ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the principle, articles and all draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: "Organization and functioning of higher education, rules on research and other provisions". Starting from yesterday's list - there are, of course, some variations that my colleagues had in the Bureau - I will mention the first five colleagues to speak. The first is Mrs. Hara Kefalidou, Mr. Kourakis, then Mr. Panayotaros follows Mrs. Anna Karamanlis and, finally, Mr. Risoulis. Mrs. Kefalidou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u2	Good morning, Mr President, and good month to all colleagues. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill, which we are discussing and which the government majority will vote very willingly, once again highlights the absolute political humiliation of the hand - by means of absolute ideological rebadism! In perfect harmony with the government's ideological pillar that in the Syrian universe the "excellent" is reciprocity, while the "independent" is an inestimable qualification, the Minister is rushing to turn the universities of the country into unfit meat makers! Gentlemen, return to the worst days of Postpopulation, shrink knowledge, lock the doors of the universities in no way and cling to the youths of our country the disastrous germs of excellence, extroversion and advancement. In order to enjoy the deadlocks that you have created with the economy and the country's position by your alchemys, in order to fuel your childish aristocratic fantasies that envision Greece as a popular democracy, with Roman student movements, militias who are caught in the hands of drug dealers operating in universities, in order that you can make Greece "Venezuelada" a special sacred war against the institutions of urban democracy. You have sworn to a constitution that you had never intended to respect, and since then you have not missed a chance to trample it in any way. Your sacred purpose justifies the means. So you did with the channels, so you did justice, then there's education now. The university space should be a field of ideas, research, education, innovation, innovation. That is where the future and tomorrow of our country is built, and we should be looking after him as the daughter of an eye instead of an ideal nursery of future party armies. During the Postmultification we made the same mistakes and wanted to believe that the overwhelming acceptance by the House of the Diamantopoulou Law would put an end to the destructive degradation spiral and allow our universities to take off and claim the place they deserve on the global academic property. Where can we imagine your impertinent, anachronistic, ideoleptic claws? The independence of institutions and the constitutional principle of separation of powers are obviously nothing to tell you, but annoying plagiarities in the pursuit of your political purposes. This is the dark framework of this draft law on anti-reformation in higher education. It comes after two years of preliminary dialogue, following a series of amendments and fragmentary provisions. He looks with a little nostalgic toward the worst aspects of the past, while he zeros out selectively what was productive and makes sure we haven't learned any lessons from our mistakes. Minister, one thing is certain: it separates us from an abysmal, arrogant divide of principles. Your bill comes from the past, admires the past and wants to resurrect all the zombies of the past. Instead of taking decisive steps forward, you stick to your repulsives. Instead of doing something good for Greece, you are burning to hand over the future of the country north to the ideological frustrations of your party audience. The quality of our education today depends largely on what Greece we will live in after twenty years. Your bill, with an absolute intention, annulls every development initiative of universities. For private universities, no reason. You don't want them on your feet, you don't want your feuds to have any competition. What if IOBE's reports and the recent study by the National Bank for Higher Education substantiate how beneficial Greece would be for the economy and the country to become an international higher education centre? You always know better! What if they anticipate revenues of 1.8 billion? every year from the attraction of foreign students and from the simultaneous limitation of Greek students' outflows? You're not nervous about that little amount of money. What if experts say that upgrading higher education can transform Greece into a knowledge-intensive economy and increase growth rate of up to 2% per year? You guys listen to this neoliberal stuff. What if they talk about GDP growth by 50 billion a year over a decade? You prefer to raise money by leasing people into taxation and the need to sign more than that, but always with a heavy heart. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, understand it: The only prospect of the universities you see is the narrow bureaucratic corsets, the fragmentation, anxiocracy, the introverticity, and ultimately the turbulence and total depreciation. You have bought your rise to power with the blood of citizens, and now you are selling the future of the country. In the draft law, there is nowhere to be found extroversion, evaluation, transparency, accountability, interconnection with growth and the economy. What is in excess is the return to the nursing pages of postmultimatization. Go out, then, and clearly tell the Greek society that you want today, in 2017, to go back to the "glorious" years of endless conventions, to the building of teachers in their offices, to the over-yearly students with a guaranteed career in the party mechanism, with lawlessness to tear up academic life and the wood against dissidents to fall cloud as long as no felony is done and life is not threatened. Is that your vision of universities? Minister, was that the good foreign universities you studied? And tell those who still listen to you and what happens to them next, when they're looking for a job, when they emigrate abroad, when they make their first tax statement. Find the courage to tell them all the work, not just the stunned advertising spot. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in front of a critical crossroads, we choose how we want our universities. I think we should all want the Greek University of Contemporary, flexible, operational and aptitude. We are therefore called upon to choose by our vote and to take the heavy responsibility from now on. And before I finish, Minister, I owe you an answer. The other day, you asked me, in general and in vaguely, what is your view in favour of teachers in undergraduate departments? You know, Minister, your government has set us a number of similar dilemmas, which have always been unspeakable after a little bit of mumbling in the taxpayer's pocket. And because, as the Prime Minister has from the outset said, "the free transport with Mr. Spirtzi's urbanity is not so free, and because I am and we are - I think - everyone in favour of being well undergraduate departments, I would suggest that you do your studies and tell us first if the bill comes out. And we, but most importantly, the taxpayers, who are resurrected in tax search for a thousand and one instalments, hang on to your lips! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u3	The first Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastasios Kourakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, Mr Secretary-General, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are discussing has to do with academic education, but above all it has an ideological political character. The key points raised by this bill are two in my view. Firstly, it is the question of democracy and as our former Minister, Nicos Paradropoulos, has said, democracy is a prerequisite for knowledge. In other words, there is a need for conditions of free dialogue, free consultation, so that knowledge can be produced. In this case we have a full application of the right and left perception. What is the right and what is the left perception? In particular, is it or is it not right-wing view that the universities should run minorities? What do I mean? The current system of electing the sawmills with a ballot and all the Vice-Presidents in it enables a small percentage of the academic community - which may be 20 and 18% - to run the university for four years in the second round, with complete control of everything and without any accountability. That in your understanding is democracy. Is it not or is it not the right backward concept that not all the institutions of the university participate in university things, that is, beyond teaching staff, students and managers? Why is that? Is it or is it not a backward conception that management councils are partly elected to pre-select the candidates? Is it or isn't it the right concept that wants teachers, private employees? In view of all this, with the current bill, the Ministry's political leadership and the government respond with a change in the way the Republican authorities are elected towards everyone's participation, as far as possible, in the administration of the university in consultation and consultation. It responds with the change in the composition of the assembly, so that all the members of the departments participate and, of course, as we have said before, representatives of students and managers. I would personally like greater participation on the part of students, but that is something that we may claim next. The government responds with the abolition of the antidemocratic management councils, which have, in any case, been discredited in the process and at the same time, set up the Academic Councils of Higher Education and Research in connection with the region and productive bodies. Even in this should be recognised the courageous act of the Minister of Education, Kostas Gavroglou, on the arrangements concerning substitute teachers and on the recognition of their equal role in the single education system, by recognising their pre-service for their wage and rating acquisition. It is a great deal of scope for this reform, and that is why it is causing the school heads a month. The second point is that the bill restores academicity, firstly, with the obligation of teachers to participate in postgraduate with low or no pay. Personally, I would not like to pay anything at all. I think it is an obligation for university teachers and an honour for them to participate in postgraduate programmes. The fact that a fine is currently coming in, I think it is going to be in a transitional period. The state's responsibility for supporting the financially weak, free postgraduate programmes is restarted - in so far as it is done - through scholarships, and above all - beware of this - with the participation of postgraduate students in student care. I think that student care, Minister, should concern us very seriously. It is obviously linked to the country's general economic situation, but this is how free education is implemented. Student care is an integral element. The fact that you are putting postgraduate students into student care, I consider that to be extremely important. Restore academicity through the provisions for the establishment and operation of postgraduate programs on academic bases rather than the market perception of operation in an inconsistent landscape. We know very well that too many postgraduate courses, which had very low operating costs, had excellent tuition fees, in response to the concept of the supply and demand market. Academia is restored with the reintroduction of academic asylum, as is provided for in the Yannaku Act. Thirdly and very importantly, in addition to democracy and the restoration of academic capacity - and few have spoken about it - I consider the start of upgrading the TEIs to stop at last the intended degradation of technological education at the third level. What was done was to make it easier to provide cheap scientific potential. However, we do not mean that as the criticism we take from the right. We're also being criticised on the left. So to my colleagues on the left, I would say: Is it insignificant to extend the reintroduction of the democratic administration of the HEIs and to fundamentalize the participation of students and administrations, which, as I said before, I would like to see been more? Is it insignificant that the drop in the continuing funding of universities since 2009 has been reversed by the current increase in the budget - little - for education? Is it insignificant that a thousand five hundred new members of the IGC and a number of facilities were given for new doctors? Is it insignificant to abolish the institutions' councils, which our partners themselves had so much opposition to their establishment and functioning? Is it indifferent that the way in which the rectoral authorities are elected, as we have said, change the bill, and that breaks the known pathogens of the past and creates terms of functional consensus and democratic legitimacy? Should we be interested in creating terms and rules for the removal of the unconscious landscape of postgraduates? Is this all insignificant? [[At this point, Mr I Vice-President's ending bell is ringing.]] Just a minute, Mr. President. Yes, to fight with all our partners to set up a front for democratic expansion of the bill and to remove its negative points, such as postgraduate, universal student care, the attraction of new scientists, the essentialization of the EIT's connection with research centres in the direction of the fair development of the regions. The New Democracy has said, through its President, many times that it will reduce the public, i.e. less state, by dismissing officials. I'd like to know, where would he do that? From tax to tax evasion? From education, as we saw with Arvanitopoulos layoffs two and a half thousand private education teachers in one night? From health, local government, from welfare structures, forest protection, etc.Huh? Is that where he's going to make less of a state? I'm hanging up with this. By analogy, the New Democracy said it would abolish the law, if and when it came to power, they arrested the entire law. I ask: does this mean that you will reset the tuition fees to the financial students? Will you abolish student participation in the multi-faceted institutions? Say it. Will you bring the mess back to postgraduate with 10,000 and 15,000 euros? Will you suspend the upgrade course of the TEIs? Are you going to bring back the "process cosmia" as well? Perhaps that would make sense, because then it will be able to be awarded to you for the excellent services you have provided and continue to offer to the public education system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, because they are starting to want all the Members of Parliament to speak, I will tell you that parliamentarians have exactly the same rights as Members. They have more obligations, not more rights. So we're going to the scorched man, as we've done without a problem. After the speech of five colleagues, a parliamentarian will speak so that the list is exhausted that the Members of Parliament have not spoken. So that means, on the basis of what I have received and from yesterday, that Mr Panayotaros, Mrs Karamanlis and Mr Risulis will speak, and immediately thereafter Mrs Vaki. Then there will be five other colleagues on the list. Then he'll talk, because he's asked that Mr. Danellis be registered in the morning. Then there will be five other speakers and anyone else who wants to talk to us. Mr. Papachristopoulos is here. I heard him and I write him to talk. In this way, the list will also be exhausted by parliamentarians. I say this because I have been asked for 'I want to speak at this hour'. This can't be done. Every five Members of Parliament will speak. Mr Panagiotaros has the floor from the People's Association - Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin, I, too, would like to comment on the great fire in Calivia Thornik, the fight against fire, volunteers, all those involved, but without the necessary means of eloquence. We have fire extinguishers that many of them don't work. We have fire-fighting planes that many of them don't work. Especially this summer we see the outdated Pedgetel trying to erase very big fires. So we wish for the best and for the fire to come out very quickly. Mr. SYRIZA's gentlemen and Mr. Squadron, Minister for Education and Religion - within many introductory languages - are we talking about a draft law on education, your student groups will issue a press release of support to the Venezuelan students who have been fighting for months against a brutal regime? Even now, you may be the only country in the world that even for the guys refuse to condemn the dozens of the dead and everything that happens in that country. You bring this draft law on 'after-markets and sectors' in order to resolve all the issues of higher education, as well as a number of amendments and multimodalities, regardless of each other once again. We have to say you're being hypocritical. What did you say yesterday and the other day, Minister? "If the motive of the good teachers is the money to leave abroad and if the only motive is the money, let the postgraduate also close." So everyone should fight and fight for the flag. That sounds good. But we have not seen you say this, especially in the last two and a half years, with the hundreds of thousands of non-governmental organisations that have invaded our homeland along with illegal immigrants and have received billions of euros, according to statements from your own ministers, who are not fighting for the jigsaw, but are eating and drinking at the expense of both refugees and illegal immigrants and against the Greek people. Why don't you also say it about the various non-governmental organisations, which, in cooperation with your Ministry, have taught the various issues about racial identities? And these, I understand, must have been paid badly by other circles. We have heard that the Left is a chapter along with religion. We also see a great one in the books, what you want to publish, and the students will have them. "So both the Church and the Left are reference points for large parts of the Greek people, from which a bold and clear statement of positions is required." These are in school books. Write a card. And why don't you write about the Right? Why don't you write about the nationalists? But here, you have devastated and silenced everything that has to do with the country. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, when the chief of education, the Minister and many of them are saying that - and they are proud of it - and followers of the neutral religious school and of the books of religion, when you are leading the abolition of morning prayer, in an artistic way, to make fun of some, with the various circulars, such as the Cycle of 2016-2017 in which the phrase'morning morning' was deleted in circular 2015-2016, then this education has no future. When the Minister responsible signs and fights for self-determination of the Macedonians as Macedonians, and at the same time you do not say a word about the Macedonian Struggle in books, when you are in every way out of the way and want to silence this fight of the Greeks to grow up and liberate our country, then this education has no future. And not forget, of course, how many times you have subscribed with dozens of SYRIZA MPs and your officials for the terrorists of 17 November and all those who have been systematically dismantling this place for decades. Education, in which your main priority, as proved last year, has been to do with it, and less with anything else - it was that the juridical identities should be taught, even to those who did not want to, have no future. And at the same time, you bring into an article in this bill the right to Muslim children, Muslim children attending schools, not to the official Muslim minority in Thrace, the days in which they will have Ramadan and one - two other big festivities to justify their absences. This, of course, is the 'cheese', along with a large number of other measures that you have taken, such as, while there are strict measures for the slaughter of animals in our home country, Muslims will be able to testify to an incredibly tortureous method, the carpeting method, to torture animals. Along with various other measures, then, which you have taken, you have been able in a very short time to have a huge and hostile population in Greece and we are sure that not far away - we are counting on one or two years, regardless of whether you or New Democracy - because Muslims will be too many across Greece with official national holidays in Ramadan, Iftar and other holidays. And we ask you: after you are cut for them, why are you not cut off for about one million Greek citizens who remain faithful to the old calendar and do not give them the right to Christmas and New Year's, two very big holidays, even with the old thirteen days after being a holiday, such as in all the Orthodox world, in Russia, Serbia, Bulgaria, Romania, in all the Orthodox countries? No, you're just a cartoon of humanists. Education, where students are justified in building teachers, not being controlled, doing nothing at all, there is no excellence, there is no control, and on the contrary the students must control the teachers, it certainly has no future. Education, according to which the students, the students, but will no longer be punished in any way, nor even the "peace conduct" has a future. Education, in which the authoritarianism of the minority - and we see this everywhere and constantly - is seen as a democracy, has no future. Education - we see that you have also brought to Articles 50-68 on the special accounts for research funds for higher education institutions, research centres and technology centres - which, instead of giving money for education, will be given to illegal immigrants, as you say, to learn to cultivate the land and various other stories - you are about to spit on us here - certainly has no future. We have heard various chips from various, from the SYRIZA rapporteur and others, about the left print, which, by the way, is the most tragic one in this place. We heard it become a great droit for the darkening times and we saw that you were in segregation with various MPs of Officerial Resistance and others, at the same time as your ministers have been appointed to revolt at universities and elsewhere, and now they sell "resistance" and resistance policy. Education, which the Deputy Minister of Education, Mr. Zouraris, in his interview a while ago, said that, well, there is nothing wrong with losing a piece of Greek land or an island, it certainly has no future. In any case, along with your amendments, as well as your amendment of shame that you are bringing into this very serious issue of education and education, and which is about the auctions, where the work is being given to a short-sighted and short-sighted man of Mr Kontonis, it is certainly not only the education but the whole place in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u7	We're moving on. Mrs Anna Karamanlis from New Democracy is called in Step. Here, Mrs Karamanlis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. The draft law under discussion concerns most of the tertiary education. If a title could come in, condensing the philosophy of the bill, it would be "return to the past". It is truly paradoxical in a country with these unemployment rates and this wave of fleeing the most qualified youth abroad is absent from a draft higher education law every reference to the essential link between universities and the production and labour market. I will dwell on some important and characteristic points of the bill, which are also indicative of government intentions. Reiterate with Article 3 the issue of academic asylum, insisting on ideologies and opinions that are both undeclared and obsolete. Unfortunately you wear your ideological caps that will not let you see the frustrating reality in its real dimensions, that the educational institutions of the country remain prey on the mountains of known minorities that are often transformed - densely into shelters and seaweeds of the 'unknown strangers'. Haven't you heard anything about homes of lawlessness in our universities? For substance use? For vandalism and decay images? One thing you say is that this morbid situation is due to the student movement, which is not as strong and as powerful as you would like. You also say that it is the police that are responsible for the disasters, and as a solution you are singing through this law, when it can intervene on its own initiative. What is the point of these abattoirs to specific groups? To record a high performance on the "left" or to satisfy your bitter party audience? So every time the known regional groups want to disembodi themselves on the public property of the university, which was built and maintained by the sweat of the consensual Greek taxpayer, they have to meet the Republican Council? Every time one hand lifts up a vagrant to destroy or launch a molotov, should the university organs be there to decide whether there is a felony justifying police intervention? Excuse me very much, but this does not indicate that your gaze is on the future of the Greek university. A provocative tolerance to violations shows, if not their cover-up, and only one of them is seriously at risk today of free expression of ideas at universities. Article 15 provides for the election of the anti-procedures in a separate ballot from that of the dean. In the name of a so-called reform the dean will not have the right to choose the vice-presidents, i.e. co-government. In fact you do not want strong rectal shapes. You urge his logic to divide and rule, with the aim of increasing your party intervention in the Republican Councils. How is good administration best served and the good functioning of the university, when in the same scheme there should be pretexts and contrasts probably with different views? At best, we will have inconsistency and worse mutual understanding. In any case, however, we will have malfunctions and stagnation for the Greek university. And I come to the subject of postgraduates, where we have another case of circumvention of the institutions' self-employed. The proposed arrangements create a suffocating framework. The Minister of Education will essentially have a say on students' fees and operating costs at each postgraduate, establishing the right to refer back to relevant decisions of the Senate. The conditions, too, for teaching in postgraduate programs are such that, not only do they encourage the instructor to participate, but rather prevent him. Even if there have been cases of arbitrariness, a mistake is not corrected by a second mistake. When each teacher must teach to another for free, have you wondered whether he will have the incentive to do so, to teach? What if he has enough time? What if he's going to do it completely in the free version just to make the obligation? This practice leads to accurately less and less quality postgraduate. And who will ultimately be the loser if fewer teachers choose to teach in postgraduate programmes? Probably the economically weakest, who with a superficial approach you say you want to support and certainly support the Greek university and the Greek labour market, who will see remarkable students go abroad and a lot of them going around there. At the same time, any extrovert windows are open to the Greek university, you are rushing to seal them. How can they develop competitive postgraduate programs and attract foreign students when they have to wait for the IODAP to identify their basic degree to get the Master's degree? But even in foreign-language undergraduate programmes, it is only a prerequisite for the International University to do so. And to give an example from the field of sport, Minister. Let's say that he wants an institution to create a qualified undergraduate programme for sports management and, in particular, for the preparation and conduct of global sports events, a section which, combined with being held in the Olympic Valley, could bring international interest. Should it be organised through the International University? With what expertise and with what experience? In fact, you are putting bureaucratic stumbling blocks and you say that they are not going to happen, because you know and know that the International University neither has the specialities it needs to support a qualified undergraduate programme and you are imposing on institutions introverting and stagnation. Remove institution councils. For the eyes of the world you create in place the Academic Councils of Higher Education in each administrative district. And since the Minister told the committee that no one's boards defended them, implying that they failed, I would remind you that the institutions' councils have condemned them to slow death for too long with their systematic depreciation and deforestation of important responsibilities, which has also led to the resignations of leading Greek academic and presidential councils, who have been distinguished abroad and have wanted to offer their services to the education of their country. Those, obviously, you don't want them at the Greek university. To sum up, ladies and gentlemen, the bill is characterised by a blind party of interest. The government's attempt to increase its influence and intervention in higher education is predominant. The Government is trying to balance between the most painful memorial measures in recent years and policies surrounding it with a progressive cloak to prove its left. Her trouble is in vain! Policies condemning our education in the backwards not only will not bring it party benefits, but on the contrary will speed up its curse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u9	The first five minutes are completed with my colleague, Mr. Andreas Rizzoulis, whom I call on the Step and then Mrs. Vaki will take the floor. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. The controversy, as both the committee and yesterday, and today, beyond the individual issues and objections of the Opposition on the bill, in fact - other speakers from SYRIZA have said - has to do with separating the two worlds. The one world who is it? It is clearly expressed in many respects and not just on one side of the House. It is the world of neoliberal perception of the structure of society and the economy. Without saying big words, what does the bill do with simple words? The bill, in simple terms, which is the other side, is trying to organise higher education based on democracy and equal opportunities for all. These are the two worlds. The arrows of counter-population focused mainly on two issues: postgraduate and university asylum. Concepts and pressures were expressed for postgraduate subjects, which actually lead to the indirect privatisation of higher education. Has it been supported, that is, what immediately and clearly? Free pricing of postgraduate and unlimited receipts, in a purely market perception. It is a logic that also wants education, as in other areas of society, and in particular what we call a public sphere, privatisation, a means of enrichment, of course, without regard to the low economic levels of students and their families, with a differentiation, which takes us not in 1980, which they say we are going with the bill, but in the 1950s. Adonis Georgiadis said so. He talked about scholarships, that of course there must be scholarships, but not about the logic of the bill, but about the logic of the 1950s, where those who have paid - and some countries have implemented it - from the placard down, from those who cannot, the financially powerless, sting two - to show that they all have potential in a system. Of course, education in this sense is not a social asset and a right, but according to the neoliberal concept - and that is what they do with their proposals and positions - it is a transaction product. The students in this logic are baptized "customers" and the "product" education offered to customers and those who have the financial potential purchase their strength according to that. And since we have to start somewhere and we cannot do it now, since we are not government, we must at least force them to become a siege ram to privatize education. That is, of course, progress is being made, and the other one, which we do not call what the other is, is called regression. Some people call it, and I'll say what they called it. The protection of public space and the possibility of everyone having access to public goods is regressive. It is not by chance that they continue to identify themselves with the extremists of the institutions in what is generally called reforms and especially - but they do not call it - the abolition of public goods. I wanted to say this because it is nice: there is a argument these days that "the previous bill was passed with two hundred and fifty-five votes, and you now have a hundred and fifty-three to abolish this," as if the bills are a sporting record, which we must exaggerate! That is why we must also increase the number of Members, because something has to be done, and one has to beat the other. The fact that you are not two hundred fifty five today and you are a hundred is about the policies that you have implemented in education. And tens of thousands of students, students and parents gave you what they had to. That's why you're not even a hundred in here today. Also, the other thing called 'once we get out, we'll abolish the law', that they'll win in the next election. First, let's wait to see the next elections and what laws you're going to abolish. With this, that you will abolish the law, who are you threatening? The SYRIZA MPs here are threatening? The teachers you've been expelled and you're going to expel them again, expanding your logic to the things that have been done in the past? Are you afraid of students? The people who won't have to pay their graduates are afraid of them? Fear them! And be careful, now, the whole debate is that 'you are not left.' Mr. Theocharopoulos, to show that we are not Left, read what the Kyrikos said in 2010 about asylum and after the Cypriots said this, we are not Left. Where is Mr. Theocharopoulos placed? Listening to Mrs. Kefalidou's position...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u11	Don't make personal reports, or we'll have a personal matter. You don't have to.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u12	It's okay, I didn't say anything. He said we're not left, Mr. Theocharopoulos. Be careful, Mr Constantopoulos - I will say - which is the rapporteur for what he has said and a combination of what he has done: It starts with the major changes which PASOK has brought to education in 1982 and 1983, passes the whole period of PASOK, through modernisation reaches Diamantopoulou, and this complements the major changes. Mrs Kefalidou said earlier that we want to restore the "zombies" of post-multiplatism, the major changes that they brought back at the time and abolished the law of Diamantopoulou. It is a logic that the New Democracy adopts, that we are supposedly going back to that period, which is perceptible, Soviet and totalitarian, as we are accused of. Now there must be a consensus in the Democratic Alliance and in the New Democracy, because we really see, Mr Constantopoulos, some differentiations between you. I do not care, of course, why there are differences. And I will say to Mr Fortsaki that yesterday he said - and he is the only one on all sides of the counter-population that said it - 'I am in favour of public and free education, which unfortunately we cannot have today'. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I conclude with this, Mr President, and I am almost in my time: Right-wing and Right-wing critics say that 'loves we have free education'. I don't care about the far right, I don't want to bother. They said that "there is no free education in Greece. Do we not pay in elementary school, in high school for instruction and so on?" And, obviously, we said no? Did we say that it was all pomegranate in education and that it was where we wanted things to be? It's not a pussy in education. And that is why, with previous bills on primary education, we are trying to lay such foundations so that at some point this rhetoric education and education in Greece can be provided free of charge. However, we do not do so as critical observers of the facts. We were given the opportunity, the opportunity to do so from within. This has backings, there's wins. Observers, however, will not stay in this process. We'll fight it all the way. And as far as the next elections are concerned - to close with this - which will abolish the bill, let them take it first and then abolish it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, until Mrs Fotini Vaki comes up in Step, which I call for, I read out the next five of my colleagues to see those who are not in the Chamber: Mr Maniatis, Mr Sevastakis, Mr Mandas, Mrs Readstopoulou and Mrs Katsavria. Here, Mrs. Vakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. I would ask that the time of my dentistry should also be included.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u15	Leave it, my colleague. You can't do that. Today we have sixty-five speakers. If there is a possibility, you'll have a small tolerance, just like everyone else.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u16	All right, Mr. President. No problem. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a time-consuming term that accompanies education and becomes the 'cross bed' that the individual adapts to his measures. For friends, it is the godly desire or spell that persecutes for one and the enemies, damn it. I am referring, of course, to the term'reform'. Do the EITs need reform at the moment? If so, in what direction? If tertiary education really needs a brave reform rather than an ornamental or lifting, which will cover diligently her old age, then this will consist of this bill on the association and not of two more terms, 'democracy' and 'academicity'. Democratisation is not contrary to academicity, but to its constituent element and not without a condition. I'm speeding up some antipopulation patterns. For you, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, every piece of legislation that democratises education annulls academicity. Any democratic control, accountability and participation in higher education institutions make democracy richer and poorer in academic life. I recall some of your extremisms dating back to 2015: "Participation", "Frequency", "terrorism of minority groups in universities", "regression completely from us, the remnants of post-population, who want to put balls in education" and so on, are some of your cries that substitute for - I fear - arguments because we have not listened to arguments and positions. Your ideas vented them. And signs of the neoliberal crusade of excellence, which is synonymous with privatization, are the no-go return of the administration to universities, which was established by the then transfer of European traditions and institutions, the spirit and the temporal wind of May '68, which in our homeland was too late to blow, asphyxiation of the junta gar and of the "growth" of Papadopoulos and Patakos, which some of you still praised in this Chamber. Another mistake that ruins the neoliberal melody of excellence is the academic asylum, which was also discussed and institutionalised after the junta with fresh memories of heroic uprisings of law and the Polytechnic, which recently diligently circumvent some theoretical practices interpreting the junta as a short break that contributed to industrialisation and the civilization of the place, in order to throw away, of course, in the dump of the history of Postmulsion. I am saying these because the most resistant law, as it has been proved, has been identified with the Postpopulation, which is most brutally swaying by closing the eye on extreme right stereotypes coming out of grim times, equating the Left with uterus of violence, with terrorism and an enemy of freedom. So let us make the account: Forty years of life, Law No 1268/1982 and Law No Diamantopoulou, which has been introduced to demolished the last remnants of postmulsion. Good. And what happened? The Diamantopoulou Act has transformed - or has it distorted? - the Arvanitopoulos Act, to cure huge legal gaps with bad amendments, circulars, presidential decrees, new legislation. The result was not to solve the malfunctions but to intensify, thus becoming a necro-liberal law, a zombie law, a Frankenstein law, literally, which was now hostile, not to its creators but to those who had the misfortune to operate within it. The great names of abroad, which you call on uninterruptedly, that have been called upon to civilise us barbaric, unscrupulous and corrupt academics - who insult, ladies and gentlemen, those who serve these universities with zeal and self-determination - have kept them up in difficult times! - So the names of the 'gods' machine became awkward observers of an open landscape. The immunity of the administrative authorities was curtailed by the institutions, which went on the path of excellence, hidden in institutions that were unable to cover their operating expenses and limited to a single role: the pre-selection of the Presidents on the basis of social and political opinions and no academic criteria. This, then, peculiar hybrid of micromultiple and neo-colonialism has nevertheless been established to cure a real problem. Yes, it is true that Law No 1268/82, although it exacerbated the HEIs, by converting them from universities to universities in the community, to universities in all the groups that are part of it, it has sometimes been applied distortively. Yes, sometimes the self-employed became miserable and the involvement and transaction between party actors and candidates for administrative posts. We will remember that sad history of transactions involving the integration of students into the "professional" of the postgraduate programs of the University of Crete in 2005, which was brought to the surface by the late Stelios Alexandropoulos. Of course, I do not remember those left-wing minorities who are so passionately meddling, some other parties I remember, but in any case. So two lessons can be learnt from the laws I mentioned: On the law of Diamantopoulou, I think the lesson we have learned is that, while it was voted for by two hundred and fifty-five MPs, it lacked a legal basis and consensus in society and the academic community. Legal power is not always the same as legal correctness. As regards the previous law, Law No 1268/82, I consider that the abusive application of a law does not irresponsibly annul the spirit of the legislator. The malnutrition is not healed by vertical hierarchical structures, which decide for the community in its absentia, but with more democracy, which means that the institution decides for itself. So we welcome the reintroduction of the convening as a central decision-making body and its representation by the community, including students who are excluded from the elections of the single-faced institutions, but who must speak about the functioning of a community of which they are an integral part. In this respect, I urge you, colleagues of the counter-population, to reflect on some of your obsessions. Oxymos First: How can young scientists differ, either in their postgraduate or in jobs abroad, and come from disgusting universities operating as iniquities of lawlessness and made up of phenomena of academics? Oxymos second: In any case, what is the Greek student's physiognomy? Restlessness and segregation, a left-handed always for you - sheep, when we have to decide whether to have a voice in its foundation, or the chosen scientist who has driven away from the "hearted" home of the crisis abroad, when we refer to Brain Drain, which, incidentally, this ideological government has been forced to regain as much as it can with a thousand new ICP members, with five hundred ICPs that come, with the re-energisation of the IKY, which you had died almost, and the Hellenic Research and Innovation Foundation, which gives academic roof and a protected institutional framework to young researchers, in order not to be caught up, not to become deliveryboys of the company or, worse, develerets of research, wandering educational programs that run out of their business and not to results. The bill attempts to restore both the lost value of democracy and academicity, which means university with rules to which we obey not because we are being imposed on us, but because we are configured and consented. But it also creates conditions of extrovert, through the new councils, based in the connection, in the promotion of a single research and science area with the region and society, in synergy, in the interaction of a university which is neither the airbornely closed university of the only researcher nor a market and manipulated in business interests. It is a university open to the region's productive and cultural institutions and levers of productive and intellectual theoretical reconstruction. I enter the slippery field of postgraduate, as far as the salaries of teachers and tuition are concerned. Academic neoliberal capitalism is now a global phenomenon with side losses of students, especially Anglo-American, on the limits of despair with red student loans that have become a huge bubble ready to explode. You, after all, should be aware that highly postgraduate in the European North is available free of charge. You also know that the National Metsovio Polytechnic, except for men of lawlessness and infraction, is in the 200 best institutions of the world, and with many postgraduate degrees for free. So in academic neoliberalism the bill opposes the academic morality imposed not only by the constitutional fundamental principle of public and free education, but also by the conscience of our academic mission and function to provide education and not services. The teacher's purpose is to make his student richer, not his pocket. If, then, something also found me contrary to the law, it is pay and tuition. However, and because the adequacy of its historical and social realm, let us look at the other aspect. In the absence of a strong social and welfare state and with the withdrawal, unfortunately, in recent years of the state's funding of education, this bill is called upon to balance between the fiscal crisis, which has damaged education and free access of students, placing a brake on immunity and the rewards of teachers and teachers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I request your tolerance for two minutes, Mr President. I'm done. The free teaching of postgraduate in the relevant department and academic institution is absolutely correct. The ceiling of 20% of the monthly salary for an additional postgraduate degree in another institution, first of all, is also dictated by the legitimate aim of giving academic accommodation and a small income to unemployed doctors. However, it is also required by the humiliating wages of the university students who have suffered cuts in recent years and who have been unable to cope with their academic work since they have been forced to work. This, unfortunately, also applies to the free access of 30% of students, on the basis of their median income, in order to be referred to the principle of non-exclusion on the basis of economic criteria and to become viable postgraduate diplomas that applied rules and did not see the crisis as a privileged field of unfair enrichment. I'm hanging up with the sanctuary. Apart from a heavy historical heritage condensing struggles and anguish for education and democracy, which prevents us from eliminating its monumental traces, asylum also plays another important role, which my colleague Mr. Paradropoulos has emphasised in committee: it is the magic of the morality of free dialogue that creates the consents and peace of the academic community and is the foundation of a democratic process. The argument that asylum should be lifted, for you, is infringibility. Infringibility, however, exists with asylum and without asylum and has been strengthened, because it is a social phenomenon and it is not being dealt with unilaterally and with repression. In this legislation asylum is strictly defined and excluded from the conception of malicious acts, crimes against life, and for crimes the Republican Council decides. So what's left? Student mobilisations, i.e. public, non-violent, protest expressions. And that is your problem, colleagues of counter-population. And here, then, their resolution is being resolved through the ethos of academic dialogue and the understanding of the members of the academic community. If the police invaded, who wisely refused to do so many times, then not only will there be even greater physical violence, blood spilled, said Mr. Paradoxopoulos, but will irreparably be injured what makes the community worth its name, its moral dialogue. Respect and rules are inspired, and we are therefore not imposing the classifying of pupils' conduct on the basis of an infamousness and a climax of youth, a class of life and personality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u17	We continue with Mr Ioannis Maniotis from the Democratic Reconciliation. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative just arrived at us about the lost value of democracy. Madam President, I would like you to take care of the price already lost on your resignation, which is tabling an amendment that promotes the electronic auctioning of first homes to poor and medium-sized households and that your Minister for Justice who signs it has not yet dared to come to Parliament to defend it. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] For this price to care and care for the households, which, when you go to your villages, when we're all going to our villages in the summer, will ask you where the slogan "no house in the hands of a banker" went. Please, for the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above amendment, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let the amendment on electronic auctions of the first residence of poor and medium-sized households, which we as Democratic Comparison commit to reintroducing the previous protection regime, as was the case until December 2014, the PASOK law, the Katseli law. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Minister of Education, I must tell you that I am an active university and in the semester that ended I graduated from my students, as you know, in a closed dossier and everything went calmly and normally. In the winter semester, I will teach the lesson of Digital Entrepreneurship. I hope it's not considered a retina that I'm going to teach the lesson of Digital Entrepreneurship at the University of Piraeus. I hope they let me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u19	Who said that? Who's gonna let you know?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u20	To come back to us, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is the lyric of a stone, which determines what a progressive parade means and what it means to be degressive, conservative and backward. Just because this bill incorporates all the diseases of a past period, that is why we are hard and vertically opposed to the return in thirty years behind the Greek university. My colleagues, our rapporteur Dimitris Konstantopoulos, Hara Kefalidou, all the colleagues who spoke earlier than I, told you the important issues. They told you, for example, about asylum. Well, is there any of you, ladies and gentlemen, proud to go to the amphitheatre of law, or to go outside the pavement or the vast space of the Economic University, or to go down to Stournari, outside of Metsovio, across the building of Gine, to see spread outfits? Are you proud of this situation? Or are you proud that, with the bill, we bring back all the bad practices, the bad practices of association with party parties that have become a transaction with the ongoing teachers or the current judge and vote before and counteract? Minister, I would like to ask you for a favor. I want you to find me a provision of your bill, one that supports this great anxiety of the Greek families when they send their children to study, learn letters to the Greek universities. Why are we sending our children to learn letters? To find a good job. And how will they find a good job? When they're well qualified, and when the economy is giving birth to jobs. Find me, then, a provision of the bill, which has the words 'increasing jobs, supporting and developing the national economy, creating new national wealth'. Because if there is no - and there is no - it means that the universities in Greece do not treat them the way they should be treated, that is, as a new source of national wealth, but we are dealing with them with the idealism and ideas that some have once had. Listen to what is the most powerful part of Greek society: Fifteen thousand academic teachers are serving today at Greek universities, over twenty thousand postgraduate students and over three hundred thousand undergraduate students, i.e., three hundred fifty thousand strong, mature, creative Greeks, who lead to the abyss, deadlock and not finding work. The most powerful part of Greek society, which could create the Greece of tomorrow, Greece that goes beyond the crisis, this dynamic part instead of giving it hope and perspective, you drive it back. Not a single word about how this part of society can be used in a country that wants to overcome the memoirs. The Bank of Greece said it very well, in a clear way. My colleague, Mrs. Hara Kefalidou, mentioned them. Can Greece become an international centre of higher education? Yeah. How much money will they get into the national economy? About 1.8 billion euros a year. Can higher education be upgraded to support the national economy? Yeah. And how much will the Gross Domestic Product grow? It'll increase 2%. And how much money will the national economy have? It will have EUR 50 billion over a decade. Is this money, colleagues of SYRIZA, you're spared? Don't we need them? You don't want them?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u21	Easy, ladies. Don't do personal reports now from a microphone. Calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u22	Don't bother. Easy. Calm down. I will only give you one example: the Athens School of Philosophy. What is bothering, ladies and gentlemen, that the Athens School of Philosophy should set up a foreign-language extended programme with tuition for foreigners on issues of Greek philosophy centred on Plato? And what prevents a foreign language postgraduate program from being created at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki with a tuition for foreigners on issues of Greek philosophy centred on Aristotle? Do you have any doubts that thousands of Chinese, Japanese, American, Europeans will come to watch and create a powerful lobby of support for Greece? We don't want these postgraduates? No, the current government, the current ministry, does not want it to be under the auspices of and with the support of the International University. Ladies and gentlemen, we are fighting and dreaming of another university, a liberated from the prisons of state university, a competitive university that is not afraid of either the best private or the best foreign public universities. We are fighting for a public university that is liberalized and competitive. And all of us, who are serving at the public university, will give our best powers to upgrade a university that began to exist with Law 4009/2011; the PASOK law, the Diamantopoulou law - and which we commit to continue in the same direction as the liberation, modernisation and competitiveness of the public, strong, Greek university. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u23	We shall proceed, ladies and gentlemen. Next is Mr. Sevastakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u24	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u25	Before I give you the floor, Mr Sevastakis, the Minister has asked for the floor. [[Noise from the Wing of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR]] Mr. Maniot, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u26	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u27	No, you're not allowed, Mr. Barca. It is not allowed because those who have just come to the Chamber are beginning to be alarmed. They've been quiet since the morning. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to make it clear that I have no problem with any political controversy. I feel that some who call for the sense of the National Bank and IOBE have not read the report and reports. Of course, these reports - one of them says so - are very clear in themselves - are also in favour of undergraduate teachers. And I ask you again: are you in favour of teachers at the undergraduate in public universities?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u29	Answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u30	No, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u31	Don't be angry. [[Noise from the Wing of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR]] Nothing seems to be obvious in this Chamber, which is why we are making it clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u32	Your Greeks are excellent, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u33	Mrs. Kefalidou, it was a "Church" when you were talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u34	I am therefore pleased that the Democratic Partnership, at least, is not in favour of teachers in public universities.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u35	Undergraduate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u36	Undergraduate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u37	We don't have to apologize to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u38	Oh, you don't have to apologize!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, why are you protesting now? When Mr Maniotis spoke and he was interrupted by two colleagues, I intervened. Do not interrupt the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u40	I am trying to ask a simple question and it seems that the answer cannot be given. Is the Democratic Association for Public University Without Degrees in Degrees?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u41	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u42	Calm down, ladies and gentlemen. Have you finished, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u43	No, I have... [[Noise from the Wing of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR]] So, I get it...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u44	No, you don't understand. I will give the floor for two minutes to the Parliamentary Representative of Democratic Independence and answer your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u45	I realized that the answer is yes, probably not, possibly.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u46	All right, let them express themselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u47	Calm down! [[Noise from the Wing of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR]] Do not record anything in the Minutes at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u48	...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u49	Mrs. Christophilopoulou, you are an old colleague. What are these things? Minister, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u50	I'm trying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u51	Yeah, but you asked the same question three times.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u52	But you know, Mr President, that questions must be answered clearly.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u53	You will receive a clear answer as soon as you sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u54	So I'm going on with the...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u55	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u56	Now, we're coming, Mr. Constantopoulos, don't rush.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u57	Don't make personal reports, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u58	With Mr. Constantopoulos, I think it's no big deal. Postgraduate. There are still foreign languages. Undergraduate. We talked about it yesterday. Our patience is really exhausted. We'll never talk about it again. Read the law. However, do not disguise yourself because I asked you another question, to which you are not answering. There are no curricula leading to a degree. There are sections that have programs that lead to a degree. And I ask: what do you say to the thousands of Japanese - it seems that you have contacts that we do not have - to the thousands of Chinese and to the thousands of Americans trying to come to our place and we have locked the doors, because we are obsessed, introverters etc., when they ask the very simple "Where, guys, will we get degrees?" And if we come and get degrees, will we be able to go to another university? Note the answer, in order not to commit to anti-constitutional things, to issues that are European...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u59	Finish, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u60	So what do we say? We say that since the international university gives this possibility, there should be cooperation with the international university. Also, lessons in foreign languages in choice. Third, postgraduate courses. Do not insist on a metaphysics, which underestimates us as a country, that the Chinese will come here and save Greece and its universities. Please! The Chinese are serious people. Please do not degrade the debate at this level. Read the law and, in particular, the reports you refer to - the National Bank and the IOBE - before you come and say things that don't apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u61	Mr Theoharopoulos, you have the floor as Parliamentary spokesman for three minutes for the two very specific questions raised by the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u62	Minister, I was surprised to see you use the tactic that the best defense is the attack. It does not explain otherwise, because you deceive and continue to deceive all Members of Parliament and yesterday's report that they would have been cut off by the teachers. You speak here today, as if you are in a lecture and in your own way you are trying to translate parties positions of opposition. So let me tell you clearly the position of the Democratic Alliance. The Democratic Partnership has made it clear that for the first cycle of study in a general context, no tuition is needed. There must be no tuition fees, Mr. Gavroglou. What we have said and made clear is, however, that it needs regulation for foreign-language undergraduate departments, without undermining it, as you do by putting the International University through. The issue of the creation of foreign-language undergraduate is important. Don't underestimate it. Because these reports to Chinese are underestimating it. They underestimate the country's ability to have internationalised logic. Take advantage of high academic staff and high staff in students. Of course, the European market recognises the high level of scientists we are producing, what you did not recognize a moment ago. The Greek public university, therefore, could become our main export industry, creating foreign-language curriculum, with flexibility, not with bureaucratic knots, with evaluation and study of all the data. In postgraduate studies, finally, we are clearly in favour of the regulation of the landscape. In postgraduate studies, of course, they need - and I told you yesterday - provisions for low incomes are also needed, that is, exemptions for low incomes and grants, however, linked to economic, social and academic criteria. But postgraduate without even being allowed by law tuition is another populism.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u63	But don't they exist?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u64	Second cycle of study without tuition is a new populism, the populism of SYRIZA, which now comes as populism in the government, not as populism in Acoustic Opposition. No more populism! We will not allow any more populist logic, which has nothing to do with reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u65	Lacquism that there are graduates without tuition?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u66	Bravo to DMAR! This is the Democratic Left!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u67	Mr President, please speak for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u68	Minister, excuse me, but if we go like this, we will never finish. You keep notes of your observations and in your dentistry you will answer. If for something a Vice-Population MP says, you are disturbed and you want to intervene, we will not finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u69	I'm not bothering you. I ask the floor for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u70	Minister, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u71	I am really glad, because it was made clear that you do not need a tuition at the undergraduate in public universities. Secondly, can you please explain to me who will give and what kind of degree he'll give? That's what I asked you to tell me. Who and what kind of a foreignlanguage degree?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u72	It should be recorded in the Minutes. The departments give them the degrees.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u73	Okay. We have ended the controversy, the exchange of views between the two. The Secretary of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Koutsoubas, has asked for the floor, which I call for him to come to Stepma. Mr. Kutsuba, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear in this bill that higher education, education as a whole, is subject to the government's strategic objective but also to the other parties to serve in all ways and all the means of the great chapter. After all, you have announced to a supreme judge of your policy the markets, the rating houses, that is, the interests of business groups, and you certainly get a very good degree, since in these two and a half years you have loaded two more memoirs, dozens of anti-linguistic laws, bloody surpluses and commitments by 2060. You have done the same in recent days, on the occasion of the trialogue on the markets and the fair you have set up with the assistance of representatives of the European Union and other international organisations, a fair provocative to a people on their knees, to a people who say that they must continue the 'bicycle', to use Mr Moskovsi's expression. So the crucial question that the Greek people must answer is this: by returning to markets and regularity, as you say, we will abolish the six hundred more memorandum laws plus those of the others who come under the third assessment. Will the measures adopted by the Government be frozen for 2019, 2020? I am referring also to the reduction of duty-free allowances and the pension cuts that are measures for the period when we will be in development during Mr Tsipras. Will the primary bleeding surpluses not apply until 2060 or the committee, which is compulsory for all Member States of the European Union through European semesters and budgetary pacts? Obviously not. All this will be true, because all this is the prerequisite for market confidence. As for your pursuit to sell social sensitivity, this does not only convince anyone, it is not only crushed under the cruel reality that the people live and will continue to live, but it is also a proof of the desperate effort to diversify yourself with the former governments of the New Democracy and PASOK, with whom you are now looking like two drops of water. And the more you look, the more you look like, the more you identify, in the critical, strategic issues, the more the confrontation between you will be for the individual, the management, the "Ruvikon" for example, for Varoufakis, for the examinations, about what happened in 2015 and he goes on to say. Speaking of which, and because there is a lot of talk lately, all these revelations and political thrillers and Mr. Varoufakis have done is to maintain this disorientative bipartial fight. And it is a convenient fight for the New Democracy, to remind SYRIZA's past at a time when SYRIZA has become the best friend of capital and market system and on the other hand, it also suits SYRIZA to constantly reheat the fairy tale of the harsh negotiation and battle he gave. If they have any interest, and if they show anything, these revelations are the terrible game that was played in the backs of the Greek people, as well as how dominated circles of the European Union, the system in general, other centres such as the United States, valued SYRIZA and Varoufakis and their false radicalism, to continue the policy of the memorials, the anti-grass measures that New Democracy and the PASOK did not have to complete, or on the other hand, if they wanted to blackmail and enforce Greece's Souble exit plan from the Eurozone, where the marble would pay for it again, of course, the Greek people and won again would be part of the capital. Because it is of course another thing for the people to choose to leave the Eurozone, from the European Union, while at the same time claiming to pass on the keys to the economy and power, and it is another way to withdraw, as a choice of parts of the capital or strong imperialist centres. Consequently neither Plan B nor Mr Varoufakis' Plan X for a parallel currency nor the policy implemented today by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government have any element of politeness. Activating the system and the monopolistic groups are all of them, so the people constantly turn their backs while they are uncovered with all this game that has been played and continue to play at its expense. Ladies and gentlemen, a lot of discussion has taken place over the last few days, whether the draft law on higher education is ideological, backward, or whether it cancels the reforms of the previous governments. Of course, the Minister for Education also has a right to protest when the Members of the other urban parties characterise this bill as obsessive. The Government is simply making use of the criticism of the New Democracy, which seeks even faster adaptation to the needs of the market, to hide that care and the current government is how it will go a step further than the previous governments, of course on the same path, which sees higher education as an important role only to increase the profitability of the few. Of course, no matter how much we searched, we couldn't find anything seriously new in the bill. Is something new about strengthening the presence of businesses and their executives in the institutions? Is it something new, trying to categorize studies and graduates? Are the postgraduate tuition new? Is it new to try to work more effectively on the "black box" of the business function of the institutions called PPE? None of the provisions of the bill are new. Many of the provisions of this bill have been voted in the past by the Members of the other parties since they were literally or even in their spirits and in previous PASOK and New Democracy bills on higher education, such as the Giannakou and Diamantopoulou laws, but also in a series of other smaller or larger legislations. So let's not be unfair. The Government of SYRIZA - ANEL will have to say that, for its days, it is attempting to open up HEIs in the promising foreign-language market that one-year and two-year curricula are being established, creating multi-speed degrees, and that, for the first time, the introduction of HIs into the large market of post-training. It is clear from the above that the confrontation between the other parties and for this bill, is far from the needs of the students, far from the real people's interests. After all, a single arrow in about seventy pages of the bill is not about the needs of the students of the people's families, who are close to studying their children, young scientists who find the institutions' doors and the cannons of public funding closed, to university teachers who do not want to be sold out in business interests. The substance is: Unlike the sermons of public free education and democracy, it is a bill that gives real asylum to the business function of the institutions and seeks to give significant benefits only to businesses. That's not all we say. The Ministry also stresses this in the impact report accompanying the bill. But if that's the way things are, then what's coming to solve this bill? The answer, in our view, is clear. On the one hand, it seeks to formulate a framework which favours the most effective submission of the institutions' work on the protagonists and the objectives of capital, and on the other hand, it comes to give the special time for the priorities promoted by the SYRIZA for capitalist development, the integration of the institutions in this context. The reason why it emerges from the provisions of the bill itself. This may be the first time that, in a higher education bill, there are so many different cases of tuition, so many different cases of cooperation between institutions with capitalist enterprises and their managers, so many references are made to workers without fixed work, without rights. This is perhaps the first time that in a draft law on higher education, it has been mentioned so many times for the time being that the finances of universities and research are becoming abundant to budgetary commitments, debt servicing, old and new memoirs. On this basis, it is worth going back to the debate on what one considers retrograde and what modern ones. We see what wealth workers can produce by making use of the possibilities offered by the development of science, technology, that is, those made by the hands and minds of the previous generations. We see the productive forces which are being wasted unreasonably on the unreasonable competition of the capitalists, the possibilities that are not real, because the impeccable law of profit puts brakes on. We see that it is not a backwards thing to think that the future for the majority of today's students should not be the passage from unemployment to unpaid work after myriad labors and sacrifices of their own and their own families, but believe that in the development project of one party or another, the priorities of one or another part of big capital are realistically placed on their dreams, their lives as they deserve. In our view, backwardness is the current reality, which all parties in one way or another defend where science with the current levels of growth of suffocation within the current socio-economic system. Its own development is intensified by the need to abolish capitalist production relationships. Because every day it confirms that the knowledge of both natural sciences and their technology is enough to solve all the major problems of social life. However, the capital that faces science as a direct source for its enrichment of the perpetuation of its sovereignty can only capture it. She can only underestimate science and with her to underestimate all those who serve her, first of all scientists, university teachers, researchers, tomorrow’s scientists, students. Furthermore, the science used for the war, in order to increase unemployment, poverty, exploitation, ultimately immortality, can only be understood as a foreign and hostile force for workers. So the most important condition for science to gain the role it deserves in society is that it strengthens the economic and political power of the few that it is currently serving, that science rises the material and spiritual level of the whole of our people and that of its development rather than the gain of general prosperity. In short, it is the replacement of today's social reality by a new reality and that is just socialist. Only so will science be able to reveal its enormous potential to improve human life to its full extent and exploit to the full any scope for its development and implementation. It is no coincidence that even the sworn opponents of socialism are forced to recognize the uplifting level of workers from the former socialist countries and the high level of their universities. Because in a society in an economy where the criterion of economic development is not the maximisation of profit but the maximisation of social progress, there are neither scientists who have surpluses nor scientists that are unnecessary. There are hundreds of things for which their contribution is valuable and necessary. If we are seeking, for example, to improve the health of the people, we should manipulate with the basic skills of all the provincial health centres, ensure doctors even in the last village, develop preventive medicine. So we need more doctors. We need more commentators, working doctors, a series of specialties that today's development - capitalist - marginalizes, while, at the same time, the urban propaganda, your propaganda, is unreservedly blocking the arguments for their so-called super-planning, while there are huge deficiencies, at the moment we are talking about, in all hospitals, in all health structures. If we want to shield our country from earthquakes, we need a much larger number of engineers, who will be recruited to undertake the task of controlling, strengthening all buildings, at least mass meeting, such as factories, large businesses, schools, entertainment rooms - especially youth - and so on. If we want to change the cities - monsters to human beings, we need more experts in the field of spatial planning and town planning. If we really want our education to shape rather than deform people, the teachers in the yearbook, for example, are not enough. If we want to make use of our country's mineral wealth, we need to establish other medal schools, other specialties, and not to discuss changing the subject of their current graduates. We must hire not to fire workers, such as LARCO or elsewhere. More generally, if we seek to exploit all the productive potential of the country, we need a large number of educated techniques, workers who will undertake the development and implementation of technology in production. As for neglected social sciences, they must finally become genuine social and have a more important role through their cooperation and with other sciences to ensure a progressive social control of overall social activity. In short, only in the planned, popular-planned economy, the current, mutated, picture of social needs, which capitalism is constantly cultivating, of course, on the basis of its interests, can gain its right dimension. And our country has all the productive powers and above all the most basic, most experienced and best-educated working class, a numerous and skilled scientific force. From this point of view, therefore, it is clear that our criticism is directed at different points, from what other parties choose to show as controversy. So don't expect the consensus calls to find the recipients of the JRC. We are not only rejecting and voting against the bill, but we are calling in particular on the workers, institutions, university teachers, students, young scientists, in collapsing, in a common struggle, to completely overthrow the policy that ties up science, the prospects, the studies of young people in the interests of capital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u75	I apologize to him for apologising for having stopped him twice, Mr Sevastakis. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u76	Thank you very much. It is good for me or rather helpful that I go to the Step after Mr. Koutsuba's interesting position. The debate that has been unfolded is a debate on contingencies, which inevitably leads to manicism. Regression and progression. Manicheisms, in fact, are trying to manage a fundamental problem that our education, our system and the folk demand for education have. I'll say below which I think that's it. I have heard both worlds express themselves too many times. What are the two worlds? And how can we not be faced with problems with elementary intimacy? Let us see that for many years our country, having a financially high level, Mr Bourras, colleague, has invested in education structures. And this investment confused a popular desire to learn letters. "Lear my child letters" as a tool for social elevation. But education - this huge capital that was embedded in the average, citizens of the highest educational and mental level have been made in the years since the 1970s and then - either remained enclaved, has not been assimilated to production. Whether it was used for the production of skilled specialists who sent professional categories, but the diffuse education as a good, the inventing tools, the reconversion tools, the tools of productive reorientation, this diffuse culture set up above education, that remained unexploited. And this source, this great cognitive source, we haven't exploited it or assimilated it. The new active education, education related to exceptional popular invention, the one that has been lost in previous years with the eclipse of production, with productive decline, is a question. And the system that will be found to organise it in education will be the successful system. Instead, we have insults, we have conflicts offensive, conflicts of competence. I think it's a dead-end choice, a dead-end battlefield. A fundamental problem, which shows that the famous two worlds are not two, is one and related to the economic downturn, is that of using 300 million to finance higher education and the sum has fallen to 90 million. How is this contradiction solved, this weakness that in a country that has ordered, formed, set up, financed, organized structures, teaching staff and, above all, a popular expectation for the highest, today does not have the capacity to finance it? So we're shifting the contradiction. Another says that all education should be privatised - Mr. Georgiadis said that - by taking students who do not enter the pan-Hellenic test and who, as he says, give their money in Istanbul. I mean, we're able to find a training funder. I think that the unscrupulous and broadly unanswered will not answer the problem. Another says that we need to make a cost reduction, a impairment of requirements, a compression on the edges of the antiproductive misery. This is not how problems are solved, and we are not honest with them unless we answer them. I think that both the spatial organisation of the educational system and the dispersal of human resources and the cognitive objects and also the skills that the country and production reality are supposed to need, today are in a great revolt, in a great embarrassment. And that orientation I don't see. The political system does not see any interest in following a number of coordinate principles with which my 'learning child', this great humanitarian acquisition of the decades of poor Greece, will be able to be renovated in the light of critical Greece. Finally, education is very important so that it can be put into the terms of the amphitheatre political debate. Sometimes I feel young enough when I see them revive student amphitheater practices. That's pleasant. This is a dead end. I have the great anxiety as a university, about where I will be able to find funding, my cognitive object and the great moral investment to teach, get into the classroom, without demanding additionals, without demanding that my wages be reduced to reduce the quality of my work. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] This question of universities is the question of the universities of our country's extremely high institutions and people, I fear, sometimes, that the political opposition is weakening it. Unfortunately, often, in order to achieve our political argument, we put, we get dark, we weaken, we lose this large stock. I would like us to be modest and thinking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u77	Thank you very much Mr Sevastakis, for many reasons, both for his speech and for the time, for everything. Please, please, I invite Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras to Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are used to saying that education is a matter of national importance, it is a matter of national importance. And it is, in the sense that it is the factor that determines the overall spiritual level of a people. But it is, and I would say, deeply social, because it affects the way people learn to operate in a society and because it determines the extent to which people have access to information and to knowledge, which is nowadays a very important criterion, for all citizens to have supplies so that they can have a life and a progress and have appropriate benefits from the state and society so that they can enjoy all their potential to develop on an equal footing. That is what I would say, however, is a basic social right at the same time, but also a means of controlling and criticising citizens. So education is not just a national case, but it is, after all, a question of democracy. So I came to the House today to share my thoughts on a day of effort to relaunch the universities and the TEIs of the country. Let me start with a little regression, hoping I won't get far. When we took over the governance of the country, we knew that, in the field of education, we had a double and parallel task ahead of us, to change all the dissolutionary conditions that had arisen in the years of the memoranda, the extreme interventions of the previous governments and, at the same time, to try to set up another vision of education, to lay the foundations for the future of education in our country at the present time. We started by increasing in spite of the extremely suffocating conditions, I would say, budgetary conditions in 2015, the funding of education to 2.8% of GDP, rather than realising the commitments made by previous governments, which were commitments to bring it down to 1.8% of GDP. And next year we are even more increasing funding for universities and technological institutions, as we committed ourselves. In the next two years we will give EUR 65 million, 30 million a year and 35 million a year, starting from the 2018 budget. And I want to say this because it is right to say that it is not just money, and that we need to discuss the philosophy of education, the model of education, the institutional framework of education, the content of knowledge in our schools and universities, but the truth is that especially in public universities and technological institutions over the last five years, the situation has become suffocating. So suffocating, that no serious reformist effort will be able to progress quickly, unless we try to take a step - step by step, depending on the financial possibilities, to restore this financial suffocation, the suffocation of recent years. The second thing we have tried to do, - if the first was to increase within the framework that we could spend, namely to go to 2.8%, not to 1.8 and now that we are breathing further, to increase them even further - and we have done so, it is perhaps what should be considered self-evident in a normal country. So what? To open schools all over the country and on the most remote island and in the most mountainous villages on time with books and to come teachers and teachers on time and not in December. I think that September 2016 was a milestone, because all schools and the most remote areas opened up on time with teachers in their place and with books in the hands of students from almost the first day. And you know what? Sometimes in that country talking about self-evident is not a given thing. Because the usual criticism of this government, in addition to other ideological differences, of political differences, is criticism of incompetence. I wish you too were so incompetent in the past five memorial years and to open the schools on time! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Or maybe the country, if you were so incompetent, hadn't been in the position it was found! Ladies and gentlemen, for many months now, there have been exhaustive discussions with the entire university community on the draft that we are currently bringing to the judgment of the House. And there were, of course, - because this is also part of our democracy, the counterpart, the different opinions - important compositions and impressive shocks in most of the, I would say, the bill that we are presenting to you today. There have been shocks that have improved it, but without changing his philosophy. A philosophy that is summarized in more democracy, in the establishment of academic rules, in the opening up of higher education institutions to the economically weaker sections of the population and in the association of institutions with society and with what we call an effort on productive reconstruction. When we took over, we found the universities loaded with failed administrative structures, with the notorious management councils - which were the great reform of the former Minister, Mrs Diamantopoulou - with people who were once competent and recognized scientists of good intentions, but who were asked - without them wanting to do so - to intervene in the HEIs and, finally, to have a decisive say in identifying their administrations and in other cases people with little knowledge of the universities in our country and the Greek reality. These councils were not finally made to be what they say their name, that is to say consultative factors, but to undertake to do the dirty work, let me express the expression of the then government and to take out unwanted administrations from the universities. That is why they had the right to - be careful - to reject even nominations for the administrations of universities for the post of dean and dean. And completely symptomically they rejected the applications of almost all the candidates, who were opposed to their policy at the time of the government, without even bothering to present, in many cases, an official rationale for rejecting the candidates. You are therefore accusing us of state and intervention in higher education institutions, while defending the most anti-democratic institution in the academic area since post-Civilisation. Has there been an institution that has been degrading university intelligence so clearly over the last forty-five years? Is there a similar procedure at European universities? We are therefore abolishing the administrative boards to restore the democracy and self-sufficiency of university institutions. That is, I would say, a fundamental move towards respect for the university community. You are also accusing us of not wanting to connect higher education institutions to the constantly evolving needs of society, and in reality we are innovative by design and we are founding in every region of the country the Academy Councils of Higher Education and Research. In simple terms, we form structures which will help universities and TEIs and research centres to link each other and to the real needs of society and local communities. Because we realise that progress can come from solidarity and cooperation not from exotic competition, by trying the highest institutions to claim funding for joint research programmes and not by trying to get one's eye on the other, such as the views of Officerial Response want, in the end, only to survive the most powerful ones and I would probably not the strongest but the most intertwined ones. And I want to stand here a little, because until now we have known about biological darninism, we know about social darninism, but now we will know that there is university darninism. We learned from a recent statement from the Chief of Officerial Representation, Mr Mitsotakis, who told us that he wanted a model of extermination at the HEIs and even an assessment linked to the budget, so that at the end what institutions do not manage, survive, fall into the cave. I am pleased that the Quaestorial Opposition expresses its views very well, because this can be a real controversy of ideas and for the Greek people to understand what our views are and what we are proposing for the next day. But you will allow me to comment on this point, which, I repeat, I am pleased to say directly. It is an extremist neoliberal concept of how our society works and, above all, of how our academic community works. It is an extremist neoliberal concept for the universities of the country, which it expresses - and its well-thought out - the neoliberal New Democracy of Mr Mitsotakis. It envisions universities bleaking into the competition arena will kill each other for what it will survive. In short, conditions of academic survivor, everyone against everyone and everyone alone. On the other hand, we say evaluation, yes evaluation, so that university institutions can get better, not in order for someone to survive as well, but in order for everyone through this process to raise their level and raise the level of knowledge provided to our students, our students, to the new generation of this place. So evaluation, yes, academic jungle, but not. At the same time, we through this draft law restore the possibility for students to have a say about their studies, as is done in most European university institutions. And you who are in here every time that you are more European than everyone else, should have known that. We do not, however, allow students to vote directly for the election of thefts, because here we have an experience, which shows us that a framework of inter-terrorism and inter-corrorism has actually been established within the institutions. Only you know something? It is hypocritical that you, of the New Democracy and of the PASOK, have made reference to this framework, to defend the view that students should not have any relationship and any reason for their studies, because this corruption and this complexity had been set up and provided by your own groups, the student groups of the New Democracy and PASOK, to the Greek universities - unfortunately this is the reality - and, of course, the rectorial regimes which your governments or party formations backed and participated in this law. Because many times the decisions on whom the student party will support were taken at the party offices, not even within university institutions. So denounced now is at least hypocrisy. That is why we are bringing in a law whereby we are building a framework for separate votes to be passed by the vice-presidents, because the administrations of the institutions are not parties, not parties, but people in their opinion. And many times different opinions are useful in the administrations of the institutions, if they exist between the budgets and the counter-rates. And because we are not afraid of the students and the student movement, we neither degrade them and believe that they have the possibility of being alone - and we need this confidence and confidence to inspire them already - to protect academic institutions from various forces that operate provocatively, to restore the framework for university asylum, for which so much fuss has been done, where it was on the Government of New Democracy before Mrs Diamantopoulou came in and changed it, where Mrs Giannakou had it. What's bothering you so much about this? So much now you are with the neoliberal modernist version, which even you consider to be a regression and you accuse us of reintroducing the Giannakou framework and not leaving it to Diamantopoulou? All right, take them to your party too if you so much love them, but come here and talk about what we're doing here. Because with university asylum, indeed, the public sphere was tortured. He had been tortured not because of the distorted institutional framework but because of the possibility that small groups of provocatives, mainly because of the inability to intervene in the student movement itself, to create data, which make up both the concept of asylum and the very concept of academic freedom. We believe, however, that we must give the opportunity to ensure that all ideas within universities are available, provided that all basic democratic freedoms and procedures are respected. Because the abolition of asylum, as we know, has not only solved the problem, but experience has said that it has intensified it. And the only way in our view is to resolve tensions within universities is dialogue within the university community and at the political level. That's how problems are solved. So problems can be solved and not with mass police operations that remind other times. With this law, ladies and gentlemen, we are also stopping the classroom of the very high masters in postgraduate courses. And you know, that's something that's very important to us. Tuition is often determined on market terms rather than on the basis of the actual cost of each postgraduate programme. The unjustly high tuition fees on the one hand only increase the revenues of a small portion of teachers. And this is where we crashed with little interest. We've become unpleasant about some. What can we do? On the other hand, however, there are high tuition fees, which exclude students from their studies, who cannot afford to pay them back to finish their studies. We set strict conditions to shape, where necessary, the level of tuition fees and, above all, we establish that no student who has been admitted to a postgraduate programme will be excluded from this, if proven to have an economic inability to pay these tuition fees. For the first time, then, we have set conditions for the free schooling of those with academic qualifications, but they are unable to pay the fees. Because studies and postgraduate studies must be for all young people and young people who have academic qualifications and not just those who have the financial potential. We know, of course, that you in New Democracy will also disagree on this, but I think that we are judged by the citizens every day. This law, however, also brings a number of other important innovations. It meets the standard requirement of multi-technical schools for academic equivalency of their five degrees with master and the simultaneous beginning of procedures to solve a chronic problem, which concerns the professional rights of graduates of TEI, including engineers. It is a matter that we have been discussing for years - I remember when the Minister of Education has been the former President of the House, Mr Kaklamanis. We are discussing and discussing a matter which can be resolved and which must be resolved by consensus. Our proposal is to proceed directly with the drafting of a Presidential Decree with the professional qualifications of the graduate engineers of the TEI, through the meeting of a committee, which will be made up of representatives of multi-technical schools from the Technical Departments of TEIs and experts, made up of graduates from the two institutions on an equal footing. In other words, our initiatives help to create a climate of confidence, because a problem that has divided communities of engineers for so many decades, obviously cannot be solved by pressing a button, but I am sure that the conditions are now mature, so that engineers can propose and find solutions on an equal footing. They accused us that by these arrangements we are equating the universities with the TEIs. TEIs, however, are higher education institutions. Teachers there are in selective colleges of university professors and participate in doctoral committees. There is a reality here, which we must recognise and salute. There is now an extremely important and significant potential in our country's technological education institutions. There are high-qualified teachers, workshops that would envy large foreign universities, research infrastructures and high-performance groups. Compounded with the upgrading of higher education is the process that has begun - we announced it about two and a half months ago at the Ministry of Education with my presence there - and it concerns the establishment of the University of Western Attica after discussions, of course, and a joint work with the TEIs of Athens and Piraeus. There, on academic criteria, we are moving towards the creation of a multitude of university education which, at the same time, will be in contact with and linked to the development prospects of the West Attica, an area that has very great potential, which we must use and also very great challenges to face. The dynamic that will be liberated from this process, we believe it will have multiplier benefits, not only for the Western Attica but for the whole country, finally opening the way for synergies between regional universities and technological educational institutions. In the field of vocational training, however, decisive steps are being taken. We found the professional high school, the P.A.S.A., in dissolution. The previous government had taken care to get their teachers to be made available so that it could abolish the most popular PSAs specialties and make the children there a clientele for private IEKs. We are, on the other hand, updating the ESDP. The year of apprenticeship is now a reality. You accused us of being an institution where children would work without wages and insurance. You have been disproved in this too, too. The prospect that we give through the new two-year structures that we set up at the IOIs that will provide professional certificates of European standards, upgrades the NSAs and technical education in our country. These two-year programmes will be free and organized within the higher education institutions themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of my speech, I would like to remind you of a few more aspects of our policy in education. The reform of school programs for History and Religiouss, the strengthening of special education for the first time by setting up new schools and departments and covering all gaps in teaching staff for the first time in the history of the country, the second chance schools in prisons to get people out of the deadlocks that led them in there, as well as the compensatory education structures created by drug treatment structures. These are all movements - I would say - of fundamental modernization, but also of elementary humanism. We also plan an intervention for next school year in the remaining eight hundred thirty oligotas - one-seat, two-seat and three-seat schools in our country, which have only one teacher and are located in the lasts of our country, so that they can form part there all-day. We are, of course, establishing with the help of the teachers themselves a thousand libraries in our country's primary schools. The culmination of our reform programme, however, is high school interventions. There is a bill, an intervention that is already in consultation, a wide debate and will come with the resumption of Parliament's work from the summer holidays. I refer to interventions mainly concerning the second and third degrees of admission to higher education institutions and the TEI. The big question that needs to be dealt with in our society is whether we will be a society with annulled high school and school as a basic educational grade, a society where the educational processes of high school will be carried out by foreign institutions toward public education, that is to say, in the schools, or whether we will be able to look for ways, to move forward to a radical reform of the procedures for admission to the HEI and TEI, a need that has matured in Greek society in order to upgrade the educational process within the school. And, of course, to enable young children, at the most critical and sensitive age, to have more chances and opportunities to judge their abilities and not once out in a critical moment in our lives, such as that of the pan-Hellenic examinations at the end of the third grade. But before I close to say a few words about research, because we are working to keep young people in Greece - and it is perhaps the biggest bet in the next period - to work here, to contribute with their ideas to what we call 'productive reconstruction'. That's why we increased the funding for research close to 1% of GDP, we founded the Hellenic Institute for Research and Innovation, ELIDEC, with resources of 250,000,000 euros, which, with the leverage of private resources, is needed. They can reach a total of 1 billion and which has already given over five hundred scholarships to young scientists, candidate doctors and postdoctors to stay in the country but which already gives the opportunity to young people who have left, to return to the country. We have built the Participation Fund, also with resources of EUR 250,000,000, a structure that will have the task of taking innovative scientific ideas and setting up new businesses on them, because we understand its research and contribution to social progress, so that we can face the scourge of the so-called 'brain-drain', that is, leaving the country of the most powerful minds of our country. We also know, ladies and gentlemen, that at Greek universities, as much as they have been discredited in the past, and in our country's research centres, substantial work is done. The research carried out at both higher education institutions and research centres in our country is important research, including through public research centres, even companies that develop technologies that export them and end up cooperating even with colossals. One such case was the one of the "INNOETICS", whose acquisition by SAMSUNG was announced some time ago, a company exclusively by young Greek scientists, which created an innovative technology, which is not only financially profitable but also has a social reward, improves people's lives. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to what we are proposing, I hope that today we will also have the opportunity to hear the counter-proposal. In the face of what we are proposing, the New Democracy's neoliberal vision of education is being compared and the only proposal of this vision, as is any other plan of the New Democracy for benefits to citizens, I would say that it is condensed in a single word. Private. Private schools, private universities, private hospitals, private insurance, private cleaning and storage services, to get there, etc. No, we will not favour this entrepreneurship, which is fuelled by the gaps in state policy, and in the end it ends up costing the state and the citizens much more. On the other hand, we are trying to create and favour the entrepreneurship of innovation and the social benefit, and perhaps it is an opportunity today, for Greek society to hear what the other proposal is. For we, in general terms, do not treat society or the citizens as an obscure mass, as an improper majority, as Mr Mitsotakis described it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u79	Silent I said no ignorant.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u80	You said an impeccable majority. It has been recorded, unfortunately, as many other times you have said. Maybe you're out of your mind. Let me tell you something else. It is precisely because we do not consider that it is the ignorant majority, which judges the citizens, that judges political decisions...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u81	They're the victims of your mocking.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u82	Yes, sir! You can tell the Greek people in public, what you say is the fault of the one who decides on his future and does not have the ability to make decisions right and you are the ones who will bring them back on the right track. Perhaps that is why, if you want to apply to a social category, you believe that communication is enough rather than the contents of your proposals. You believe, in other words, that if you go to the farmers and sit on straws, you will convince them that you have a proposal for agricultural policy or when you go to the fishermen and sit on the benches. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] So you treat people like what's best for you to be. We treat them like what they deserve to be educated, with knowledge, in a democratic society that gives equal opportunities to all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u83	Thank you very much. I call on the President of the New Democracy in Step Mr Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill to be passed today by the SYRIZA and ANEL parliamentary groups will soon be in the past. After all, the perceptions that this bill is going to impose come from the past. I pledge before the Greek Parliament and before the Greek society that the New Democracy will abolish it. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In the future, this bill will only be a proof that a government without knowledge, without a method, but unfortunately without a plan and without barriers, attempted in the middle of the summer of 2017, to turn higher education back to our country. And I'm afraid they're the softest characterizations. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, the political decline in the Couple and the government's constant momentum towards authoritarianism are now clearly manifested in the way you legislate. You now act without suspensions, with the laws - brooms and innumerable amendments, which come to plenary, just before the National Representation closes for the summer break. Parliament's legislative decline has exceeded every limit and, unfortunately, with the tolerance of the Bureau of Parliament and the President personally, who is now conscientious in this legislative process. Of course, during SYRIZA unprecedented things occur not only within but outside the House building. Ladies and gentlemen, the courtyard of the Parliament cannot be turned into a place for any kind of protest and when the police simply do its job, they should be invoked by the President of the Parliament that almost prevents freedom of expression, because they want to show tolerance against movements of a non-violent character. I wonder if, in its place as the 'Ruvikon' - I would remind you that it is an organization that has parade in Exarches, keeping Kalashnikov - it was another group of protesting citizens, if it would show the same tolerance and understanding. The question is rhetorical. I know the answer. Mr President, I have sent you two letters concerning the major problems in the functioning of Parliament and your responsibilities for many months now. I'm filing them again in the Minutes. You have not given me any written answer, and you have now rushed to answer it in one day. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the abovementioned letters, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The problem remains very serious. I'll stop here. Today I do not want our attention to be taken from the major issue of higher education that we are discussing. I shall, however, return to this matter. After the few days of rest, we will discuss this issue again, because, unfortunately, the legislative function today benefits from the practice you are using. Ladies and gentlemen of the ANELs - you are few in the Chamber and I understand the floor - today you will simply want to forget that many of you, as Members and officials of the New Democracy, have supported policies for education in a completely different manner from today's bill, including your President, who is conveniently absent from today's debate. That's why you're going to vote today everything you're told of for the chair, for a ministry, for five, six of the Secretary-General's seats. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] For a plenary seat you will have also subscribed to the tradition of higher education in the mountainous areas of your government partner. Ladies and gentlemen, you are a confrontation dangerous to the present and future of the country, especially of the young people, of many young people who today feel that they have no choice but to leave behind a Greece that leads you to extinction and dissolution. You are bringing today a bill that degrades the Greek universities, a bill that creates a suffocating bureaucratic and central operating framework, a bill that restores the instability of partyism in educational establishments, a bill that brings back a completely anachronistic view of asylum, a bill that chokes the postgraduate programs, thereby giving our students less choices and less specialization, a bill that eventually leads young people, especially young scientists for whom you are supposed to be, closer to unemployment. Instead of getting supplies to stand in a competitive international environment and being able with demands to enter the labour market, the new generation of Greeks will remain behind. Lower equation and levelling. This is your plan in every area. Finally, to create citizens dependent on the state. Promise them of survival benefits. Turn them into blackmailing clients. You are bringing the bill on higher education in the last week of the House's operation between many other bills and, of course, countless amendments. Thirty amendments we have put together in this bill! You've exceeded all twenty-eight of the previous. Why is that? To vote wrongly? Do you want to legislate in the wilderness of Greek society with hope, I imagine, that she is already on vacation? But, Mr Tsipras, ignoring provocatively the climate of consensus, which has been conquered with effort and mutual retreats in the fields of education, and if you have put it, it is assumed that the bill is in public consultation. You told us that you had an exhaustive dialogue, Mr Tsipras, with the leaders and representatives of the academic communities. But you did not tell us that at the end of the day the academic community raised serious objections and you did not tell us that the meet-up was expressing its strong reservations about this bill, reservations and objections which you and your Minister have provoked. For anyone who does not understand that you are constantly dealing with authoritarianism, you have also submitted twenty additional articles on all matters and, of course, the General Accounting Office of the State fails to assess the cost of the bill. Of the thirty-seven provisions that cause expenditure, you have provided information - notice - only for the five. It is clear that you are not respecting Parliament. It is clear that you do not know what you are voting on either. However, it is the universities that will suffer the consequences. We shall now proceed to the substance of the legislation. In order for Greek universities to become better, they need better quality studies and extroverty, greater selfishness and certainly more orderly internal function. Above all, however, they need the support of people who are able to create and produce work in higher education against today's adverse conditions. Mr. Tsipras, the world today is changing rapidly. Technology redefines how economies and social relations are organised. Traditional professions disappear and new are created at incredible speed and in the area of education worldwide a revolution is taking place today and knowledge and skills are ultimately the only supply to distinguish themselves in this new world, which is born. And you, Mr. Tsipras, what are you doing? Instead of looking forward, you look back. You are harassing the darkest practices of other times when education was unfortunately a field of political conflict and microparticipation. Your bill is nothing but a violent return to the past. It undermines the proper functioning of the institutions. The election of separate voters you know very well that it will affect the efficiency of the administration. This, of course, is not something that you are interested in, because your method is known. What cannot be controlled is ultimately targeted and undermined. You have done so with justice, you have attempted it through the media, you are seeking it in public administration, the independent authorities. Now you're trying to do it in tertiary education. Reinstate the participation of students' representatives, in the accuracy of student classes, in the management bodies of the institutions. I'm telling you again. It's a huge mistake. Tell me, Mr Tsipras, a major university in which students, among other things, vote for the award of titles - honorary doctor, honest and honorary professor - for the movement of teachers from a department to a department or for the change of the cognitive object to which a teacher has been appointed. To have students consulted on matters related to them is legitimate. But you don't ask for an opinion. You impose substantial co-operation and you will eventually lead the universities back to the excesses and extremes of the 1980s, at a time when party interventions were taking place, where student youths were the lead in amphitheatres. Yes, in 2011, the political system of PASOK and New Democracy at that time - it took greater courage from the New Democracy to support a legislative initiative from PASOK, but we found the courage - closed this chapter, abolishing student participation in the administration of institutions. You, today, reopen it. As far as academic asylum is concerned, we have another huge setback. With your bill, you anticipate the self-determination of authorities only of felonies and crimes against life. Who will judge this and what does it mean in practice? It means saying so very simply - and our rapporteur has said so - that when a crime is committed, the Republican Council must come to a close, decide on the legal nature of the offence and then the authorities must be called upon. In the meantime, the offenders will either continue their criminal activity or have disappeared, naturally using the time given to them for it. I wonder who is benefiting from this and who you want, in the end, to protect. I think it's self-evident. Neither the students nor the teachers nor the academic freedom which is obviously not questioned! You protect the criminals that have higher education institutions as their function! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Instead of talking about how, in fact, we'll do better at universities and TEIs, we'll talk about whether the police will need special permission to intervene when common crimes are committed in university spaces. I think you know very well and where you're taking us and what you want to do. But what right are you going to turn academic spaces into unbattered lawlessness? Your bill also introduces a suffocating operating framework and seriously undermines the institutions' self-interest. It goes away - you have said so with pride - the successful institutional councils and, in their place, it creates the Academic Councils of Higher Education and Research. The self-employed of the institutions is affected. There are very serious issues of unconstitutionality, which you will find in front of you too. Institutions do not need a state inspector above their heads. It is clear, indeed, that Mr Gavroglou considered the establishment and functioning of the institutions councils as a defeat on the left. Didn't you say so, Minister? You've written about it. You want to get some rematch. But revancushion is not a policy, and in this case it hurts higher education. I told you in my previous speech - and I repeat today - that the institution councils were formed by significant personalities from Greece and abroad, by well-known international fame professors, several of whom came from abroad, in order to offer their experiences to the Greek university. You are not just dismantling them, but you despising them with what you said today, because you are being disturbed by the independent voices, because you are despising quality! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr. Tsipras, we have the luxury of Greece, to expel a Bertsima or a Nehama, because that's what you're doing right now! At a time when public universities must be opened in the world, you close them in your own small world. Your bill ultimately abuses the quality of studies and discourages the extroversion of institutions. In fact, to say things by their name, you are averting any concept of evaluation. And because you know very well that this is an issue relating to the European area of higher education, you are trying to cancel the evaluation in an indirect way. You create parallel structures to which you assign the responsibilities of the Assurance and Quality Assurance Authority of Higher Education. You hide from the IP which you never liked and you never loved her because you eventually despised any concept of evaluation. I will come back to this matter and then. If the PPP does not have responsibility, how will he assess it? The whole bill is governed by a centralised, bureaucratic and ultimately highly backward concept. Indicative - I mention it as an example - of the overconcentration promoted by the bill - look out! - it's like this. In order for a foreign professor to be invited to give a lecture, a project will have to be awarded and a joint ministerial decision will be made on his fee. But are these serious things? Where are these things? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] If a department in Oxford, Sorbonne, Harvard, Stanford, Heidelberg wants to call an appropriate scientist or any other personality, will the British or German ministers be required?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u85	It's changed!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u86	Change that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u87	This has changed, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u88	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u89	A climax of this attitude is the new framework for postgraduate programmes. So let's talk a little bit about postgraduate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u90	Did you bring it or didn't you bring it, Minister? You must say you brought it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u91	There was from the beginning, after you withdrew it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u92	Please be quiet. Mr. Kikilia, what kind of behavior is this? Mr. Kikilia!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u93	Have courage and freeness of speech, say you brought it. You're acting!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u94	What are these things?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u95	Mr. Kikilia, if you'll excuse me very much, what kind of behavior is this?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u96	Mr. Mitsotakis, excuse me, wait a minute. Mr. Kikilia, please don't talk like that in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u97	You're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u98	Go ahead, Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u99	So let's see what you do to postgraduate. Instead of using them as a tool for the development and extroversion of universities, you finally go drown them. Your pay arrangements, for the composition of teaching staff, will eventually lead postgraduate programmes to a complete inability to provide quality postgraduate studies. You will eventually lead the postgraduate to their actual abolition, because in reality your arrangements remove every motive from teachers, to allocate their overtime for postgraduate. There are already additional earnings of all kinds, however. Why did you feel the need to introduce a new cap on overtime postgraduate teaching? And instead of actually motivating teachers to set up programmes, and in this way to bring income to universities, you actually encourage them to stop teaching. At what serious university abroad would the Minister dare to set as a prerequisite he must teach - be careful! - a teacher a second lesson free of charge to pay his overtime for a postgraduate course? The bill also gives the Minister for Education a right - look out! - refer back to the decision of the congress to set up a postgraduate course when it objects to the level of the students' fees or to their operating costs. And in order not to be exposed, you say this will be done at the suggestion of a committee. But what you are not telling us is that the committee is designated by the Minister himself. This, of course, harms the self-interest of the institutions. You are equally provoking the composition of teaching staff. It provides for your law that teachers in postgraduate programmes must come by 60% from the department concerned and in the case of voluntary programmes by 80%. There are many projects with tuition fees that want to work with experts, market officials, teachers from foreign institutions. Why do you have to forbid them? What is the point of centralising and not leaving the organization of postgraduate diplomas at the discretion of each institution? The conclusion I think is clear. In the end, you do not want there to be postgraduate programmes, as they are organized today in Greece. Do you know who's gonna pay for this? Finally, financially weaker students, those who can't leave abroad. We, Minister, would be absolutely in agreement, to have a minimum number on each postgraduate student programme, which will be covered by scholarships, so that students who do not have the financial capacity can attend postgraduate courses with higher tuition fees. But today how will you cover the loss of revenue from the reduction of tuition fees, which inevitably will bring about your bill? Financially weaker students - I told you before - can't leave abroad. But what about the hundreds of workers in postgraduate programmes, university services, who are now being paid from the resources of these programmes? No one knows what these people will become. The institutions themselves will eventually lose resources, prestige and all the benefits arising from their association with the real economy, while the worthy teachers will look abroad for better working conditions. And you come, Minister, and you say that if the good guys are to leave abroad because they're not paid, I urge them to do so. What exactly do you say, Mr. Gavroglou? Where and how far are you going to tell anyone to leave his country? And yes, with your policies, you finally drive the best from home. I read today in a letter, published in a newspaper, a very strong reference to a notary, which was written on word - and I would like to read it - 'all these children who never made mottos, who have taken knowledge of dirty amphitheatres, unattended universities, with paper walls, with garbage and occupations, of children who have not respected them'. At some point, Mr. Tsipras, these children will travel abroad and see that what they lived in Greece is not normal but a terrible exception from global educational regularity and they will throw black stone into our homeland. And deep down, that's what you want! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You don't want a Greece in which everyone can claim what they can. You want a Greece, where citizens will live under the conditions you impose, or else let them go. Except that's not gonna happen, because you're the ones to leave. And you will leave the power that you so undemocraticly exercise, in the most democratic way that elections are, Mr Tsipras! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Greece will go forward. And the new generation will stand firm, because it is not and cannot be held hostage to a group, which, when it is not illegally slandered and when it is not slandering, blackmailing and when it cannot blackmail, attempts to divide society. But the interest of society is not divided. Everyone wants to go forward and everyone knows that with you the country has no future. Ladies and gentlemen, for many decades, public education and especially public higher education have been the most important lever of social mobility in the country, it has been the only way to go ahead with a child from a non-preferential family. When we talk about public education with logic of excellence, that is what we mean. Access to mobility, the momentum upwards, the individual and family excesses for the progress of our children. We do not wish, Mr Tsipras, to equate everyone down, but climb as much as possible upwards! This is our great ideological difference! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In particular, what we must safeguard - because we have an obligation to protect - is a society of equal opportunities and, ultimately, to keep the hope of the least privileged. You're the ones making it backwards. You're cutting the oxygen from the universities to check them out, and you don't even care if you condemn a generation in lower-level education. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not get tired of saying that the failure of the government is not a failure of the country. Greece can and must move forward with high standards university institutions, which will attract high-level staff and students, but institutions linked to the labour market and the private economy. We can do this not with a bureaucratic and anachronistic bill such as today, but with a bold framework of change and reforms that I have spoken about extensively and which will move into five main lines. Firstly, strengthening the real self-sufficiency of universities. Self-evidence means that each institution should be able to decide the same on matters relating to its education function. This has to do with both undergraduate and postgraduate curricula and cooperation and networking with other internal and external institutions. The second axis that is so disturbing to you - yes, Mr Tsipras - is the evaluation. This concept of exhaustive evaluation bothers you. You know, however, universities manage public money and the evaluation is the only tool we have, so that we can reward those who pay and coordinate those who do not respect taxpayers' money. And the Quality Assurance Authority, the IPPC, which you are undermining, will become the key pillar of this policy. We'll strengthen her and upgrade her. The state, of course, must have an essential supervisory role in state funding and in how taxpayers' money is spent, but this state funding is indeed to be done and on the basis of objective criteria and indicators that are indeed linked to the assessment. Because you know what you described as neoliberal is happening almost everywhere in the world, because it makes no sense to have an assessment, if this assessment has no consequences, and if we do not at last reward those who are good and distinguished! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Third axis, the upgrading of the academic environment. Ensure freedom to teach, research, university life as a whole means something very simple, Mr. Tsipras. It means combating the phenomena of violence and lawlessness within the institutions and self-determination of the authorities for all crimes! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Take the hammer. Small minorities with fascist behaviour will no longer force their views on universities by force! Fourthly, linking education and research to the production process, research structures in universities with a state and a private contribution, institutions can draw resources from the market as well, and this will ultimately favour growth and innovation and benefit students, gain valuable professional facilities, because today - I do not know if you know this - it is very little the sections of the universities which impose on the practical exercise and it is a common place that our universities produce graduates, who have nothing to do with the skills that the labour market is asking for today. And fifthly, yes, it is the revision of Article 16 of the Constitution, so that private universities can be founded in our country, as is happening everywhere else. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] This demand is a majority request in society and we hope - I do not look forward to you - that the other parties of the National Representation, to find the courage and to overcome the nullities of the past and to take a brave step together, which will benefit our country and the new generation as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, we are living in a world that moves and grows at a glossy rate. Universities everywhere in the world, the successful universities, are being opened up in the future. They create uninterrupted new areas of knowledge and professions. They're founding companies themselves. They're on the front line of the technological revolution. They compete with universities to attract the best students, the best teachers. They systematically discuss with the business community. They demand donations from the private sector. They're investing in buildings. They're investing in infrastructure. They change the nature of the cities in which they stand. Most of all, though, they cultivate academic curiosity, this virtue that is hidden behind the very nature of human progress. But, unfortunately, none of this will happen to the Greek universities, because the law condemns you to the daring, backwardness and decline. The eighteen-year-old first student from a downgraded district of western Athens that he and his family had to go to the school of his choice, which has dreams for the future, Mr. Tsipras, deserves better than being in a dirty building and confronting the tables of the student youths who exercise power in universities. Finally, the successful professor who left a career abroad to go home and offer his services to the public university deserves better than feeling his physical integrity is threatened every time he expresses his opinion. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The walls that some urgently need to build, we will tear them down and give the universities back to the students and teachers who want to move forward. The bill that the some subordinated SYRIZA and ANEL parliamentary groups will vote today will soon be a past, because here - and I would like to stress this - we are not just talking about a law. We are discussing the very nature of our homeland. Education is the soul of Greece and this soul will not allow you to tarnish it, as we will not allow you to tarnish the democratic acquis with your obsolete authoritarianism. Why are you taking public life very much back in the past and often, unwittingly, unwittingly, you reveal yourself with what you say. You know, Mr Tsipras, no policy can finally stand without the approval of society, and if you look at smiling faces, which exist only in your imagination. Why Greece today if you come out of the protected areas in which you are moving, it is a bordered country and the faces of the Greeks who are resisting the cleansing of the tax office and the EKA, only smiling is not, Mr. Tsipras! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Instead of ironing out my own tours, I invite you and I invite you, if you can, to go talk to the farmers today either sitting on hay or on the tractors on which you were up when you were mocking them and mocking them. You should go tell the farmers now, instead of being sanitized by the Stepping of the House. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But whatever you do, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, your things in power will continue to pursue you. You are hostages, Mr Tsipras, of your past, because the catastrophic choices you made in the first seven months of 2015, and in the three lost years, are not compensated for by an exact exit into the markets. Mr. Varoufakis has reached the point... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Immediately as an electroshock! Every time...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u100	Quiet, please! Be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u101	Don't worry. I'll just say one word. A lot will be discussed at another opportunity, in the examination we are going to do. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr. Varoufakis came to the point, to give publicity to sms he exchanged with the Prime Minister. I'll just say one thing. You were willing to discuss, which was a good thing for every Greek government, the country's exit from the Eurozone. We knew. Unfortunately, it is now confirmed. That's not all. There are many other things to come to light. All this will be discussed in the committee of inquiry, which will be done either by your own will or without your will, because the Greek people are entitled to know the truth! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I shall close, Mr President, with this comment. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL Greece, unfortunately, has become poor and short on your days. You want to do the same in the universities. You want them to get poor and short. We won't allow it. You took some time to prove it's much easier to tear down than to build. In the global open knowledge society you respond with the closed Greece of desperation, because you are not after all seeking social progress, but the gleaning of a minority of the decline of which, in the end, you are the best defender. We will meet against those who see in the mirror of education who want to build, the idol of their own modesty and their own idealism. The Gavroglou law will be abolished and the universities will resurrect, liberated from tight embrace with a state that keeps them back. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The quality of education in our country delineates not only its prospects for the future, but ultimately the very quality of our democracy. Greece must and will be the country of merit and equal opportunities again, and only good public education can guarantee it. This is our debt to the new generation, and that is the responsibility that we will fulfil with regard to our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, have you asked for the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u103	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u104	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. I want to make a few small points. Mr Mitsotakis spoke at the beginning of his speech about the bad legalization and last minute's amendments. It would indeed be essential to speak in this House about the possibility of better legislation. But when this category is emanated from the side of the New Democracy and its Leader, who have ruled the place in previous years, in which the country has been found, as now, under the strict monitoring and committee of lenders, it is extremely hypocritical. "In the house of the hanger..." says a proverb. Have you forgotten that you have almost exclusively legislated by legislative acts? [[Noise - laughers from the wing of the New Republic]] You're laughing, huh? But you'll hear them now and you'll hear numbers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u106	Quiet, please, quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u107	Don't get exhausted. I see you've got a lot of nerves. Why so much nerve? So, at the hanger's house, they don't talk about rope. But I would like to explain to you, what is the difference in the need to achieve the objectives of a programme - I repeat, because I want to be honest - which are too many times too suffocating about the timing of implementation and at the same time about the implementation of balancing measures - which you have never considered during your term of office - the impact they have on Greek society and the Greek citizens of measures to adapt to the budget, which strengthen the social state and meet needs. In 2014, therefore, while you were in the last year of governance, you had legislated about two hundred seventy last minute amendments. We in 2016 have grown to what this figure is, but the difference is that you had sixty bills, while we have more than ninety. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] We haven't more than doubled them. It's 20 more. But beware of the nostalgic difference. We voted, in fact, with a last-minute amendment, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, in December 2016, on the only tenth pension, while you left Parliament. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We have taken the HIS discharge for Lesvos and Kos with a last-minute amendment when you left Parliament. But what did you vote on with last minute amendments, among other things? The immunity of the bankers who managed your sea loans. That is what you have voted on with last minute amendments! So, ladies and gentlemen, don't talk about rope in the hanger's house.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u108	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u109	On the contrary, if you want us to have a substantial debate, how we can do what we can from now on, in order to have what we call good legislation, we are open to dialogue, which can also be held at the Conference of Presidents of Parliament, where such issues can be discussed. Ladies and gentlemen, I now come to the issues raised by the position of Chief of Staff. Mr Mitsotakis, with his speech today, reaffirmed what I referred to in my first speech. In fact, he has a plan and an extremist neoliberal program and that what he cares is not the public but the private. He spoke to us today about Article 16 and the private universities. He denounced us because we are going back to the lawlessness of the Giannakou institutional framework, leaving the institutional framework of Diamantopoulou. This denounced to us the lawlessness that Mr Karamanlis' government had created with Minister Giannakou. Is that lawlessness? Of course he complained of the fact that we were restoring an unprecedented undemocratic practice for academic institutions in a European context, that of the councils, where they were able to censor and cancel candidates for the administrations of the universities, to cancel candidates for the Greek universities. At the same time, he once again made one more regular overrun. He distorted our positions in relation to evaluation. I would like to point out that the bill provides for a double assessment of postgraduate institutions, and we had once before. Actually what he didn't say, but that's the reality, I'll say it. It has shown a perception of the evaluation, which does not in itself concern evaluation of the process or institutions, but is the use of evaluation as a tool in order to impose extreme choices, whether they relate to the abolition of institutions, whether they relate to the reduction of public spending or to the dismissal of civil servants. For another thing is the evaluation that will make the institutions better, another thing is the evaluation that will help both our educational staff and our students to get better, and another thing is this evaluation, which - I repeat - as a means of justifying preconceived decisions to reduce public spending on public education in order to benefit competitive private interests in education. Of course, Mr Mitsotakis and his term of office as Minister for Administrative Reform, where he wanted to make use of the instrument of evaluation, moving on to a process, from which it had been established in advance that almost 25% of those who would be placed in the evaluation process had to be considered useless in order to open up the path of their dismissal from the public authorities. We do not want this assessment. We want the real and substantial evaluation, which will help to make the institutions better and not to cut further costs. Finally, Mr Mitsotakis, I understood that these communicationists who suggest that you allow people to sit on hay, suggested that you also speak today about the young man, the student of Western Attica. But how do you care about this young man from West Attica? [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] You were five years government and you reduced public education expenditure tragically, you strangled public universities, this young man who has no opportunity to study abroad or go to another private college, so he goes to the public school - and without the opportunity to waste his money in the schools - and at the public university. How do you care about this new man, to whom you referred, from a people's neighborhood in Western Attica? How do you want to convince that you care about him? What did you do when you were government over these people? As soon as we return from the summer rest of the House, we bring a flagship - I would say - bill, which is already in a consultation process for the future of public education in our country, because it is about how to introduce higher education. You're reacting to that, too. It is a bill that wants to abolish the pan-Hellenic exams, which are a process for the submission of young people to extermination and crises only once. They are, of course, incomprehensible - I shall be in agreement with your intervention in relation to the procedure - on the other hand, it is inappropriate - but on the other hand, it is true today in the country that the school - particularly high school - has become an employee of the schools. In particular, this creates obstacles to children of the populace and of the West Attica, for which children of the people's families are lately showing up today to care. You can't convince yourself, Mr. Mitsotakis, that's why. And I close, ladies and gentlemen, with this. Mr Mitsotakis did not exhaust his position on education. On the contrary, once again, the Step in this regard blames us for the same, well-known and well-known, which, of course, has not been missing a chance at times for two years. Mr Mitsotakis - and I said it before - by seeing the interventions of your Members, the aggressive style with which the noble ones otherwise referred to the Minister for Education, I would like to ask you why these nerves. What's wrong with you? Since the second assessment was concluded, and we have had an agreement that opens up prospects for the economy, an agreement on the debt with which the roads opened for the country's successful exit to markets, you give the feeling - you personally, but also your Members, your executives - that you are in a state of nervous crisis. Within a month and a half of June, you have asked for three different committees of inquiry: one for Kammenos - I do not know if you insist, but you requested it - one for Varoufakis again - while you knew that your proposal had been made at an earlier stage and had been rejected - and now one for the Venezuelan Maduro. Within a month and a half you have asked for three committees of inquiry. It's really an excellent record. If we divide it, it's about one exam every fifteen days! Keep it up. However, it is not only the committees of inquiry that you are asking, throwing the ball on the stage on the important issues of the present, where there are political arguments and arguments to oppose. It's your general behavior. You requested a week ago by your self-government officials to boycott, sabotage, not to attend a process involving self-government, and it is about the plan for the productive reconstruction of the regions, because the Prime Minister would be there. And you still didn't hesitate to put a ban on your executives and your nephew himself. What's wrong with you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u110	Do you understand what you're saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u111	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u112	Don't shave, gentlemen, your face! And we should shave our faces with an anti-institutional behavior. You have reached the point, Mr Mitsotakis, to lose all traces of civil courtesy, which otherwise distinguishes you. You have reached the point on my birthday, instead of wishing me joyful, that I am a liar and a thief. That's where you've been driven. Mr. Mitsotakis, nerves aren't good. And instead of every 15 days finding out something and asking for a committee of inquiry, would you be building a committee of inquiry to find out why this is causing you so much nerve? Because nerves in the end won't lead you to good.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u113	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u114	Would you like to speak, Mr. Mitsotakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u115	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u116	Mr President, I too would like to speak. I'd like to ask something if she'll answer me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u117	Mr. Gabroglou, would you like to ask the President a question?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u118	Let me finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u119	You will not be chaired below, ladies and gentlemen. I'm preside over. It's over. Mr. Mitsotakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u120	Mr. Tsipras, I think you need an emergency vacation. Plus, it's bad, you know, in politics to lose sense of humor. And when the process of constructive criticism is discredited itself through cartooning, then I fully understand how much you have, unfortunately, lost contact with reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u121	Be quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u122	Pick them up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u123	We're not literally picking anyone up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u124	Didn't you pick up Ruvikon here? Will you pick up the MPs?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u125	Mr. Mitsotakis, you have a sense of humor, I recognize it. That's what I meant, you know?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u126	Once again, Mr. Tsipras, you know, it's bad to come to the National Representation so indisputable. And since you mentioned the issues of poor legislation, it would be useful to ask your partners to provide you with the necessary information. No one has questioned from the headquarters of the Officerial Representation that at previous times there has been abuse of the process of long-term and late-term amendments, and in this way the spirit of the Constitution has been circumvented, but also the good legalization of the House. But you, Mr. Tsipras, have exceeded every limit. I mention two points: In the period from 2012 to January 2015, since you wanted to compare yourself with the previous government, in hundreds of three sanctions for international conventions - an exemplary legislative procedure in which no debate should take place on another subject - how many amendments have been tabled, Mr Tsipras? Fourteen amendments were tabled. In the fifty-nine sanctions from January 2015 to March 2017, how many amendments, Mr Tsipras, have they been tabled? Eighty have been deposited! Secondly, I have a second gift for your birthday. Since 1 June 2017, two months exactly, how many amendments have you tabled? You have tabled a hundred and fifty-nine amendments! There they are, here they are. I asked my partners to print them. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I will submit them for the Minutes as the best proof of the way in which you have chosen to benefit from the legislative procedure. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would remind you that you are the one who, among the many other things that you said in the election, came to power denouncing the way in which the previous government legislated, to come here to exceed every limit on the misuse of the instrument of the amendment, to promote your own legislative agenda. I would remind you that most of the amendments you have mentioned are not amendments which have been made to the Memorandum of Understanding. They are ruffles of the last moment you pass to serve your own electoral clients. And that's not what you want to talk about, and obviously, you don't even want them to be costed. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I now come now, shortly, to the issues of education and the question of the evaluation to which you have referred. Is there, Mr. Tsipras, an evaluation without that? Is there an evaluation without any consistency? The evaluation why is it being done? Why do we consume time and food substance to evaluate faces and procedures? For two reasons: The first is to reward the distinguished ones. In the case of civil servants, to reward those worthy civil servants who are currently holding public services, the National Health System, our schools. And there are ways of rewarding them, and that was our suggestion in the bill on evaluation, which, of course, you rushed to abolish, enabling them to move faster within the yearbook of civil servants. The second reason why we are evaluating, Mr Tsipras, is that we can find a way to work out those who do not pay. Do you consider it reasonable today in public administration at the level of people or at the level of structures to have civil servants or services that do not respect taxpayers' money? And when we find out what the consequences must be? Once again you came to the National Representation by saying a great lie, that allegedly 15% - was not 25%, you also know the relevant law - of the officials who would rank in the lowest category, would be officials with a specified future. You're lying one more time. And you're lying, because you know very well that the relevant law stated that the evaluation process could not lead to redundancies. But it suits you - you know - this distortion of reality and the image of the effort to resolve public administration, as you want to present it. For the only thing you do, Mr Tsipras, and unfortunately in public administration, is to resurrect the bad customer practices of the past and return to the public administration whose affairs are currently being discussed, or rather not discussed, on the disciplinary boards, which you have actually called on to cancel with the legislative changes you have brought. Let me make a brief reference to the issues of western Athens. Mr Tsipras, you know, I have been elected in western Athens for many years and you should understand and understand it once and for all, gentlemen of SYRIZA, that you do not have in this Chamber the privilege of social sensitivity. Understand it very well! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And you do not have it because today, Mr. Tsipras, the inhabitants of western Athens and the rest of the degraded neighbourhoods of the country pay the consequences of your own policy. When it comes to reducing duty, Mr Tsipras, because it will reduce tax on the basis of the provisions you have voted on and will go down to EUR 5,600 or EUR 5,700 - who will pay the bill? The rich or the poor? When pensions are reduced in the fourth memorandum, which you have already legislated and want to make us forget about, who will pay the bride, Mr Tsipras? The rich or the poor? When in western Athens today - I do not know what the last time you visited it, I would really recommend, and I say it with good will, take a walk and see the situation that prevails - there are today conditions of generalised lawlessness in Minidi, in Ano Liosia, in Cameroon, who pays the bride, Mr Tsipras? The poor or the rich who can also ensure for their own care? So enough with this candy of class social sensitivity. Unfortunately, the weakest are the victims of your own policy. Once again, you have referred to the issue of Mr Varoufakis, and what is known and what is not known, I will tell you again, Mr Tsipras, that it is not all known. And what happened that first seven months of 2015 is not washed off by the fact that you won another election in September 2015. And it is not primarily washed out because the financial consequences of this catastrophic seven-month period are still accompanying us. We still have Capital Controls. The damage to the banks was huge. The Greek government's assets have been dismantled. The economy went down to recession. The third memorandum was the result of these political choices. The fourth memorandum, namely the reductions in wages and pensions and the reduction in duty-free, - which has been binding on the country since 2019 - is the result of your government incapacity after September. And that account is all yours, Mr. Tsipras! Therefore, do not try to convince us and convince the Greek society that this is a period that only concerns historians. They don't care about historians. Its consequences are here today with us. The revelations are such that sooner or later we'll find out the truth. And you should be the first to have the courage in this Chamber to say 'yes, to be a committee of inquiry, to learn the truth', to submit your own views too, to come Mr Varoufakis. You insist that you present Mr. Varoufakis as about an ally of the New Democracy. I will tell you clearly, Mr Varoufakis has a huge responsibility for what happened at the time, but you have a greater responsibility, for appointing him, for consulting him and for putting up with him for seven months. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Two examinations have been requested, Mr Tsipras, in writing. The first examination concerns what took place in the first seven months of 2015 and the second examination concerns the case of Mr Kammenos. The debate on the case of Mr Kammenos will take place after the summer holidays, and that is where you should explain to the House why you so passionately defend a minister who has publicly confessed to talking to a drug- condemned prisoner. I know this will be a difficult conversation for you, so take your vacation powers, please, when the House opens again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u127	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u128	You have the floor for a while.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u129	Since the Chief of Officerial Representation wished me a mild and indeed a ton of civil courtesy "good holidays" I will not miscarriage him. Besides, it seems that he needs it himself in particular. Indeed, your dentures were in mild tones just to avoid being identified with what I accused you of, for the many nerves. But I will say two things, Mr Mitsotakis. Mr. Mitsotakis, we do not claim the privilege of social sensitivity, alas! But the Greek people, and especially those who we want to represent, and that is why you often accuse us of class bias and social bias - and today you said it - that we want to equilibrium them all down and we do not let some people climb - these social categories have memory and know very well who they were who managed their expectations, their hopes in a client state that you have built over these years, who have plundered the potential of this place without building any infrastructure for these years of development and they know and who have been those who have been bankrupt the country. And in the years of the memorials, in the first catastrophic five years, because you failed to parachute in the country, Mr Mitsotakis, Minister of Government of Samaras - Venizelos, you - these people were almost like people of a lower god. And this seems not only from the cuts you have made, but also from your choice to deal with hostility, with hatred among people who mostly come from these social strata, such as the cleansers of the Ministry of Finance, who have now been justified thanks to our own efforts. We, Mr Mitsotakis, have indeed received the country in an unprecedented state of looting, suffocation and bankruptcy. You left it there and had drawn up the 'parenthood' plan. But step by step, hard work, we manage and we open up paths of perspective. Within this very difficult effort we always have our concern for those social charges that you have used as a client-to-people and the first destructive five years you have escaped to Cavalas. I would therefore like you to believe that, because they will not do you any good, I repeat, neither the nerves nor the constant return to the past - the political controversy to be made on the programmes and positions for the future for the next day. What do you have to compare beyond your misery, your constant carter, and we are stumbled on the first and second evaluations, the misery with which you have dealt with the country's successful exit to the markets, your constant effort to undermine what can be done in this place that has actually been diagnosed over the years? So come and talk about these people today and tomorrow. Because the first legislative initiative that we brought to Parliament was to deal with the humanitarian crisis, which you did not believe, you did not want to accept that there is the term 'humanitarian crisis' at the place. And today we have 1,57 billion euros from about 650 million for the social income of solidarity, for these people, and in 2019 we will have EUR 2,57 billion for these people, which you call 'friendship', 'flying', you tell us that school meals are charity, and we do indeed want in conditions of crisis, dissolution, plundering that you brought, to rebuild a social state, which you did not build in the years of great prosperity. Mr Mitsotakis, I would like to close by telling you that our major differences in the field of education are given priority, there is no doubt about that. And don't now try to pretend that you're coming to be interested in the social majority. As with us, in our policy, there is - and I admit - social bias and class division many times, so from your side there is.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u130	There is no bias from us!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u131	However, the bias that you breathe from your intentions and suggestions is the bias for the few, the bias for those who have succeeded in the years of development and have not taken the oars in the years of the crisis. So I close by telling you that I really hope that these holidays will at least eradicate your nerves, because the political life of the place needs conflicts over the real arguments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u132	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u133	Come on, Mrs. Vulture! What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u134	Don't prove you need it, Mrs. Vulture. You do need a vacation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u135	That's what you said, "sea", "sicken up"!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u136	Please don't say that, and it's a very delicate matter for the psychiatric services.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u137	What I said, Mrs Vulture, is that instead of presenting a proposal for a committee of inquiry every 15 days, consider the problems of the realities and your proposals on how the country will come out of the crisis and open an exit corridor. Whether you want it or not, we're opening a runway. In the field of education, too, we are making major institutional reforms needed both by the place and by the public administration and by the social state. At the same time, however, we are opening up the prospect of getting out of the bankrupt, in which you have submerged the Greek people and the country. As long as you discover, as much as you make Mr Varoufakis your main ally in your politics, you will not succeed in persuading the Greek people, because you have been judged in the past and, above all, you do not have an opinion on the next day. So do commissions of inquiry to find out the causes of your problems and the cause of your problems is that you went bankrupt the country, that you have a class-shaped majority and you do not have a positive proposal for a large social majority. This is why in 2019, when the Greek people compare where we were when we received and where we will be when we go back to the polls, they will not choose you as much as you set pleasant communication performances on hay in hay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u138	Thank you. I very much ask the President of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr. Gennimata to come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u139	Mr President, I would like my question to be recorded to Mr Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u140	It can't be done, Mr. Gavroglou. He's leaving. Didn't he agree to ask and answer, did you not understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u141	All right, but the question has to be recorded, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u142	Excuse me, Mrs. Gennamas. Okay, tell her now to record the question. The parliamentary representative is here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u143	Excuse me, Mrs. Gennamas.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u144	Now that's never happened before. But record the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u145	Who hasn't happened before? A lot has never happened before, Mrs. Gennamas.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u146	But he's not even in there to listen to you. The President has given me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u147	That is not possible, Mr President. This is unprecedented! Sit down! It's rude what you're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u148	All right, all right. Let go of the rage! This has been left out of the previous procedure. He's the Minister who suggests the bill, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u149	You invited her to Stepma! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u150	Stop the wrath and stop the "dream", you say it from morning to night! Mrs. Christophilopoulou, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u151	Mr President, have you given me the floor, yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u152	Now why do you want to embarrass me? You do it on purpose, okay?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u153	I don't want to embarrass you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u154	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u155	Mr. Gabroglou, please tell me your question. After Mrs. Gennamas. What to do, it's no different.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u156	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u157	It's rude what you're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u158	Is PASOK bothering you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u159	PASOK isn't the fault of anything, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u160	Oh, it's not!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u161	It's funny, because it's usually the fault of everything. Ladies and gentlemen, we have unfortunately followed one of the same things today. A process of polarization between SYRIZA and New Democracy, a process that was exhausted in a debate last night, and we had to talk about tomorrow, about the future, because we are talking about education, about the future that is the new generation and the possibilities that we had to ensure for the young children of the country today. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] And because I see you have a problem with the examinations and it creates an irritation on both sides, I have a solution for you. You have nothing but to sign the one and only examination for the economy, to find out what happened at the place from the day we entered the euro until today, of course with priority over the last few years, because everything has to come to light. Stop, finally, playing with the agony of children and their families. Monday, Wednesday, Friday remove the pan-Hellenics, Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday this prospect is removed and remain, because it is the only unstable system. Decide, finally, and end to toys. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] The regulations made by the government turn higher education decades back. They are destroying everything that has been done positively in recent years. Ideas, party logic, interventions very far from today's needs, but also modern trends, European and international. This anachronistic concept, of course, is at the heart of the SYRIZA - ANEL political choices. It doesn't surprise us. This isn't the first time. A lot of big words, so-called progressive policy. Continuously new narratives, but in practice regression and adverse developments on all fronts. Mr. Tsipras fantasizes an unexistent reality. Having been closed to the audited audiences on his way from the Maximos Mansion to the Concert Hall of Music, he finds them all wonderful. Unfortunately, the laughable people who see him welcome are only his MPs and poster officials appointed by his government. The others, the many Greeks, don't laugh at all. In particular, these days in which they began paying the instalments of the very heavy tax they imposed. The same, of course, is true of the hundreds of thousands of retired people waiting for up to two and a half years to get the paid pension, according to the Katrugalou law. And of course, the low pensioners who experience the abolition of the ESS. Just the same thing is happening with the young children. 75% of young people are disappointed and are looking for outlets in other countries. They want to get out of here. And instead of talking about all of this, we have the sterile confrontation permanently, on a permanent basis, in all Parliament's procedures. The same for hundreds of thousands of private sector workers, which many of them work, without being paid and completely abandoned by the Ministry of Labour. It's not, he says, his responsibility to deal with. I wonder exactly what his responsibilities are. Employers arbitrarily destroy laws and conventions. This is the reality that Greek citizens experience in the country. And if Mr. Tsipras wakes up from the dreams of the summer night, he'll see it, but it's already too late for him and his government co-pilot. The Greeks and Greeks demand to learn the whole truth about the dangerous and artifacts of Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Varoufakis, who led to the recession, the new memorials, the surveillance by 2060, the loss of 100 billion from the Greek economy and the tradition to the foreign hands of the national wealth for ninety years. The meetings, the conspiracies, the secret contacts with Madour, the sms about Grexit must be explored and investigated. As much as Mr Tsipras stubbornly denies transparency in his and his Government regarding the preparatory actions for the change of currency, the truth will come to light and it will be a dala noon, as we have been told in previous years. The control will be carried out and the responsibilities will be charged. Citizens are already turning their backs to SYRIZA - ANEL and looking for a truly progressive proposal for the governance of the site, a request to which the Democratic Comparison meets the "Greek Plan". Ladies and gentlemen, our prolongation, the democratic progressive party had, and will have as its strategic priority the possibility of equal access to high-level education for every new Greek and Greek. For us, the educational system is a key factor in the development of the country. It is, however, also a pillar of the social state, because it can redistribute opportunities mainly to young people in need. Today our great bet is to invest in knowledge with a modern educational system at all levels. We want public education to be a tool for overcoming the crisis. And it can be done with a proper and comprehensive plan. The main prerequisite for this is national consultation in the country and, in particular, the issues relating to education, consultation which we are constantly pursuing and which we have done in education policies: With the proposals, above all, which we tabled to the House during the debate on a pre-dated order a year ago. With the positions we have presented to the President, unfortunately, barren and failed national dialogue between Mr. Phile, which Mr. Gavroglou has demonstrated. With efforts to improve the bills of the Ministry of Education, which unfortunately have been afflicted by the Minister's intransigence. With the presentation of our comprehensive proposal for secondary education, the new high school, technical education, in the dialogue that took place throughout the country in the light of our recent conference. Secondary education that supports a strong economy and is interconnected with the country's innovation, economic development and sustainability. [[The President-in-Office of the Council, Mr DIMITRIOS KAMMEINOS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Unfortunately, the current government has shown that it does not believe in dialogue. There was no respect for any proposal that was not its hard partisan kernel. SYRIZA, while inhabiting words, leads with his policies to the deterioration of public education. Behavioural status, he's trying to control partition everything. It only supports syndicated logic and practices. He's trying to create excellence and progress. It dreams of a state-run and not a public system - it has a lot of difference - with a level of downwards. In practice, he makes a hard class choice. Because bad and degraded public education, for those who do not have the financial resources, widens the disparities in favour of those who can study either in private education or abroad. But the worthy young people are in all the social strata and no one has the right to deny them the opportunity to evolve, to claim a better life in their country. On the other hand, the New Democracy is cultivating fear through a one-dimensional emergence of the problems and the outbreaks of integration into public education. It can thus rally its own conservative audience, but it is increasingly removed from the important problems, needs and challenges that public education has to face. More and more, New Democracy, in this way, is the same as those who exploit the depreciation of the EHS, to fruit this development site and resource of the country for their own benefits. In any case, however, the result is exactly the same: SYRIZA and New Democracy despise public education. Our people have nothing essential, nothing different, no new visions or political initiatives for better education. Ladies and gentlemen, today the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is going on another disastrous step, this time for higher education. Again, it engraves with so-called enemies and again destroys what is on the altar of a so-called left and philosophical policy. In tertiary education, our resignation has left considerable reserves. Both Law 1268/1982 and Law 4009/2011 constituted two progressive reforms that were erupted for their time. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] They responded to the needs and requirements of the times. The first for democratisation and the second for the qualitative upgrading and the European orientation of HEIs. Laws 1404/1983 and 2916/2001 on the highest technological institutions. Today, the Government of the SYRIZA - ANEL comes to dismantle Mr.4009/2011, not least that he was accepted by an impressively large majority in Parliament, with two hundred and fifty five MPs, some of whom today, as parliamentarians and majority ministers, will do exactly the opposite, self-determination once again. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] This bill attempts a state-owned and party hugging of the AEIs. The Minister becomes the great master. This bill undermines the prospect of internationalisation of higher institutions, reaps the co-operation with emerging scientific and academic forces in the administration and the course of the institutions. It attacks the autonomy and self-government of the institutions and ignores the necessary linkage between higher education and economic and development. It is an outdated framework of arrangements that deals much with trivial and worthless issues and, unfortunately, does not open up and respond to any modern innovative progressive issue and a project. And they do not save him some fragmentary provisions, which we self-evidently agree with and are already implemented by certain institutions such as the latter for free postgraduate students in economically weaker students. How much more so when the overall framework for postgraduate studies is not based essentially on evaluation, actual costing and does not respect autonomy in the scientific work of the institutions. At the same time, this bill plays with the favourite issues of leftist logic. SYRIZA delivers the foundations to the immunity of known groups and to lawlessness. Surveys on student groups, tricks to help their own in the procedures for the election of the Republican authorities, and of course, as the government is used to, a series of provisions for the service of others, which were not even put into consultation with the citizens and the institutions. The government majority of SYRIZA and ANEL will also vote for these provisions. We have no doubt at all. But we are telling you today that this law will not be long. It will soon be a past. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] The Democratic Reconciliation will now, but also after the elections, put its proposal for a comprehensive modern European education framework as a central point of the national line needed for the place. Ladies and gentlemen, our proposal concerns an integrated framework for the liberalisation and autonomy of higher institutions, strengthening their extroversion and internationalisation, restoring with the necessary improvements and the Foundation's councils with a crucial role in interconnecting them with the economy, development, international experience, modern developments at last. We have presented a comprehensive framework with participation by students in the institutions with the right to vote, but only in matters relating to students, as defined in the regulations of each institution, with representatives elected by a single ballot and a universal secret electronic vote. We have already presented a comprehensive framework for school, high school, technical education, introduction to higher education. [[This is where the closed doorbell of the speaker's speaking time is ringing.]] I'm gonna need a few more minutes, Mr. President. Our main priorities are the redesign and new placement of higher education in order to support and participate in national, regional and local development with an educational polo per region and respect for the number of students proposed by the institutions themselves that they can train. In order to introduce students, we have proposed that they should take place on the basis of the national sanitary certificate in accordance with European standards. Evaluation everywhere and for all the factors of higher education and the connection of state funding to the achievement of the objectives of each institution. A burden on the use of new technology and its transmission, since the economy, entrepreneurship and society's needs are changing rapidly. Link to innovation and research, both in the public and private sectors. Foreign language undergraduate and postgraduate for foreign students with tuition. Our proposal is very clear. And leave the specula, Minister, on this issue. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Postgraduate curricula decided by the institutions themselves, but evaluated, are all costed by the ADI, with scholarships for the excellent, but also for the economically weaker. Free organization of remote courses, distribution learning and e-learning, for all programs possible. More international mobility programmes for students and teachers. Exploiting the Greek scientists of dispersion and incentives to those who want to work in the Greek institutions. Resolution of the major problem of professional rights in connection with the National Framework of Professional Qualifications in which each degree corresponds. In our proposal, public education institutions are the core of education, education and research. There, we turn our interest. This is our responsibility towards the young people of the country and their families. That is why we must protect the freedom of movement of ideas completely, research, teaching and indeed protect the institutions from logic which, in the name of asylum, turn them into places of lawlessness and criminality. No tolerance to these logics. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] We, with our policy, will ensure in competition the position of the public HEIs and the more general improvement of quality. With strong public higher education institutions there is no reason for us not to move forward with a modern framework for the establishment and functioning of non-governmental, non-governmental universities in our country. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Only thus will higher education be a key lever for the country and will turn Brain drive into Brain game, attracting our human potential within and outside Greece. At this juncture, it will make a decisive contribution to getting out of the crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, we call on the academic community as a whole in dialogue, to form together the next day, but also the political parties, all the active forces of production and society. Because the upgrading of education is a national issue and requires consultation and a legislative framework with a duration which exceeds a government mandate, away from the logic of the decline in this bill. Fortunately, Minister, the Greek universities and the higher technological educational institutions are and will be more resilient than your Government, because they are not looking for the future in the recipes of the past, but a future that lasts for the best traditions, values and prospects of higher education. Mr Tsipras once again left the Chamber in his favorite tactics, and I am sorry that you have missed another opportunity to consult and continue your divisive and polaristic logic and practices in this very sensitive area of education. I'm really sorry about the new kids in the country watching us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u162	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gennamas. I would ask the President of the Central Association, Mr Vassili Leventis, to come to Step for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u163	Thank you very much. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to welcome you in my turn. I followed the speeches by Mr Tsipras and Mr Mitsotakis. Mr Tsipras said: 'You did the same,' and Mr Mitsotakis is as if New Democracy were now born and has no responsibility for what is happening today. It is a common picture of conflicts in the Chamber, barren, fruitless and with no purpose, with the sole aim of resting crowds through televisions, seeing each of their leaders and rejoicing. That's the picture. When you tell SYRIZA: "What are you doing?", he answers "But, you have done the same forty years." When you say to the New Democracy: "Why didn't you do it, since you were?" you don't get an answer. The House also thinks that we are in a good hurry and that the people are undermining Parliament after that. Since Mr. Spirtzis is here, what about the tolls, Mr. Spirtzi, so I don't forget? Will you tell me 'not about education' but about all these discussions about education?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u164	It's about education.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u165	I don't think it was anything to do with education. I'll tell Mr. Gabroglou next. From all this conversation that took place all these days, was it about education? I don't think so. I mean, we can build something. The tolls, what about the tolls? In other words, we made some roads so people couldn't get through, wanting people's money to go through the streets under banning conditions. You said that you were against the contractors, you considered the contractors and made contracts from which we cannot deviate, because the contracts require one and the other. So pay, people! That's the toll. And you walk around the streets and you don't see a man, you don't see a car. It's Saturday, it's Sunday, it's days when there's traffic, and it's like it's like a plague. So, what's going to happen? We built streets to get through who? When will the kilometre charge that you promise, which is the request of some who live in the area of each toll, and, to go to their field, spend two - three times the toll on a daily basis? When will this request be accepted so that one who is in his area can go to his field can go to his uncle without paying? I doubt you've thought about it. I doubt it. I heard the Prime Minister who said: Why are you sad? We - says - have brought the law of New Democracy to the subject of university asylum? Why are you sad? We just abolished the PASOK law. So that's why Mr. Tsipras got out? To restore New Democracy's asylum legislation? Because the New Democracy remembers what it had to say about asylum. Then she allegedly acceded to the opinions of Diamantopoulou and now resents why we return to hers. I don't understand. Mr. Mitsotakis is gone. I understand why he's gone. You don't have to. Because the New Democracy which Mr Tsipras has adopted its own asylum positions is saddened. I, because I'm the generation of the Polytechnic, I want you to know that with the asylum I have a sensitivity. You know it yourself. I could never stop the asylum. Asylum is linked to the history of universities. I think there should be. We just have to have university police to avoid immunity. This must be done and there must be severe penalties for students and much more for those who enter the universities in order to do damage, destroy property, etc. The asylum needs for the students. We don't abolish the asylum because it's over. What's over? At any time it can be at risk again. So where this country, with democracy - you will allow me - which is not guaranteed, however much the Chamber believes that our democracy is guaranteed, asylum is the last disguise of young people to react to the authoritarianism and fascism of a regime. And we're legally going to abolish it? I support the asylum. I just support the asylum for students, not for bullies, who infiltrate the universities in order to destroy. And whoever protects such trumpets is not a democrat. I would like to say something about both the President of Parliament and the Ruvikon. People came in and the police did their duty. Arrest some. And he took - he says - by consensus the President of Parliament was released, because he did not consider that this evidence to be bad evidence. "Ruvikon" also has a past. Isn't that right? Was he always throwing cards in the past? In the past, there's tramps, and there's disasters. With what right does Mr. Voutsis arrange for what is being arrested and what is allowed? What right? Are we choosing, in other words, by the organisations that are closest to each other, and are we protecting them and the non-friends who are pursuing them? I don't understand. The President of Parliament has been making great mistakes lately. He forgets that he is the President of the Chamber and thinks he is a representative of SYRIZA alone. And that won't do him any good if he keeps protecting these kinds of actions. The police considered that they had to be arrested, located, found out who Greece is, etc. And justice would decide whether or not the arrest would be adopted in court and whether it would be carried out. Justice should be. Is the President of this House afraid of justice? There is a question of justice now. When we like a decision of justice, justice is good. For example, Mr. Tsipras praised justice today - why? - because he was right to the cleaners. When justice itself condemned his Minister for the four permits, justice was bad. That's a nice thing! Whenever we like a decision, it's good justice, whenever we don't like it, it's bad. Today he praised himself here, even though he is not in the Chamber, the justice that made a decision on the cleaners. And the cleaners, we all like them, and we all want them to have a job. But for the hundred thousand other cleaners who are unemployed what did the Hall do? Are there only certain cleaners right? Is that all they need to eat bread? For the thousands of other cleaners who are unemployed, what did Mr. Tsipras do? We say "eternal students" and describe some who, due to circumstances, did not attend and did not receive their degree and say that after a period of time they must lose the student's status. In this case, on the contrary, we would ask that some of the diplomas be obtained once. Nor is there any cost in universities by so-called 'eternal students'. What do they do? I had in Thessaloniki a old man who wanted to finish medicine, not to practice the medical service, just to get the doctor's license. It was his dream. Will SYRIZA forbid him? Will New Democracy forbid him? I don't get it. If he is willing, if the teachers go through someone, is the so-called 'eternal student' harming something? And this phrase "eternal student" is a little offensive, because next to an eternal student there is an eternal unrepentant to learn, one who, instead of being in the cafes, is struggling to gain knowledge. We are insulting the individual, when we call him an eternal student, in the opinion of the Centro Association. As far as private universities are concerned, the New Democracy says 'we should have done private universities'. Indeed, Mr Kumucasakos mentioned the example of a doctorate who gave Tsipras to Turkey, which is at a private university. And he says, "How do you blame the private universities in Turkey when you go and get a doctorate?" Listen, gentlemen, the Centro Association at this stage is against private universities. And you know why? How did it happen with ERT? ERT was a state channel. When the private channels were founded, Terence Quick, so many others, Stay who worked at the ERT went to the private channels, after they gave them something more obviously and ERT declined. In other words, in a party society where propaganda reigns, you can't now get ERT to compete with Shortmenas or Vardinoyannis or Marinakis. You cannot, because private individuals have the flexibility to give more to executives and to dehydrate state television and in this regard state universities. Greece must press the party and then set up what you want, because if we now set up private universities - which is simple - the best professors of the ERCF, Metsovio, Kapodistrian, will go to private universities. And then where will the young man study? And don't forget, Mr. Mitsotakis, you're missing, you're certainly watching from your dressing room - and I'm saying "camarini" and I'm not saying "a desk", because it has become a theatrical performance here, since every time they give a theatrical performance about who will be in a difficult position - that he wants some tuition fees for the private university, some 10,000, 15000 euros a year. Does all the people have them? But rather than go out, he says. Yes, but here, there is a greater risk: to exterminate state universities, that is to say, to take the individual outfit of the teachers and get to what ERT is, which has 1% audience. And which one of you wants to go to the ERT, at the same time summoning him to the "AND1"? Nobody. If there's a day left, you want ERT. And that's a crime. Do you know why she's been devalued? Because it's a party. If you listen to the discussions, especially on a show called the "Retirement Room", everyone SYRIZA! Even the right - some of them "broken" right-wing workers working on right-hand literature - and they SYRIZA for their work! I understand, for their work. I now come to the amendments. Mr Mitsotakis brought a paw and said: 'The amendments are too many'. Indeed, the thing is getting out of hand. The Members do not have time to read them. And you SYRIZA MPs, who are present in the Chamber, are sure you can't read them. You can't even read the bill, not the amendments. And many of the amendments are suspicious and obviously paperwork. And Mr Tsipras answers: 'You have all done the same.' Nice alibi! After the others did it, he does it. Nice alibi! To be examined in court by the guilty party and to say "but others were stealing" and to be exonerated! I mean, to God! They said that in June PPC went bankrupt. What happened and PPC resurrected? He took it from the world, sucked the world up. What else can I say? I was described by a police officer as a scene: he went to PPC, to the Settlement Department and was full of sweaty people, dead people, who sweared the politicians. What are these things? What picture? Are you proud of PPC? How was PPC resurrected? In June he was going bankrupt. A factory was destroyed, damage reached 1.5 billion euros, and despite this PPC was resurrected. Whose money was PPC resurrected with? Simple civilians. Where is Mr. Mitsotakis to remember that? Mr. Mitsotakis remembers that when he was Minister of Administrative Reform he did not fire. I am certain that many who have fake degrees, many doctors who gave papers to supposedly undefeated, have not been prosecuted. I'm absolutely sure. A hundred Mitsotakis to pass through Administrative Reformation, the doctors who gave papers to health caregivers, to receive a blind allowance are still there and continue. I have also learned that many who are being persecuted, because the redundancies committees, disciplinary proceedings, etc., remain in their positions. In other words, as a pedophile, one now remains for two, three years because the respective committees do not meet, there is no composition. On the subject of Mr Varoufakis, Mr. Tsipras says that he is a minister who disagreed with his government and now he is a prosecutor and has become a partner of Mr. Mitsotakis. So we have to wait for more, by the current ministers, for there to be new partners, because this test has not been completed. Is he lying to Barofakis, that he informed the council that we could get the money from the Mint? Did he get it down from his head? Why don't you disprove him, rather than the image of academic conversation comes up, what happened, he says, an academic conversation. But the country was coming to an end! Foreigners were being sent out! They were Shoeble's interlocutors! And the parallel payment, the parallel currency, the stealing of money from the Mint. Why does the Prime Minister refuse to consider? I am not in favour of the committees of inquiry. I know all the committees of inquiry that we're doing are thunder. They won't pay anything, Mr. Madda. Nothing will pay off. All of them, the Health Committee and others! Put it all on. And hope they will. So I'm telling you, we're losing working hours. But what is it that keeps Mr. Tsipras from putting his own space for examination? Is he afraid of something? Oh, no. The same applies to the Minister of Defence. They're asking for the exam. It says ‘Examination for everything?’. What "for every examination"? After your exams, the others will do their homework. Greece will become a court of law and the House of Judiciary, where nothing will come out and the people will know that we are not dealing with its problems, but we are dealing with who we will call a thief from the Chamber. I would like to say a few words on the issue of the media. ‘ALPHA’ and other channels stop on the river. I have nothing with the river. Talk about the river. It is the last party I will say not to talk about. But, when an announcement is made by AlPHA, even the 'ANT1', they say about the PASOK, about the JRC, about the Potami, as if there were no Centron Union. We have sent regular announcements to the Athenian Agency. They're not transmitting them. Where's Mr. Poppas telling us about this? We want our communications. We're a parliamentary party. I don't get it. So is there any racism not to broadcast the Centro Association's announcements, which are always modest in relation to the other parties that are little - very much co-operated with others? We never played any game. We always have our views on everything. What, then, does the people not want to know about the Centro Association's communication? I personally call on Mr Pappa to know that if this racism against the Centro Union continues, I will refer to the PSE and to him for not complying with the procedure. Tell me, what does he care about Mr. Pappa? They do not care about the committees of inquiry requested by the New Democracy. However, I do not think you have the right to exclude a parliamentary party when it is a moderate party. I want the Greek people to know our announcements. So that's what I want. Is it heavy what I want? What displeased is what I'm asking? You can all watch in this Chamber the announcements of the parties to "ALPHA", "ANT1", etc., today - you can also have a retrospective Internet and you can see - if the Centron Union is included in the announcements. Watch, because I want to believe, since you say you're a fair government, that you're annoyed when you see injustice. Unless you're happy!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u166	Check yourself out first and then they'll take you out on the channels...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u167	Please. Let the President continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u168	I don't understand what the lady said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u169	Ask me if you want...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u170	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u171	Go on, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u172	They also told the Minister on the issues of the PPE. They came and found me university and told me that for 20 years the universities did not ask for any participation in the PPE. They're asking for a breakthrough, which Mr. Friends did for companies when they're corporations. When they're natural, he didn't. The Minister, as I have heard, now says he will put in instalments and the instalments he will make will be up to a tenth of each debtor's salary. They will, however, resort to justice, because they consider that the state cannot come after twenty years and ask when the rector authorities do not do anything required for twenty years. Why are you swinging your head, Mr. Manda? We'll see if the universities get anything. We'll see. My own Minister said he would. I asked him in the lobby here. After receiving, he says, two letters and he's afraid to do so if he was accused of helping not to pay anyone. The passages always, gentlemen, whether they are the IRS or anything, are displeased by the legitimate, because the one who has paid the right is affected when a finalisation takes place and the other is paying part. But they will resort to justice and the state will take nothing. My Minister had told me he would do that. I resorted to him after my desperate approach to the body of dentists of higher schools. They are about three thousand people who will be destroyed in this way. And I don't think the state gets anything. Courts will start. I had to be more kind, in my humble view, to see the Minister. The Union of Centres has called for the number of MPs from the three hundred to become two hundred. Do you approve, gentlemen of SYRIZA? I haven't received an answer. In the Netherlands, there are seventeen million people and fifty parliamentarians. I don't understand. A political system calling for a reduction in expenditure what is afraid of?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u173	Mr President, with all due respect, let us take this into account because we have exceeded time if you are kind enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Mr President. Also, some of the institutions of colleges, such as Deree and Anatolia in Thessaloniki, have not been recognized for their professional activities, while others have been recognized. What kind of racism is that, but should we not recognise others? I don't understand that. Who have barbas on the Koronis and who don't? In the polls I have asked for an independent authority to be set up to monitor the findings and, after they have been checked, to be announced to the press and the channels. What's the delay? I have discussed this since last year with Mr. Tsipras. Why doesn't he do it so that we can at least guarantee democracy? Because if polls are in the air, they're in the air and democracy. Everyone can't take whatever numbers they're in and they want. In the name of Skopje - to conclude - I did not get an answer. I said that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs still has, today we are talking about, the country's joint decision-making website! - a composite name containing the term 'Macedonia'. This is the country's official position. Mr. Mitsotakis rightly pointed it out. So it is his position, too, that of Mr Mitsotakis, to give the word 'Macedonia'. Only Mr. Mitsotakis isn't a Macedon, he's a Cretan. And it seems that we are happy to give the region of the other. If it were, for example, for Crete, would the Macedonians give it? I don't think they'd give her. I don't think it's because the Macedonians are philosophers. However, we must not have a debate in this House in order to update the 2006 decision, to know who gives the word 'Macedonia' and who not? I want to know about the New Democracy. Does the word "Macedonia" give it? Negotiations will begin. Mr. Javarras is laughing. You're not a Macedon, too. But it's not about who's Macedon and who's not.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u175	We're all Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u176	You are Greeks, but you have given it the word with great pleasure. And old Mitsotakis, if I'm not mistaken, said to give it up in ten years, and we'll have forgotten it, Mr. Javara.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u177	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u178	You don't? Isn't that right? Everything I'm misinformed about. Everything I'm misinformed about. Informed is only New Democracy
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u179	Let's not open a dialogue, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u180	I want to say one last word about education. Papanoutsos stayed in history - now that Mr Gavroglou has come and will listen to me - because he has made the least of the changes. He believed them and fought for their implementation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u181	Mr President, you have spent twice your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u182	Here we have a law of Diamantopoulou that you dumped in the trash and another law of Mr. Gavroglou declared by the New Democracy today that she will throw him in the trash. That's what we got. But throwing each other's laws into trash is not a Parliament. I don't know how you see the people in front or not or in the presence of policemen, I don't know how. But it is not dealing with this one throwing another’s legislation into trash. And it is also not about bringing provisions on submarines into the education law. It's not your honor, Mr. Gavroglou. What are you going to do, you'll tell me, since you're in this government minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u183	What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u184	What to do. It's okay. It may not be your fault, too, for what is happening today.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u185	Mr President, with respect for both the rest and Mr Theodorakis, please be briefed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u186	I'm sorry about the look, Mr. Theodorakis, and if I've exceeded time. You know, we'll pay for submarines in the law of education. The Centro Association has also called for an airplane to take much more. And I said they came out and said I asked. Yes, but not the law of education. I do not understand that, in the law of education, we are going to pay the workers of the Scaramaga Shipyards. That's ridiculous, Mr. Cammene. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u187	Thank you very much. Mr. Theodorakis, thank you for your patience. The President of the River Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u188	Ladies and gentlemen, with the right to give me the fact that I am perhaps the only political leader who keeps time, I would like to address the individual Member, but also the House, and to say that he has to stop this resilience. Either we completely abolish the timer and say free debate or we keep the time. [[Applause from the river wing]] It is unacceptable that the Prime Minister and the Chief of Police Vice-Population had been scheduled to speak thirty-five minutes and spoke two hours. The Prime Minister asked for one minute's intervention and spoke for seventeen minutes. And all this is done in a conversation that some children are probably watching, because it's a discussion about education. Spyros Lykoudis, our Vice-President, has put it in the Conference of Presidents. We're going to put it unequivocally. Either remove clocks or observe time instantly. And it is the responsibility of the Bureau, Mr Voutsi, first of all, to keep the time. There are people watching us and they don't realize how parliament can be out of order. So let's go to the fourteen minutes left. First of August, students are absent, teachers are absent, but the government majority is trying as - as quickly - quickly - to make decisions that will mark the future of teachers, students, universities and society. And it's the fourth of the six episodes of the summer inspection: "Declar, amend, finish." It is the fourth of the six bills that Parliament is invited to vote after discussing them in the air. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin at the end, with the conclusions. The law to be passed today by SYRIZA - ANEL is a conservative law, an old-fashioned law, which strengthens the party rule. It is a law that comes out of the inflamed SYRIZA - ANEL, an aristocratic achetarma with extreme right-hand brakes, a law that casts out young people, a law that deprives hope of those who believe in deserve, a law that keeps the country away from modern European reality. Unfortunately - and I really say it - for you, above all it is the party, compromises and, ultimately, maintenance. In order to be honest, Greece has never succeeded in having universities away from parties, humble interests and evil synagogues. Exceptions have been and exist, but they don't change the rule. The party state has always wanted a university in its footsteps. That is why the law of Diamantopoulou did well, a law passed by two hundred and fifty-five MPs, after eighteen months of consultation, was quickly chanted by ministers of the PASOK, the New Democracy, and now what is left, is the level of SYRIZA - ANEL. Education, based on international and European developments. That is why the crisis in our country is so deep and endless. Because education and universities are a key factor in economic development and social justice. And you, from the beginning, since 2015, have shown that you will follow the old road. Let me remind you of two or three things. You chose regional directors who were all party executives of SYRIZA and ANEL. Everybody. Eleven - two were the sharing between you. Then you changed your way of choosing school managers and making them trade unionists instead of managers. You fell down standards and experimental schools and ran away in front of the Church’s extremists. Restore eternal students and make micro-party games with pan-Hellenic ones. And now it's college time. I will briefly speak about the important trivialities of your law. Autonomous. In developed countries universities enjoy increased autonomy, with evaluation and accountability. Greece has always been - and not just, of course, in your months - a pig for the question of the autonomy of universities. Your law, however, restricts autonomy even further, making universities a branch of the Minister's office. Administration of universities. This is where you put your back. You are removing the boards of institutions, an institution that has been dominating in recent years in all developed countries. Instead of taking advantage of the great Greek teachers who live and divest abroad, instead of enlightening our universities with their experience and ideas, we are kicking them out and, respectively, in the administration of universities, the party student clubs return. Attention, not the students, but the students.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u189	You're wrong. She's universal and secret.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u190	Allow me, Mr. Gabroglou. It is clear that the councils and the presence of foreign teachers who had come to offer the country was always the red cloth for SYRIZA trade unionists at universities. Asylum. Here we are living the complete reversal of reality! The Greek universities do not provide asylum for ideas, but asylum for gangs and houlgians. The ideas, indeed, are persecuted if they do not agree with the slogans written in the walls of the universities. And those with immunity at universities are the small and large police officers of the ideas. The power of these gangs is strengthened by your law and you consciously strengthen them. I'll tell you at the end why. Postgraduate studies. Today they operate postgraduately, which in many cases also helps the labour market - and we are not ashamed to say it - and the universities too. They offer special knowledge and skills and are a source of funding for the institutions, at a time when the state is unable to pay what it needs for education. The obstacles you are currently putting to finance the postgraduate, but also the bureaucratic procedures you impose will also be the tombstone on many of the postgraduate, which means redegrading, again, brain leaks abroad. Foreignlanguage curriculum. You are actually blocking the operation of foreign-language projects that will attract foreign students and multiply the revenues of the institutions. You'll know the recent report from the National Bank. Greece could attract a hundred thousand foreign students and the benefits could reach about one billion eight hundred million. For us, ladies and gentlemen, it should now be time to strengthen dignity, transparency, emancipation and efficiency, to internationalise our universities. Instead, you play with words. You remove words such as 'work market', 'European education area' and you are speaking falsely about social equality. We would have been able to give the poorest children the opportunity to do the studies they would like, the studies they want. When you come out of IGC - you know the investigations - you normally have twice as much income. Higher education, however, unlike primary and secondary education, is unequal. There are social strata that are underrepresented, especially in postgraduate studies. So we must strengthen with scholarships and institutionalise student loans, which students will pay off at low and zero interest rates. Reimbursement quickly or slowly depending on the remuneration they will have in their profession. Recently, ladies and gentlemen, the 'P2 - square', the Institute of our movement, has done a public opinion survey. Eight out of ten consider that the state funding of universities should be combined with the evaluation of each institution. Over 70% of citizens think there should be postgraduate programmes in English. 80% wants to participate in the administration of recognised teachers working in foreign institutions and, of course, feels that the police should intervene immediately and protect students and teachers from violence and criminal behaviour. Of course, the majority of the world is now in favour of establishing non-state universities and is in favour of supporting private research, that is to say, encouraging companies to cover research and innovation costs that the state is unable to finance. They are miserable reactions and they are - let me - double annoying when they come from politicians who have studied abroad. What do some people say in here? "Yes, I had money and studied in London or Boston, but you stay here without alternatives." The positions of society, ladies and gentlemen, are far more advanced than the positions of the government. But why are the SYRIZA ANLE, once again, going back to such an important issue, such as education? I'll tell you why. SYRIZA lost all the battles. He's running with a far-right party. He accepted Mrs Merkel's domination. Sign the creditors' requirements. It made the poorer and medium-sized poor. So what's left of them? A resistance, supposedly, to education, a "antarian", which will give the kiss of life to the frustrated party army. Everything's falling, but we're holding the universities. Not in councils, not in postgraduate, not police. Primary battles of an army that retreats defeat. We, ladies and gentlemen, will insist and invite teachers and students to turn their backs on all those who fight excellence. Provincialism doesn't fit in education. We'll invite students and teachers to resist the action of the party subordinates. No country has come out of the crisis without much change in education. No people went ahead with populism and ideologies. Outward, excellence, innovation, justice. This is our debt to our children and to our place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u191	Thank you very much, Mr Theodorakis. It's a fact that time has been violated. We have asked for it many times and Mr Lykoudi insists. I couldn't agree more with you. Let us move forward, and I ask you very much, to keep the time. Mr Vernadakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u192	The MPs won't talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u193	They'll talk. There are three ministers waiting. Let's talk to you five minutes and they'll be interfered.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u194	I can talk a little later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u195	The next speaker is Mr Mandas.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u196	But Mr. Vernardakis got up. There can be a process. It's not a problem. I'm talking later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u197	I want to make it easier.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u198	We're all trying to make it easier. I've contacted Mr. Manda too. You have the floor, Mr. Bernardakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, Mr President. I'll try to be as soon as possible. I'm sorry if we need to change the procedure. I shall begin with a comment made yesterday by the Minister for Education in his speech. There has never been so much, but so much lack of arguments and rationalisation towards a bill like what we are discussing today. He said something else, which is very serious and which is unfortunately confirmed, as far as I hear this process. Many of the speeches, if they were student papers, would take under the base. Estimates and statements have been heard, which have exceeded every previous one, obviously with the help of some partial media. Let us clarify a few things. The Chief of the New Democracy and a few days ago but also today - he has unfortunately left - said that there will be an exhaustive assessment of the number and fate of the institutions. The position that universities are not assessed, with what this means for education, for teachers, for infrastructures, was a basic idea of the Diamantopoulou Act. He repeated it today and the Chief of New Democracy and the Chief of the River. It's a completely imperceptible and ideological accusation. Why? Firstly, university institutions are evaluated daily and in practice. These are self-evident for those who are academics. We don't have to repeat. They are evaluated, when their graduates are accepted to foreign universities, when students are awarded an award in international competitions, when the teachers of the Greek institutions are accepted to teach abroad when the performance is improved in research, when the hetero-reports of Greek universities present significant records and when the total of Greek universities is located in 5% of the best universities in the world based on the international indicators, even if there is much to do with this methodology of indicators. But the most important thing, which is repeated here in an unprecedented way, is to say. The universities in Greece have been undergoing a thorough evaluation since 2012, based on Diamantopoulou...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u200	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u201	You agree, Mr Mavrotas, but you should also inform Mr Theodorakis. They were evaluated by teams of evaluators, who came from foreign universities - I am not going into the substance process - and they were evaluated for everything. Do we agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u202	That's exactly what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u203	We agree. What about this evaluation? Didn't the myth of the middle and sub-functional universities collapse? Foreign assessors have not found that, in fact, while respecting economic data, underfunding and low wages, etc. the result is impressive, even with regard to global data, that is, what is offered by the Greek universities is much larger, on the basis of what is invested in them? So what does he want to assess? When you talk about evaluation, which is not there for me, and which has never been done and has to be done from now on and for some reason, what exactly do you want to assess? Why don't you ask for the files of the evaluation carried out so that the last Greek citizen, parents and so on can be informed.Huh? It is genuinely regrettable to dress up his political speech about the HEIs with tons of threat: 'an exhaustive assessment'. A lot more so since the world of universities remembers very well that Mr Mitsotakis' involvement in the Ministry of Reconstruction - he has now left the Chamber unfortunately - was identified with the black period of availability and redundancies of hundreds of administrative officials at universities. And, by the way, there is a political issue in which not only the New Democracy, but also the PASOK and the Potami must respond. There is a statement very characteristic of the Vice President of the New Democracy, Mr.Georgiadis, in an event of a well-known private college some time ago: "The private colleges in Greece, mostly, provide better services than the Greek universities." It is very interesting to know whether this position expresses these political parties. University asylum: again and again, again, the same things. It is surprising that both New Democracy and Potami that universities are areas of lawlessness, violence and infraction, which will allegedly be covered by the reinstatement of university asylum. And this position is sad, because it nullifies the Greek universities. How can this happen, and at the same time how can these institutions produce so much quantity and quality of students and knowledge? Is that serious? Unless one wants to advertise the flight of rich students abroad or advertise colleges. And if that is the case, why did the abolition of asylum in the Diamantopoulou Act not eradicate infraction? [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Why is there still a matter? The obsession with the law of Diamantopoulou is perfectly understandable. This law is the emblematic imprint of convergence between neoliberal and modernists. That is why he did not meet the opposition only from the Left, as it is badly said, but also the opposition from the academic right. It is the attack on the great institutional division which took place in 1982 with L.1268. To return to 1982 today speaks a well-known neoliberal daily newspaper. But we should be informed here that in 1982 and Law 1268 is the enlightenment of the Greek university, it is the law that changes all the data. And if we can talk about these successful Greek universities, we owe it to n.1268. Management boards. But the command boards never worked. Shouldn't you tell the leaders of your parties, at least the academics, who are members of the parliamentary groups? If one asks in the universities who sent them, who were indeed people of value and who do not see that, we will hardly remember one, two names. The councils have been devastated. I remember at the large meeting in the Aristotle where an entire university community had to be placed for the redundancies of the administration, and the board would meet after a month, because its teachers and members were abroad. The councils have been devastated. They have, by state, lost the battle of representativeness within the universities themselves, and there is no human being, literally, who remembers them and restores them today, as a logic of restructuring. And the powerful model of modernization: the so-called evaluation. Where there is an evaluation and where there is no evaluation, such as in the postgraduate curriculum, that is, where each institution must have a serious academic and scientific aiming point of view on how it builds the postgraduate, there is a bad thing to do and it is similar to stateism.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u204	Minister, if you'd like, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u205	I shall conclude, Mr President. I'm sorry about the abuse. Let's not hide behind our finger. Some of these postgraduate courses worked as speculators and even old headquarters schemes, where the exploitation and unpaid work of low-graduate LAG members, researchers or graduates or doctoral students was unprecedented. I will not say about the coherent policy pursued by this government. I think others will talk. But I want to say that this bill opens up a new era of public university development. The public university and human resources, which exist, are the biggest advantage that the country has and at any cost, this advantage will be safeguarded and it must be preserved. So next September will open, in addition to the new academic year, and a new era for Greek Higher Education Institutions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u206	Thank you very much, Minister. Here, Mr Manda, you have the floor and we thank you very much for your patience, like the rest of the Members, but we will interfere with the process and the ministers that are already here to move on quickly. I would ask that we keep the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u207	Mr President, how many ministers are to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u208	It's Mr. Kontonis and Mr. Chakalotos from what I see here. For now, they're on the list. Here, Mr. Mada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u209	Ladies and gentlemen, we hear many things - regardless of the tone - which I believe are interesting. I would like to express a few thoughts, and also to my fellow Members and Members of Parliament, but also to the Greek people. I want to start from this: because I hear some krone in the Chamber on darkness, which this party brings back, I want to remind everyone and everyone that the left and progressive world, historically in this country, have deep races for the public free democratic university, for public free democratic education. And excellent forms such as the French, the Delmuzos, the Papanoutsos and many others in this very logic, in this current were moved. And I would like to point out that he has always been against deep darkness, nationalist forces of anachronism, which today, through the common place of neoliberalism and so-called modernisation, are trying to come back. I'm glad some things have been heard, which shows that there is some ground to find in the next year possible shocks. Because the debate on education does not end here. But, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that we all have to ask ourselves, and what is happening internationally. What is happening internationally in the field of higher education? Does the business university and its logic prevail, or have it started in a number of years, decades - after this trekker started - to question this logic in the major universities of the world? Yes or no? I've heard the subject of student loans. What exactly is going on with student loans in the large countries of the Anglo-Saxon arc, in America, in Great Britain, etc.Huh? A recent FED survey of 2017 showed that 1/3 of students receiving loans cannot pay them back. This is, for those who have a small experience in these areas, a very crucial problem of blocking, in the final analysis, a large part of the students, the people who want to have access to higher education, to study. And I want to say that there is a crucial question after all this debate. What will be the next day for higher education institutions and education in general? Because here was an attempt to develop the overall education project, the compulsory fourteen-year-old school, to solve the crucial issue of high school, unless we hide behind our finger. And that's where we need to put forward proposals, opinions, thoughts. What exactly is the next day? Let's have a look. The next day - I claim - will be one day, which will have established a postgraduate degree level in five-year-olds. Yes or no? Are you questioning that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u210	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u211	All right, let me hear your argument. I'm waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u212	You heard her in committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u213	No, wait a minute. Postgraduate degrees in five-year-olds will exist, yes or no? I think the bill is very clear in this. There will be two-year structures within the framework of EITs, which will provide professional certificates for European standards. And what is this, regression or progress, in a country where we are all converging that technical education as a whole has issues and needs to be upgraded? Thirdly, there will be a new procedure, transparency, flexibility in the functioning of the PPE, yes or no? I think there will be. I caught three of what seems minor, but it's very important. Will the single area of higher education and research be promoted? I think - and I cannot understand the alleged violation of the self-sufficiency of university institutions through this process - that establishing regional academic councils is a very crucial issue. Members from both the university and local communities, and people who hear this, say that it can also help in the sense of osmosis between the institutions, but also bring concrete and very tangible results. Finally, I will talk about two issues. An effort is being made to address the area of institutions as an area of lawlessness, crime and corruption. We've talked too much about it. I'll say a thought. What exactly do you want? What exactly are you asking for? Do you want to have conflicts within the institutions, between the police and those who, provocatively, sometimes and in various phases, may use this space, supposedly for their demands? Do you want to go into a logic where the institutions and central points of cities will become battlefields? Because there is rigour, there is law, there is tolerance, there is dialogue. And we, too, many of us, many of you, took the breath of democracy, freedom and justice at the public university and we are proud of this thing. We are not proud of pathogens, which, yes, exist and suggest the bill. Finally, in Austria, Denmark, Norway, Poland, Sweden, Finland, postgraduate is free of charge. Why so much battle on this matter? Why so much battle? In Germany EUR 250 is the maximum. You'll tell me, who are the wages? Good. We are the country we are at the moment, but we should all take this step together. It is a right step, a rational step, a fair step, is a measure that enables people who do not have it to enter postgraduate. Nor will it throw out the terrible and terrible people who live to get twice as much wages from these postgraduate. They get a lot more than other activities and we know that very well. They have other ways of talking and defending them fanatically. I think, however, that we are in a position to take this step and give this opportunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u214	Thank you very much, Mr. Mada. Mr. Contonis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u215	I take the floor, Mr President, because I would like to support two amendments which we have tabled. Firstly, I would like to inform the House that we have incorporated them into a bill from the Ministry of Justice, but because of the urgency we have brought them today as amendments. The bill they joined will be discussed in September. Secondly, because there was a report by a fellow Member of the Staff Regulations that I was not in the debate yesterday in plenary, I would like to say that I was in Kos for a very serious reason. Because of the earthquakes, the structures controlled by the Ministry of Justice have suffered some damage and we had to check on what happened in order to ensure that there is no problem in September in the operation of the courts and other stores, which we are supervising. The first amendment, Mr President, has 1177. It refers to the profession of notifier, and there is something similar here to the one contained in the Code of Lawyers. It is stated that notarial associations are and remain legal entities governed by public law, which operate as associations of a kind. It doesn't change anything. We just wanted there to be a match. We were also recommended by the independent authority. Although, in my opinion, it was unnecessary, we incorporated it in order to have a full correspondence with the lawyers, that is to say, both legal entities governed by civil law. The second article is the amendment of 98A and enables notarial associations, if they make contracts in favour of their members, these contracts to be governed by private law. You'll tell me that, too, that goes without saying. It goes without saying, because when scientific clubs - whether legal or not, they are conducting such contracts - as if the state were to carry out such contracts - these contracts are governed by private law. I also have a legal improvement. The process of electronic auctions is an opportunity for notaries, who belong to a notary club, which has not been made and has not been held by the integrated system - what we call the electronic gateway and platform - to enter the system of another notary club to participate in the auctions normally. [[At this point, Minister Stavros Kontonis presents for the Minutes the above-mentioned legislative improvement, which reads as follows:]] Changing p. [[Let the page in. 228]] Changing p.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u216	Here there were some fears that the place-by-place competence of each notary, determined on the basis of the seat's pacifist court, is removed. There's no way that there's any fear of that. The local competence remains as it is. It doesn't change anything either in the Code of Symbols or in the Code of Civil Procedure. The process will continue properly. We are simply allowing some notaries - if they wish - to make use of the electronic platform of another notary club. Finally, there is Amendment No 1187. An extension of the committee is given - it concerns both the Ministry of Finance and Mr Tsakalotos, it can be further clarified by the Minister - which was set up for tax controls. For its proper functioning, that is, we have received an extension from 1 October 2017. That is all, Mr President, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u217	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u218	Mr President, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u219	Thank you very much, Minister. Why are you asking for the floor, Mr. Javarra?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u220	I want a five-minute speech on the position of the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u221	I don't think that's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u222	I am a parliamentary representative, a deputy to the party president. I have the right to take the floor whenever I ask, unless you have made a new Rules of Procedure, which I am ignorant of. What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u223	Uh, no, we haven't. Do you wish to speak on the amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u224	In particular, on an amendment which comes at the very last moment into a procedure which is irrelevant to the studies at the highest level of lawyers or lawyers, but it also has to do with facts which substantially alter the nature of the legal and notarial function, you must give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u225	Would you like to speak about the amendment to the notaries?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u226	That's why the Minister spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u227	Let's hear him, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u228	Okay. Please, Mr Javarra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u229	Have you enforced a new regime in the House? Have you introduced a new statute in this House, on the basis of which we should ask the Minister, especially the Parliamentary Representatives?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u230	Why are you doing this, Mr. Javarra?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u231	How do you talk, Mr. Mada? And how do you refer to me, who, as a parliamentary representative, ask for the floor, tell me that I do not have the right?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u232	Did I tell you you don't have the right? On the contrary, I told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u233	On the contrary, he told you, Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u234	Leave it to me. I am in the brakes, in any case, healthy and I can understand what they say to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u235	Mr. Javarra, please, go ahead and make your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u236	This amendment, in a way which I believe is incompatible with either directity or with openness, or with publicity, but above all with the suffering of the parliamentary procedure which must be of an institutional nature, which alters the nature of procedures and institutions that have played a key role in the public sector, was absolutely necessary - and I say, Mr Minister, to you, who are also a lawyer - to have brought it into a bill. That's the first. Secondly, you are bringing it into line with an amendment, and there are many questions which I shall put straightforwardly to you. As you well know, both the lawyer and the notary are unpaid public officials, i.e. the provision of services that they offer is of a public nature. For this reason, legal associations and notarial associations are public legal entities. Public legal persons either add the ‘body form’ or not to public legal persons or are clubs. So since this action is insubstantial and wicked, I will tell you this: firstly, I want you to explain to me what alters the nature, function, importance and effectiveness of legal associations and notarial associations, the addition of the phrase 'body form'. And because what is directly apparent is that you place this expression in order to ease the next regulation, which you say that the contracts, which take over public legal entities in the notarial associations are governed by private law, I would like to have this principle of public procurement here, because I have information that the assistant to the chairman of this authority has expressed a different view and that is why it has been circumvented, if my point of view is correct. I want you to place yourself specifically on this issue. So here we cannot play with public institutions. Because if you left-wing people - as I have already heard Mr Manda - are being cut for the integrity of the public space and you are defending all forms of public service and public service, covered by the Constitution, you must at least withdraw this, the suspect - I am saying it is suspicious - provision or you must provide us with an explanation of what the term'solvency' means and what a systematic approach of public legal persons is a special feature, which gives or removes certain qualities, that is to say, that it is a body form. There are too many persons governed by public law who actually have an organization in proportion to the provisions of the association. This does not, however, give them any additional private privileges or attributes, so that you can come here by this provision and tell us about any contract that the public legal person takes on, and indeed on behalf of its members. What is this case where the notary association, which is the protagonist and depositary of all the professional traditions of the notaries, reaches the point of becoming a body of specific activity aimed at concluding and implementing contracts? What contract content? And in what form can a person who is a member of the club for the exercise of his professional activity accept from the body the collective, who is a public legal person, to cover him in contracts? These are issues which cannot be left unanswered and you need to explain them to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u237	Thank you very much, Mr Javarra. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u238	Please listen, because here you will understand what populism will mean. In 2013, the Code of Lawyers from the then majority is amended and refers to Article 1: "Legal Associations are legal entities of public law of a legal nature.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u239	That's what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u240	What are you talking about? But what do you say, Mr. Javarra? This is where you raised the subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u241	Obviously, you don't understand Greek because I connected it...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u242	It's obvious! So we're saying...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u243	So tell me, does he say there's a case for the lawyers to take over private contracts?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u244	I understand you, Mr. Javarra!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u245	Does he say anywhere that the lawyers are taking over private contracts, which are governed by private law? And you're not ashamed to address me this way?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u246	Now sit down and listen...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u247	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u248	Mr President, is this a situation?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u249	Mr. Javarra...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u250	So, tell me, does he say that public legal persons can conclude privately? That's what you tell me and let go of populism! The populism has been taken over by you as a contractor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u251	Enough! We laughed at those numbers, that's enough! We've laughed enough!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u252	You do not have the right to tell me from where you stand. You will listen to me and the "sufficient" you will not tell me. Find someone else to say that. Find no one else to say "let them" or "sit".
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u253	Mr. Javarra, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u254	We've laughed enough, Mr. Javarra. Now, just sit down and listen. Now you're gonna listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u255	"Sufficient" you say to me? Do you have the right, sir, to tell me how much I speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u256	Mr. Javarra, your intervention has been understood.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u257	Now you're gonna listen. Well, just sit down and listen. You've asked some questions, you'll hear them. Sit down. Have a seat, have a seat. That's enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u258	Minister, don't enter into dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u259	You asked the questions and you want answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u260	You call it "sufficient" to me?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u261	But it's not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u262	I'm saying "sufficient", because you're illegal. Right now you're in breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u263	You are paradoxical, exhorted and essentially involved in an authoritarian government scheme that violates the speech of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u264	What can I say?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u265	Mr. Javarra, please! It's understood. Minister, please, you too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u266	What can I say? Really, what can I say?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u267	Let's hear the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u268	You don't know that. This is where they play games.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u269	Mr. Mada, let's not have a dialogue now, let the Minister answer. And in respect of other colleagues who are waiting too long. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u270	So suspicious is this provision, which harmonises the provision, which applies to legal persons governed by public law, which are legal associations with notarial associations. So here there's no suspicion. What the House voted in ‘13 also applies to notaries from now. With 98A, we say that in one case, in which the provision expressly refers to, and is the one concerning the creation or acquisition of a licence, maintenance, technical operation, support for electronic software systems provided by the notary Association, for the benefit of its members, the contract is governed by private law.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u271	Tell us, explain. Tell us, what private projects are the lawyers taking on?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u272	Who?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u273	Excuse me, are the notaries a collector?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u274	Mr. Javarra, please, let the Minister answer. Let the Minister answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u275	He sees Mr. Javaras that everything he's said is falling apart and flying away all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u276	The answer must be general and neutral.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u277	So we tell him, that's the provision in this particular...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u278	Is this a collective? Is this a cooperative? Do they have a commercial property? What are you talking about? What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u279	All right, Minister, it's understandable. Let's go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u280	What do you understand, Mr President, that it is understandable? What do you know?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u281	He didn't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u282	Here we are taking great steps, even in legal matters, as is the state that is a legal person governed by public law, when it acts as a fiscus, is not governed by private law.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u283	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u284	Mr. Javarra, listen to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u285	But are these serious things you're saying? Are you confusing the State ex fiscus as a private economic operator with the state as an imperium?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u286	Read the layout. When the State becomes a private person, Mr. Javara, it is taken as a private person.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u287	What's this? What constructions are these? He'll hear us and no one who knows and laughs later, no more!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u288	Okay, what can I say?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u289	Mr President, is there a procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u290	Everyone's positions were recorded in the Minutes. Let's get this over with. Minister, let's close.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u291	These contracts are contracts at that level. And we're talking about this particular...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u292	The notaries want this?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u293	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u294	As? You're making a mistake!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u295	No, you're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u296	Mr. Javarra, there is no dialogue. Minister, don't answer him. Don't open a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u297	Mr President, I cannot. He's being irregular on a permanent basis, what am I supposed to do? I don't want it to look like I don't give answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u298	Your position has been recorded in the Minutes. The ministers are waiting, they're waiting for MPs. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. Javarra, Mr. Mada, ladies and gentlemen, please! Minister, are you done? Let's not have a dialogue now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u299	Mr President, I would like to say to Mr Javarra that there is no suspect in this provision. It is absolutely easy, and the plenary of the notary clubs, which have had a constant request, has had this regulation since the Minister, Mr Rupakiotis, of your own government. It is now being implemented and we take one case, in the case of 98 A, which we say is that these conventions are governed by Private Law, precisely to serve the clubs in this process, which is before us. There is absolutely nothing suspicious, and please, such conspiracy scenarios not to be projected with this intensity, especially when you get the corresponding answers. Please, too! Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u300	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Pappas has asked for the floor. Mr. Poppa, will you explain exactly what you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u301	I take the floor, as Mr Javarras took it, and I will continue with my speech. We saw him report...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u302	Mr. Poppa, what are you taking the floor right now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u303	As a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u304	In the morning, every five Members of Parliament were decided to speak with a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u305	How did you give Mr Javarra the floor as a parliamentary representative?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u306	Mr Pappa, the parliamentary representative is every five Members. No members of parliament have been intervened. It's Mrs. Anagnostopoulou's turn. I told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u307	Do you want to go up, Mrs. Anagnastopoulou, do you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u308	Yeah, it's her turn.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u309	Ma'am, you're up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u310	Mr. Poppa, let's not break the show. You are making it easier for the Bureau to do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u311	I'll get off. Yes, to God, what are these things?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u312	Make it easier for the Bureau. And Mr. Danellis is here four hours as long as I am. Mr. Danellis is waiting four hours before you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u313	So listen a minute, as you have given Mr Javarra the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u314	I'll give you two minutes, but only two. That's not right. It's been taken over by the Chair right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u315	Mr. Condonis denounces Mr. Javara as a populist. I will denounce you, not as a populist, but as a Parliamentary representative, who do not agree with the President of your parliamentary group. Is Mr. Mitsotakis aware that his parliamentary representative is bringing exactly the question that Mr. Horse of Golden Dawn asked last night from this Step to Mr. Kontonis?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u316	Mr. Georgios. You're making a mistake!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u317	I said it first!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u318	The populist Mr. Javarras...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u319	You're coming second!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u320	I said it first. Five minutes in my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u321	I'm not coming second at all. I'm coming first. Decide what you want, decide how right or left - the same thing is - you will get the houses of the Greeks. May I continue my speech, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u322	No, Mrs. Anagnostopoulou will go to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u323	Whenever you want, we're here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u324	Mrs. Anagnastopoulou, I apologise and thank you for your patience. Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u325	Mr President, an amendment, by mistake, was not tabled yesterday. I will not mention thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u326	Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, can we give the Minister a minute, if you're kind? Mr. Gabroglou, because I called her to Stepma already, to respect her, why is she waiting long?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u327	Will he explain to us the "blue-blue-blue"? Mr President, it must explain the misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u328	Please! You won't preside here. He will preside over the Bureau!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u329	I address the President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u330	Minister, please, let's move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u331	There is one issue with the conventions for the transfer of pupils. The transporters must be paid. Due to bureaucracy, there is a regulation by the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Education to facilitate the payment of transporters so that children can go to school.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u332	Thank you very much. Mrs Anagnostopoulou, you have the floor and I thank you very much for your patience.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u333	Thank you, too. We are talking, ladies and gentlemen, in plenary yesterday, about a bill which this government has been trying to do in education, as well as in health or work, etc., to re-establish or in some cases to set up, the fundamental axes of a real social state which has been exposed by the stirring of the crisis and neoliberalism in Greece - a neoliberalism, which has the general characteristics, which we are seeing everywhere, but also by the particulars that it has acquired in the Greek case, due to the sufferings of the Greek state, which you have built, namely the opposition. And I'm explaining, starting with the great postgraduate. The draft that you are proposing - we have heard it today and we have heard other times - and which was proposed in an emblematic way by Mrs Diamantopoulou's bill with Law 4009 is based on all the archaeologicalities of the Greek state, along with the perceptions of a bourgeois class, with no conscience, often of its role and a distorted way of reproducing in an environment of neoliberalism. Ladies and gentlemen, you are being cut off for justice decisions. There's been a lot of talk lately. There is the decision of the Council of State, taken by a marginal majority, which expressly states that the tuition is levied exceptionally, and that is why the House is deciding on a proposal from the Minister of Education. What don't you understand from that? The Council of State states that it is the person who decides on the tuition fees who is accountable to the Greek people and who are not accountable to the Greek people. In other words, here in this House, these days, yesterday and today, we should discuss what the tuition threshold will be and tell the Minister how he should control the highest institutions and authorize him to do so, not leave the scene and shoot the minister, because he should not be strangled by the universities. The reason for the Council of State was that the fundamental constitutional principle of equal access to education should not be destroyed. If you do not read minority thinking, which was very strong, it says clearly that postgraduate should be free, because there are three single cycles in higher education: first cycle, undergraduate, second cycle, postgraduate, third cycle, doctorate. I'm not a prominent constitutionalist, Mr. Loverdos, but because I know that decisions are politically interpreted, everyone makes the interpretation they want. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] I will explain to you why I said that there are pathogens in what you say and archaeological and distorting reproduction of the bourgeoisie. You're cutting off today for university students. I am also a university student, and I have the honour of coming from a university and from a department, which has never imposed a tuition fees on postgraduate students - and in time of crisis - no teacher has ever been paid an additional fee because he was teaching postgraduate students. There can't be a broken circle in the university, where some get 100% as a tuition fee. There's a problem here. You're in favor of them. You are not cut off for the small people, for the many academics, but for some academics, who are few, whom the Minister will strangle, if it interferes. Self-employed in this context: How far and far is the self-employed matched with the autonomous? Where public money falls, there is accountability to the elected authorities, because they are in turn accountable to the Greek people. In Finland, which is also a neoliberal country otherwise with a neoliberal government, why does the Minister for Education decide each year on a ministerial decision on the level of tuition, which the last five - I think - have been left at around 1,900 euros? Why does Finland have no tuition fees? Why did France, Denmark - Mr Mandash say so before, so as not to repeat - have no tuition fees? And if there are registration fees, the Minister of Education determines them. The self-help doesn't mean it's uncontrollable. And there are the archaeologicalities of this state, which have been very costly to society. So what do we do? We leave a minimal amount of money! - a minority of teachers, who use the public good - the university - can, from there on, get rich. Mrs Kerameo read yesterday the announcement of a university from what they protest about postgraduate. I won't mention it here. His dean last year, when I told him "you can't keep tuitioning 8,000 euros, 10,000 euros in these times and get them as a 100% reward," he turned and said, "What do you mind if we put them in our pockets?" When I said that to a committee in Parliament, it was a mess last year. Yeah, we're very concerned about it, because it's a public good. "They'll close the graduates and leave the world" etc. We've heard all these threats since yesterday. The Brain Drain when did it start? When did it get culminated? When did a lot of people leave? Do you understand? He left the time when the tuition was completely uncontrolled. Then it was the big fleeing. I mention it so that we know what we're talking about. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need two minutes, Mr. President. In these times we are experiencing, in the difficult times of the crisis, I wanted to say one thing: we need unity of forces. Instead of the fragmentation and feud of a number of universities or parts which they consider to be better than the others within the institutions themselves - and in fact, in fact, the merits of a university from the price they receive - I would say, Minister, that the window you open with the single space will go further, when there is a strong stimulus between researchers and academics, as has been done in very important countries with very significant education. That is why we had to discuss today: how everyone sees the single area of education, research, such as France, Germany and so on. That's what we had to talk about. Not the kind we're stuck in. And I come to a final point, to which I wish to refer, and it is excellence. You keep talking about excellence. Personally, I'm a historian. I have colleagues who have been judged by the world's largest universities. And here come these excellent people in Greece and who are judged to be excellent or not? Some publishers you're smiling with. And what's the criterion? Of the ‘fat’ due to the evasion of these publishers' mouths, how patriots they are or are not. If we want real science, we'll know what we mean by excellence. And one final point: I spoke about asylum in the Committee on Morphic Affairs. I won't come back. But the insistence that universities are a man of infraction, crime and all that is intended somewhere. It's not innocent. Diversity within universities is indeed an acquisition of this society. I wonder how you do not understand this historical tradition of democratization and education, and you are now coming to identify yourself with those who want to abolish, without, of course, abolishing in this way. That's what we've been through. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u334	The Minister of Finance, Mr. Chakalotos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u335	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that many and many want to stay Europe, to be modernists, not to go back, to move forward. I only read the titles from six, seven articles written in the last six, seven years in two magazines - which happen to be a subscriber - the London Review of Books and the New York Review of Books. Starting in December 2011, Keith Thomas: "The universities in the target group." I continue with the 2012 Pol Simprite: "How to defend the universities." I continue with 2012 and with the magazine "New York Review of Books", "Athon Grafon: "The universities can be saved". Let's go to 2013 an article by Stefan Kollini from Cambridge: "Outfit". I continue, July 2015, again "New York Review of Books", "Mr. Delbanko: "Our universities: The outraged reality". Finally, in 2016, Rana Forouhar in the New York Review of Books: “How the funding of universities can lead to destruction.” Are we part of this conversation? When you say we go forward, modernise, are we part of this conversation? We know that there is a problem - I think Christos Mandas said so too - and that there are students who cannot afford the debt, the student loans in the United Kingdom? That there are FDI members who are increasingly employed in America, using the Wal-Mart model, as temporary workers? Do we know that there is a whole debate about a university, which is increasingly central and primary for administration? That there is a business model, which there is a huge administration, in which they have both the corresponding and, of course - competitive wages? That we have the growing commercialisation of higher education, the work? I'll go back to that. Do we know that company funding and the quality of this research are totally problematic at the best universities in the world? They are not university people who are purchased, but the one who pays slowly also affects the subject matter and methodology. Do we know that there is funding from companies that take over the secrecy and inaccessibility of results through contracts and confidentiality clauses? Therefore, knowledge is not known and open to all. Do we know that universities leave universities in England, why are they bored, instead of teaching, to write forms for evaluation and teaching? Do we know the tricks that every British and American department does in evaluation to get better and instead of targeting research, they buy teachers a month before the evaluation to get a higher score? Do we know that? Are we talking about it? When you say we go forward, like we know what the solution is, like we know there's Valhalla there, and all we have to do is copy, have you discussed it, have you thought about it? Are your counter-proposals addressing this issue? Let me tell you my experience from the negotiation. There is too much misfortune in the institutions to decentralise the state. To someone I agree with, because they're targeting the client system you've built, I disagree with someone. However, there are no institutions to tell us and allow us to do institutions that protect us from the private interest. I'm not talking about universities now. I'm talking about the FBI, about the new fund. We're trying to fight this. It's like there's no problem with private interests and how they affect and how they get greater power. It's like that you haven't thought about it. Isn't it a risk that the private interest he wants to enter the universities? With what accountability procedure will we protect that? I cannot believe that there are people here, and even university MPs, who consider this unacceptable interference of the state, if you want to teach a graduate who has a tuition fees, to teach a teacher who has no tuition. Is that how we invent the new university? We're going to discuss in these circumstances the world, where the university is in crisis, how do we invent the new public university? Is the Ministry of Education's bill giving all the answers? Oh, no. No one would claim to be able to give all solutions. Is there any arrangements under way, so that we can think about how we can protect the public university, which you have never kept in public and now say it's not good? Is it a great intervention not to have postgraduate degrees from a department teaching only one or two of this department and coming from another? Is that academic? Is that something you might support? Aren't they postgraduate ghosts, which there is a teacher who brings five, six, eight, ten of other universities and the department doesn't have any control, so he knows what's going on? Is it a cap against democracy that students will take part? Is it a cap on democracy that there will be no single ballot? So, that's your opinion of democracy? 'Winner Lakes it all', where do the Americans say? Whoever wins the election does what he wants, as is in local government, which we have to fix? Don't we have to find solutions? Don't university people have to discuss? You win the election and you're done? Doing what you want? Is that your view of democracy? I see a bill that starts this debate and the insinuation of the public university. I see there's a check on postgraduate programs. I see transparency in the PPE and not just transparency. Because the Minister for Education has asked me to discuss with the leaders, precisely so that there is flexibility, to find this new balance. Did we find her? I don't know. We'll see. We'll fix it if it's not the right balance. But that is what we are trying to do, to be able to make the programmes, to have funding, but to have a check. Can I say something about the asylum? Why are we hiding behind our finger and not saying what we all had to talk about? Is seizures illegal, or isn't it? Isn't that the basic thing on which we disagree and start and talk about drugs and others? That's it, isn't it? They don't want any people not to make occupations? Why don't we say it open? I've taken part in many occupations. Moreover, I consider that many occupations are wrong. But, in my idea of democracy, rights are not just for people who agree with me. In other words, if anyone makes an occupation, with which I do not agree, it does not mean that it is wrong, that I cannot discuss it, even if this occupation is wrong, both with the wrong objectives and with the wrong methods. But it's an occupation, for some reason. Some wanted to discuss and create an incident so that it could be discussed. Say that, though. Don't tell us now about drugs and violence and that. Say we don't want any occupations, it's undemocratic, that students should sit on their eggs and not be involved. Let me end with two values for university and other education, which I do not support. The President of the River said that we should have an assessment and the funding should be affected by it. The better you go, the more money you get.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u336	The investigation, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u337	Yeah, the investigation. I don't disagree. If I distorted it, that's what I meant. I'll tell you why this is wrong. And I will tell you, Mr Mavrotha, because I believe that competitiveness has nothing to do with university. I, when I was at ASAE, was in a successful department - I think - who had a very successful postgraduate and very successful research department. And they begged me from two provincial universities - not to say what it is - to go give them my lights - not my lights - to explain to them how we do, how we organize the investigation, how students work. Was I supposed to, or shouldn't I, in your opinion? I'm saying I should. But why would I strengthen a section - will my President tell me - who is now a competitor for research money? Why would I do that? Competition is not about education. If the University of Ioannina goes to finance better than me, I don't lose what I am at the University of Athens now, but I win. I have better students and better research. Why am I missing this? So, why would there be competition from a department? It's a public project, education! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] It's not about who's gonna get better. It's another thing every department wants to go better than last year's and another thing to want to go better than another department, because then the rating games and the game of being able to convince others that you're better than everyone else. And I would also like to talk about the value that I support, which I do not see support here, the value of self-worth. In one of the crusades, Eve Le Preton sees himself as he goes toward the Holy Land, a madman. We know she's crazy, because she has hair like the windows, which you'll see in the churches. Women must be modest, and they must have hair on them. When they have hair up, they're crazy, so we don't control them. This lady has a torch of fire in one hand and a bucket of water in the other hand. And Iv Le Preton asks her: "What are you doing, girl?" I guess he didn't exactly say it that way. And he says: "With fire I want to burn heaven and with water I want to erase the fire of hell, because I don't want anyone to love God either because he will go to heaven or because he wants to avoid hell. I want him to do it for the love of God himself." It's not just college preparation for the labour market, it's not only primary preparation for high school, it's not just high school preparation for high school, it's not just high school preparation for college. It's a few things that have selfishness. It's a few things that need to be done. And the "working" university, which makes money and only wants to help the economy, does not have an autism in the end, does not help the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u338	Mrs Katsavria - Siropoulou from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u339	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the most sensitive motto of social, political and cultural processes has always been the area of higher education. Historically, the tests in this area have taken a strong class character and, of course, no one can forget that these tests have been a precursor of political developments, generally developments in a progressive direction. What has been disturbed and permanently disturbed by certain aspects of the establishment is the democratic and collective functioning of universities and TEI. And it disturbs them, because this ensures monitoring and transparency in the way resources are distributed, the aptitude of academic function and the dismantling of the manipulation of the new generation. It is no coincidence, therefore, that at times the reforms, with the top of the Diamantopoulou Act, came to scan every time, and subject academic freedom to the laws of the market, as it is not accidental that they left all kinds of "logues", authorities, professors, under the pretext of excellence and association with production. The interventions undertaken in higher education by this draft law are mature and necessary. They are mature, because they come as a crown of open and sincere dialogue with the academic community for two and a half years and after the huge failure of Law 4009. They are, however, necessary, because it is time for the academic world, the members of the board, the students and the administrative staff, who have kept the HEIs and the TEIs standing in the years of the crisis. It is time to restore the democratic legitimacy and effective functioning of the institutions and, of course, to link higher education to the country's new path. The establishment of the Regional Academic Councils of Higher Education and Research, the reconstruction of the Rector Council and the one-stage in the way the Vice-Presidents are elected, the restoration of the department as a basic academic unit, the redefining of the framework for postgraduate studies, as regards the financing and the tuition fees paid by students, depending on their economic activity, the recognition of the fifth year of study as a postgraduate equivalent, the rationalisation and codification of provisions governing the operation of the specific research funds, the establishment of a training and lifelong learning centre, while at the same time abolishing the existing vocational training centres of the institutions, the promotion of the single higher education and research area, the recognition and definition of academic asylum, which condensates strugglesing for education and democracy, all these are fundamental arrangements aimed at a democratic reform structure, which solves chronic problems of higher education and free access to all citizens, as well as a modern public education and free framework. Furthermore, the basis for addressing the geographical isolation of academic and technological institutions, to avoid fragmentation and duplication of academic and research activities, to increase the use of research results, to fill gaps in staff and research centres. Finally, the preconditions for ending the expatriation of our new generation, our new scientists, are also in place. We know the rabies insistence of neoliberal Opposition on an authoritarian and anti-liberal educational system. They recognize that their true opponent is carried in the cells of real knowledge and research. That is why they cry out and resist any intervention that restores democracy and the freedom of the academic community. However, depositaries of academic authorities and values are themselves their own bodies, members of the community, namely those who have reclaimed and claim to vote in favour of this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u340	Thank you, Mrs Katsavria - Siropoulou and for saving time. Mrs Christophilopoulou has the floor from the Democratic Independence.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u341	Mr President, it is my turn, I am a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u342	You're right, Mr. Dannelly. I didn't forget you. You're just after Mrs. Christophilopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u343	I've been informed since 10:30.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u344	Other what's happened since 10:30. Did you know that you would speak before Mrs. Christophilopoulou?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u345	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u346	What can I tell you? I'm the one planning that I found. That's who we're going with. But you're right after that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u347	Okay, since he's up on the Step right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u348	Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u349	Thank you, Mr President, and you and Mr Dannelly, if that were the case. So we are talking today about education and education, which determine the conservative or progressive direction of each government. It's not a random piece of legislation today, and I'm afraid to say that today is a black day for our education and educational system. And it is a black day, because a hundred and fifty three Members will raise their hand and say 'yes' to something that two hundred and fifty five of their colleagues had voted against and today they are voting against, they are devouring it, and in this Parliament they are installing a more old and regressive legislation, which brings back the most difficult, the most doomed practices of post-multi-population. And I explain: it is a law which opposes and abolishes the extroversion of the Greek universities. It opposes their international character, their ability to be innovation, research and promotion centres. It is a legislation which, instead of strengthening the self-sufficiency of the HEIs, as Mr.4009/2011 did - a law of PASOK, which the other parties and the military opposition then came and voted against - effectively opposes self-interest and restricts it. It's a law that, instead of pressing red tape, makes it easier. It is a law which, once voted, will enable us to bloom the timeless system of clientism, factorism, a paradoxical logic within the universities that have given birth to injustices, distortions, customer relations. Law 1268/1982 for his time was pioneering and brought democratization to education, because that was the case at the time. However, there have been malfunctions, particularly from the student's administration system in matters which do not concern them, which are the administration of universities, because students must have an opinion on all the issues that concern their student life and can - and they must - assess the teachers, but that does not mean that students will become co-decisions, so interchangers, with dean authorities and, indeed, with such votes as I do not have, because we do not have, ladies and gentlemen, a single student list or at least the opportunity to vote electronically. Really, why do you want electronic systems for auctions, but you don't want them for higher education? The fact, Minister - where is it, really, Mr Gavroglou? - that in electronic voting, 90% of the members of teaching and research staff participated, and that bothered you? Has it bothered you, because you are a resentful minority within universities, a minority of lawlessness and the client-to-democratic conciliation between republican authorities and student resignations? That's what you're going to do. That's where you get us back. So we have a law that reverses excellence, innovation and ultimately the selfishness of the HEIs. Mr. Gavroglou, where are you absent, if Mr. Baltas has really been marked by "The excellence is retaliatory" - and the SYRIZA Government demonstrates it, anyway, every day - what is retaliatory about you? The selflessness of the HEIs, the extroversion of the HEIs, the capacity, the international character of the HEIs is the retina for Mr. Gavroglou. That's why this bill brings us. What are you doing with the asylum? Asylum should be a sanctuary of ideas, asylum, research, thought and dialogue within the EITs. It is now an asylum for minorities and illegality. We must threaten life or have a felony. But having occupancy, theft, the damage of foreign property, the damage of public property does not bother us at all! We must first find the Republican Council and meet the Republican Council, if, when and when! This article, which restores - in the way it regains - asylum, should be voted against by everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, I have here a small parentheses because, as has been said before, there are Members here in these seats who had voted and defended Mr 4009/2011! Whose self-determination, really! I remember the famous Mr. Bollaris, a colleague, who, in fact, followed the vote of Mr. 4009 was bailing in 2012 in favour of his not being abolished, in favour of his not being altered. And today, he will come submissive, "damaging stateman", according to Savvopoulos, to vote for the abolition, the demolition of what he strongly supported. And it's not just Mr. Bolaris. It is also Mrs Jackson and I have too many late applauses of SYRIZA - ANEL, for example, for a parliamentary seat and a power. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot go this way. Two more comments I'll do in my time. First comment. Mr. Gabroglou, except he's counter-facting what I said before, he's having a dialogue to do with him. Of course, this is a government maniac. He announced the dialogue on education. We shared, because we have culture, you know. The coalition never entered into any dialogue. We would like to tell you that we also participated in the dialogue on New Democracy - and we were a Dedicated Opposition at the time - on education before 2009. Never the coalition, never SYRIZA. Today, then, it has a dialogue. And while dialogue is taking place, there are massive balms, amendments, legislation on primary, secondary, higher education. And we also have a Minister who announces the abolition of pan-Hellenics, takes it back and says 'no, it will not happen', and it is constantly repetitive. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I want your tolerance for one, two minutes, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will close with the perspective of universities on economic grounds and their importance for the development of the country, no matter how much Mr Gavroglou does not like, who will paint his name black in the Ministry of Education's restaurants. I'll close with a reference to what, though, comes from far behind. It has been coming since 1929, ladies and gentlemen. Georgios Papandreou in 1929, on June 24th, the majority's general rapporteur talks about the educational system and says: "Critical flaw in the educational system is the one-sided one. We have an educational system that ignores the fundamental economic nature of life and does not receive any care to prepare for economic life, a system that ultimately ignores the rights of life and the needs of modern reality." Unfortunately, ninety years later, it turns out to be true. Sadly, it is time for those who really want to support the prospect that free, public, practically, innovative, research and teaching institutions which are our universities can give us to join in a new, insurmountable fight for education.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u350	The Parliamentary Representative from Potami, Mr Dannelis, now has the floor. Until Mr Dannellis goes to Stepma, I would like to inform the House that the New Democracy Parliamentary Group has tabled a request for a roll-call vote on this bill that we are discussing. The request relates to the bill in principle, but also to specific articles. In particular Article 3, Article 15, Article 32, Article 34 and Article 36.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u351	And the amendment, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u352	I'm sorry, you're right, Mrs. Kerameau. The request also concerns Amendment No 1177. The vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m., so that the House can know. Mr. Dannelis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u353	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start with a brief comment on the amendment tabled by the Minister for Justice, for notarial societies, in the name of the speed of the awarding of the platform contract for electronic auctions, so that it operates in the autumn, as is required by the third assessment. We do not hesitate to change the legal status of associations as legal entities governed by public law, which is. However, the delay in the execution of the tender could have been avoided by January 2017, as well as the dubious legality of the project directly and, in fact, by a scandalous fragmentation. So you try to transfer responsibility, no matter what the adventures, to which you drop the notary clubs. Let's go to our bill now. Minister, I read your bill with the best of intent. I am referring to you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u354	I'm listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u355	I read the bill, with the best of intentions, seeking your mark, known to us from your old writings. But I found the university of other times. The bill has a fragrance of Law 1268 of 1982, but that framework law changed things. It abolished the seat, which was a very big change. Yours has at its core the materials of the 1982 reality, such as the superpowers of the Minister, the limitation of the automobile. You bring from the window the old assistants, who were abolished by abolishing their seat as second-speed teachers, and I mean the EDPS and secondary teachers with a PhD. Crete is fading for its foundations and not only Crete. In their culture, there has never been the institution of the assistant. With mass upgrades of people, in the name of a lack of funds for an announcement of new positions, we are resurrecting the university of the past. At the same time, with one marriage and one baptism, you marry two TEIs and you baptize them at a university. Is this the answer to the people of TEIs, who are struggling to upgrade technical education in Greece tomorrow and have a clear role, of course,? The Left, in its difficult times, had demands, demanded and struggled for an educational system of another quality and adequacy. Enlightened leaders, organic intellectuals, such as Dimitris Lignos, the memorable Gregory Pharakos, pushed the restless youth forward with the "first in the courses, first in the race". Understanding the demand for excellence in more and more is a matter of a deep classic nature, but in a reversed way than you see. Because you are constantly trying and insisting on squeezing down the average, but that is not how you are serving young people from the poorest, you condemn them to moderate. Changes in society and the economy go through education. The world has changed. Today we are all members of a global knowledge and information society. Legislation on higher education is considered to be directed to your party audience. If you believe you're short-sighted. The left world doesn't dream of this university. They prefer to hope for unexpected, as Edgar Moreen suggests in the global debate on key knowledge for future education. But you legislate for minority synagogues and confused students. I shall borrow the well-known phrase of Vitgenstein: 'My language limits are the limits of my world'. And I am going to dwell on Article 4, which relates to the mission of the IGCs. What are you doing here? You remove every phrase, word, reference to the professional field, as well as to the contribution to the European area of higher education and research, that is, the official European policy on higher education. You really don't think tertiary education is linked to production and society? The mass university, free access to knowledge, is another case. Because today's university if it becomes obligated to prepare students for tomorrow's, integration into society, the labour market, then it cannot do its job, it cannot do its present role, its current duty. Why do you withdraw Greek universities from the single European education area, where they belong, not only geographically, but also historically, politically and culturally? In fact, I am shocked by this and I would like an answer to what you mean by removing this reference. The removal of phrases reveals, as you can see, a world in which universities are self-regulatory knowledge areas, which have nothing to do with the labour market. But this world doesn't exist. The EPCs, the special accounts, were sacrificed by their entry into the public accounting system in order to take into account the surplus. With their unreasonable obligation to submit monthly reports of revenue and expenditure data, you are responsible for them. Last, much smaller lung range, a tool mainly for researchers, were university property exploitation and management companies. These reserves are minimal, they are funny. Now, however, these provisions no longer exist. If, Minister, these provisions were drafted by people who ignore the research, then you have to correct them now. Mr. Fotakis has a full understanding of what tools the PPE and the companies were. The EPPS have been created on the fundamental truth that research and teaching are not an official. The simulation of the university teacher and the researcher with the civil servant is disastrous. Where'd you find that for every move, we need a lead and who's the boss? You're destroying academic freedom like this. How can you oblige the academic to sign a responsible statement that he is not absent from the seat for more than sixty days a year? Knowledge is not produced with a 9.00-hour or 4.00-hour holiday in the 15th century, it has no working hours or days. It's important to complete the experiment, research. University teachers and researchers without international careers, mobility, recognition, academic reports what kind of knowledge can they be? Where do you lead all those who passionately serve their object? But you lead them to fleeing. Ladies and gentlemen, the crisis and the new global economic reality require us to change an example. This is a country's survival move. Investment in the knowledge economy is an imperative option for Greece. The draft legislation, however, is unfortunately in the opposite direction: Introvertalism, bureaucracy, suffocating centralism, tradition of lawlessness, conciliation. Instead of an integrated plan to convert education to a lever for the country to the post-crisis era, you use the University of Workshops as another arena of the great public army. But a bill offered only for consumption by the folklore and mystical party audience, which is part of your audience as a whole, is doomed to failure. Reality and international developments in the field of higher education have already overcome it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u356	Thank you to Mr Dannelly and to the economy of time. If you saw the timer, it was wrong by the Bureau. Because the President of the River Parliamentary Group spoke and had to be in the table...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u357	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u358	I'm sorry, she's not a peak for Mr. Dannelly. I explain to the House the mistake of the Bureau, so that it knows. I'm self-criticizing. For some people would see the twelve minutes that I gave him and possibly raise a question of how it is possible for the Bureau to deal with Mr Dannelly, for example, and give him 12 minutes while the next parliamentary representative to speak, the Bureau should put six minutes. I am explaining the mistake of the Bureau, which has put the twelve minutes in. Of course, we have given Mr Dannelly time, who had been patient since this morning demanding to intervene using the twelve minutes, which were not finally given to him, so he had to get into six minutes. Time was given, however, and he completed his speech. So there was no problem. I would point out - and I repeat - that the Bureau's mistake in knowing the House too and that it is not considered that we are giving more time to another person. I think you know that from the Rules of Procedure. We're continuing with Mr. Hussein Zabeck from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u359	Thank you very much. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after a long debate on education and after several important contributions to education, we are now coming to legislate on the abruptness of the national and social dialogue on education in relation to higher education. Education has often admitted that it is our vehicle to create a better world, provided that the education provided is governed by the principles of social equality, solidarity and democracy. This comes to act, and this draft law on the organisation and functioning of higher education, the regulations on research and other provisions, with the main aim of upgrading all levels of higher education study, free access to postgraduate programmes for those who are unable to respond and transparency in the management of funds. At the same time, it ensures the more democratic structure of the administration in the provision of professional certificates of European qualifications and, in particular, the involvement of HEIs in the development prospects of the regions through the Academic Councils of Higher Education and Research. The creation of the Regional Academic Councils of Higher Education and Research is intended to effectively link the regions and therefore local societies with the research project produced, with a view to transforming it into a development project. The establishment of these councils, which replace the boards of administration, we consider that it will really be able to connect the universities to the local society, which for Thrace is crucial, as the Democrat University of Thrace, our university, with rich and important research work, has not succeeded in achieving this connection. The concepts of university owners, scandals and consumption in micro-policy have detached the university as useful as it could be for local society. We therefore hope that the Academic Councils of Higher Education and Research will be a counterweight to this direction and that they will help to make the University of Leverage Development a lever in all regions. Even more important are the arrangements relating to postgraduate studies. At the current juncture where the crisis has hit a large part of the population, the opportunity for students to have free access to postgraduate studies on the basis of their economic situation is a great intersection for public and free education at all levels. This regulation is accompanied by the Government's interventions this year by the strengthening of the programme of undergraduate and doctoral studies. The EUR 202 million for the next four years is for over ten thousand undergraduate and seven and a half thousand doctors, to stop young scientists from leaving abroad, strengthen research and productive forces in the country. For the first time after so many years of crisis a government is concerned with strengthening students who are hard to get by, while all those who blame us for Brain Drain and who are excellence have not given a single euro for the best minds in the country. Moreover, with regard to the administration of universities, we all remember the reactions caused in 2011 by the famous Diamantopoulou Law, a law considered by our contributors to modernisation, but it was nothing more than the transformation of the free and public university into an undertaking that obeys loyally the rules of the free market and is governed by the managers. The valuation of Law 4009 has been made by the academic and student community and has failed miserably, which is why we are abolishing the boards of administration and protecting the self-employed of universities, restoring the Senate as representative as possible. We are reintroducing student representation to the administrative bodies. We are building up the dectatorial council and reintroducing the asylum to ensure democracy in the universities. This is a partial wording, so that everyone does not translate it as they wish. Much more I could say about the awarding of a single postgraduate degree to schools with a five-year curriculum or professional rights, but I would like to emphasise the government's contribution to education and my region. Let me remind you that the establishment of the Minority Education Sector at the Aristotle University was carried out at the same time as the abolition of the Teacher of Democritus. The Minority Education Sector was a chronic demand of minority for higher education and education for teachers. In addition, all interventions to improve minority education at the other levels, such as pre-school education, are heading towards upgrading the education provided. I welcome the Minister's initiative to legislate in order to justify the absence of minority students on the next day of the celebration instead of on the eve of the mobile holiday, since this serves the way our holidays are celebrated. In conclusion, I would like to say that there is certainly a lot to be done at all levels of education and minority education, such as the reform of the manuals of the Greek-language programme. I believe that the books of the Greek-language programme which have been being implemented for twenty years in primary education with the programme of education of Muslim children have closed down their cycle. Now is the right time for Greek-language schools also to teach the books of public schools, even piloting in some schools. The training of Turkish-language teachers would help to upgrade minority education so that our children, graduating from these schools, know both languages as well. In conclusion, I would like to point out that our biggest difference from our Vice-Presidents is that we are struggling for an open, democratic, quality university, equal opportunities for all, while you are viewing polytechnics as private capital companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u360	The Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Poppas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u361	A few hours ago we admired the theatrical - let me speak -, set up conflicts between the political leaders Tsipras and Mitsotakis, clashes which took place in the modern Parliament - Colosseus, with pseudo-monotics who only crashed for television screens. Those who vote together on measures and memoranda and set aside others were confused. Art and spectacle, then, old recipe! Only now in the Memorandum Greece of the Left and the Right offer you only performances. Greek people, bread is over! There's no bread anymore! Greek people, that's what happened and it's happening today. Only today? I read a quote from 1964: "Welfare Ministry of Welfare is currently published statistics suggesting that the deportees in Greece are around three million four hundred thousand". Fifty-three years after seeing the accomplishment of your captivity! Repeat the story. Four out of ten Greeks are below the poverty line and one out of two private sector workers receive a wage below EUR 800. This is the growth that the memos have brought back from 2010 onwards. This is the development that brought the Left Memorandum that you voted together two years ago SYRIZA and New Democracy. This is the result of your universal planning and measures that you take, which sometimes for purely voting reasons does not vote for the Civic Opposition, but assures lenders that when and if they become a government they will apply them. The lenders are crushing the Greek people and their employees, Tsipras and Mitsotakis, Tsipras and Kammenos - the language that is occult says - they say "yes" to their sinful authority. Mitsotakis will follow, they say. Today's bill is nothing different from all the scenes of the dissolution of the last two years of left-wing government with a far-right helmet, namely ANLL, having already shown this harsh and irreversible attitude, its anti-national policy in the field of education, previous bills, for example on the certificate of language learning or on the speeding up of parliamentary work on education. It now enters the exceptional importance of the future and the continuity of the place of higher education. You are carrying out the overall Marxism of education, not through the narrow and strict ideological frameworks of Marxism as a political area, but by its imposed version, that is, anti-national Marxism, as expressed in more than forty years of the Translocation in our country. He is the one who eats and reaps the traditional values of Greek society and national life. The biggest victim of your experiments is youth. You have raised the youth to a social experimental animal, which is forced to suffer all of your native, meslin and ethnic ideological structures, whether they have a left mark or have a liberal mark. In the context of and allegedly of the need for social change and reform - show that you are doing something, that is to say - hand over and hand over higher education to the appetites of the Minister of Education, who is also a university, in his presence and at the meetings of the Committee on Forestry and also with his speech and speech here in plenary yesterday has shown and proves to be the birth of post-political left guardianship of the HEIs. His mission is inconsistent with the oath he gave in order to respect the constitution and offer with all his forces to the good of the Greek people. Not at all. We distinguished a political leader of the self-functioning Higher Education Institutions, under the Constitution, to move the finger to the representatives of the Greek people on the basis of the power given to him by his ministerial authority and the lost majority of his resignation in the matter. A male start pointing. Nothing else I'll say about Mr. Gavroglou. That's enough. However, I should like to mention here, as far as the Minister is concerned, his attitude towards parliamentary control and parliamentary dialogue. I am presenting for the Minutes the reply of the Minister who has been in the Chamber for months every Monday, while he is refusing to answer a timely question that has been tabled for many months. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It's about the building of a sacred temple. This question is about the fulfillment of the "matrix of the nation", the Holy Temple of the Saviour Christ, in memory of the liberation struggle of 1821. For the Nation's grave, then, Mr. Gabroglou doesn't come to Parliament. And it doesn't even pay attention to my so-called months now. I'm answering the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u362	We answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u363	Did you answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u364	I've answered to you here. Don't you remember?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u365	Instead of a President-in-Office taking him out of ears and revoking him in the class defending at least the so-called discrimination of powers, which you are saying is based on your distorted parliamentary system of clandestineism, rather than saying to him: 'Who are you who refuses parliamentary control? Who are you to devaluate five hundred thousand Greeks as a red hustler and decide and say I don't answer?" that's not what I'm doing. I'm going over this disgraceful attitude of the Minister, and I'm on my way. But if we judge... laugh, huh?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u366	What am I supposed to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u367	If we consider how you deal with parliamentary control and how you dealt with the bodies and so-called dialogue you have held in the committees, which you did not do, we understand what is happening with this bill and how you intend to deal with university teachers and students who are not Marxists or Bolsheviks, as you yourself are. He laughs better who laughs last. From 4% you've found yourself a government. It is very - very easy - and it will be - to be back at 4%. Moko, then. At yesterday's meeting, a Member of another party said that this bill opens the door to the complete dismantling of education. A lot of courage has been demonstrated by this Member of Parliament - not yours - who said that the ferry to dismantle education is opening. Who? He who, as a student, had contributed to the dissolution of education as a member of a leading organization. The comparison, of course, and the designation was not wrong. The unacceptable image of universities is not currently a phenomenon. SYRIZA didn't bring that image. This picture I'm showing you is from a university in Uganda. Do you see her? I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above photograph, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And this picture is from a university in Athens. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above photograph, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The point is that the second photo of the University in Athens, there is no MEP in here or a Greek citizen who can identify it in time. Is it 2017? Is it 2007? Is it 1977? Because the dissolution of education began in 1974, when Kerenski of modern political life, Constantine Karamanlis delivered education to the left propaganda. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will also take part in my dentistry, Mr President. I won't make much use of time. With regard to education, ladies and gentlemen, the solution is unique and it is in what is called strict compliance with the Constitution. It is exactly what is described in the political planning of the People's Nationalist Movement Golden Dawn. We want a free national education, as laid down in Article 16 of the current Constitution, which states in paragraph 2: "Education is a basic task of the state and aims at the moral, professional and physical education of the Greeks, the development of national and religious consciousness and their modulation to free and responsible citizens". In paragraph 4 in the same article, it states: "All Greeks have the right to free education at all its levels in state education. The State shall support students who are distinguished, as well as those who need assistance or special protection, in accordance with their competences.’ That's exactly what Golden Dawn wants. We want national education and education completely contrary to the education made by the heirly political coalition SYRIZA - ANEL - what you say "first time left" - which attempts at all levels of education to degrade national consciousness. And by invoking the need for supposedly changes and reforms, it is making a radical change - a revision of the structures of Greek society. You are hurting, ladies and gentlemen of the Left, with a remarkable zeal for the national and social fabric, in order to turn Greece into a multicultural abomination. Fault the foundation stone, the determining factor that strengthens and maintains identity and consciousness, roots and memory. And this foundation stone, the factor, is nothing but education and education. Overall the actions of the current Minister and not only - because, ladies and gentlemen, do not forget the infamous book of Repusis released in Greek schools in the New Democracy, on the part of Ms Giannakou - these actions of the nationalists are part of a framework of complete degradation of the remaining national education and of the imposition of a hard training mechanism, which will be the dominant doctrine of education. I would like to end by stressing that national education is not a matter of figures and percentages. The Prime Minister said in his speech that his government since 2015 has provided education with 2.8% of GDP, from the 1.8% predicted by the departure - a memorandum and that - the Samara government. Prime Minister, whether 2.8% you have been offering or 1.8% of GDP, education has been suffering deeply for decades. And today's education, unfortunately, is this young people's education, which makes appalling citizens, citizens who have to do with an irreversible state that deforms the national soul and crushes its citizens economically and socially. Rags like the politicians of the Chiefs, Right and Left, those who are afraid to say "here", those who are afraid to say "no", which "no" only nationalists can estop. And what does it mean by sewing? "It is Rajah who is a slave to his fear. His ragnantness calls it the necessary numbness. You're after him and he's hiding, you're beating him, and he's still beating, you're killing him and he's silenced." I'm Dragum. That's exactly what you are. That is exactly what you are all, the hundred and fifty-three, who are ready to vote on anything to keep your parliamentary seat. I shall conclude, Mr President, with two points. Yesterday, the representatives of the Officerial Opposition as weeping Magdalenes, allegedly self-criticizing, said: "But we also made mistakes in education." Did you make mistakes or crimes? I filed two pictures. Can you tell me until tomorrow morning the second picture of the Greek university on what date is it? Because no one can determine which date it is. Second point: our competitor Ioannis Ragos, as a speaker, was yesterday placed in the bill and with a bold political reason denounced the government, the left - in and out of import - of an amendment which was not related to the Ministry of Education, which concerns electronic auctions. He also said about the Mouszala case that illegal immigrants will have a short card prepaid, will have their own home and all the good things and stressed at the end of the word that the SYRIZA Government covers this rhetoric, the anarchists of the Exarchates, who unfortunately also break down the university space. After Yannis Lagos, a Syrian MP went up to Step. It doesn't matter his name. But listen to what he said, Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I do not feel the need to defend any parliamentarians. He didn't feel the need. Mr SYRIZA, did you not feel the need to defend parliamentary democracy, parliamentaryism? Are they calling you a democratic arch for free? And he continued by saying, "I feel the need to say that in this country the biggest crimes and the most atrocities in it, at the moment, are committed by fascist criminal organisations." Not to say that he sees a lot of thriller. Not to mention the vacancy of his political speech. But let me mention that this was a teacher, a teacher of consciences and a teacher of our children. Well, we just don't want those teachers. "Get off sapiots and sapiorators, reporters, humiliate the tribe. Stop your old whining, saliva, bruises and grab the sword, as Pericles Giannopoulou commands us. This spiritual sword needs Greece, the sword of a national and social rebirth, a revolution in harmony with the unfulfilled desires of the revolution of 1821. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek people, as the late Christodoulos said, "we do not want our youths to be rich in minced meat in the hands of the order of the New Order and worldization." We want young Greeks, we want home free, we want a Greek teacher, with passion, to hand over the spoon to the new generation. We want prayer in schools, we want flags, we want faith, we want honor, we want our homeland back and we'll take it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u368	Mr President, may I have the floor on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u369	No, Mr. Dousina, you don't have the floor. The Golden Dawn Parliamentary Representative did not refer to anyone by name. Mr. Mitafidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u370	Are we not, Mr President, to laugh, when the representative of the Golden Dawn speaks to us in this way?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u371	Mr. Dousina, you're not going to take the floor. Please. And it's not a personal matter. There was a reference to what a Member of Parliament said yesterday during his speech in plenary yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u372	Mr Pappas said to me 'yoko'. Is this a decent parliamentary behavior?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u373	Has anyone referred to anyone personally?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u374	It's none of your business, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u375	It wasn't about you. It's over. You have the floor, Mr. Mitafidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u376	I mean, I sign with a hundred hands what SYRIZA MP said about the Gold Dawn Nazi gang. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not spend the very least of my time commenting on the hierarchies that conservative opposition continues to sing from this step, at all events, defending the foundation of neoliberal consensus, the well-known Diamantopoulou law, this abortion, which, as very cynically stated, "is designed to expose post-population". Look at something. We have made a mistake, I have mentioned it several times in this Chamber, that this derogatory, equitable criticism, arraigned, for post-civilisation, only serves one thing: it serves those who have just brought us into Parliament. Their Chief of State, of course, considers that he is in here - he has told us differently - as a well-known admirer, of course, the reformer of Europe, Hitler, as he writes in his texts. Migration is a contradiction and we must not give it away to those who have fought and fought to be the longest period of democratic rights, which, of course, are at full doubt today. And it is no coincidence that neoliberalism goes with neo-conservation. So, in the 50 years after the junta, we have also had conferences - please - in Panteion by the well-known'stars' of neoliberalism, who, not even much, told us that the junta was the hope of modernising the country and much more. But I don't want to stay there. Because in our debate the few changes that exist in the bill on primary and secondary education have been fatally overshadowed, I would like to say something, getting a stimulus from what Euclid Tsakalotus said earlier, that a great American teacher and philosopher, John Dewey, said something quite different from what we usually say. We say education, school, is preparing for life. He said it must be life itself. And here I would like to welcome the innovative efforts that have been launched in the 4th Grade of Argyroupoli and elsewhere - and have not been accidentally launched in our own days, since, with the changes we have brought to basic education, we have freed ourselves from useful time - for the so-called open school, so that the school can become a dynamic learning community. It is clear that the debate within the House has evolved into a real political battle. And let us just leave these generalities and emotive for education. We are talking here about educational policy which has social and class characteristics and has, in theory, been marked - if you like - by all the battles that have been fought, so that education can have a libertarian character. We are badly stigmatizing the opposite ideas as ideas, as if some mental illnesses were. We have a real battle of ideas within a world that is constantly changing and when school plays a key role in these changes, but it can't be the lever of overthrowing, as they thought - if you like - for education in the period of May of '68. We are constantly listening to the opposition relinquishing us that what we are introducing here is a regression in the 1980s. Of course, there are no representatives of PASOK here. It seems to me that even the President of PASOK, the heir of such a heavy name, did not bother to answer what is heard against coron, especially from New Democracy, that the period of educational change in the 1980s was a period of populism. I would remind you that these changes, despite the clientele they had, despite the photographic provisions, were an incision after the Rallie reform, which brought back the abolished by the junta reform that had begun in the years of Papanoutsos and which I am her child. I would like to submit to the Minutes a report on Sunday 'SGEI'. Read “SUMP” will learn a lot of things. It is not enough to read only the flagships of neoliberalism, the "First Lie" and "KATHMERINI". [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Mitafidis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Here you can see comparisons where we have tuition fees in Europe. In countries considered to have the highest quality education system, there are no tuition fees. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. And I should like to finish - and I should like to say this - by greeting colleagues and fellow teachers who have taken part in the process of selecting school directors in an opinion of the Conservatives of the Right, but unfortunately also of the Left. Greater than me, but also immediately after the Postpopulation, we fought to have a heretical administration in education, as is well founded in tertiary education. Unfortunately, the Council of State with its anti-democratic decision - which the judges do not apply to themselves, because they have elected heads of their judges - canceled this effort and reinstated the teachers' clubs in this adventure. And I want to close by reading, Mr President, three lyrics. It's Elliot's. I dedicate them to the "incidents" of education, to those under the most unfavourable conditions, mispaid and without any help, and make all these areas in which we need to build and develop them. He said, "In the sorrow of the vast modesty, which is drowning us from everywhere, I am comforted that some of the perverts are struggling to neutralize the damage." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u377	Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Pafilis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u378	Perhaps this verse should indeed be dedicated to the stubborn insistents to overthrow a barbaric system, what we are living today and which is not being humanized or made honest. It is dishonorable of its own nature, because it is based on the exploitation of human beings by humans. These are the real stubborn ones and you can be sure that in the course peoples will be found whole stubborn who will not submit and integrate, but will fight to overthrow capitalist barbarism. Because both the Secretary of our Party and our rapporteur Yiannis Delis and Manolis Synthrakis spoke in general about the bill and about the proposal of ours, I will stand on individual issues. First of all, I would like to make a comment on the procedure, because it is the President here. Mr President, this is something that is happening. Shall we get up and go? They talked two and a half hours. That's what it was, was it more? Anybody wants to say, responds, returns, what do they think they're winning? It's not right. Of course, tolerance will exist, no one says that de and well will speak twenty minutes or half an hour. But this thing every week is no longer going, because tolerance has limits and in the same work we cannot be viewed. We will be up and out of here, if this thing goes on, having two hours of this ping pong, which is well known, we have seen it for many years before in this Chamber. As far as the bill and the whole climate are concerned, there is an effort made by both the Government and the other opposition parties, but also by the press and the media, to show that here there is a great conflict and confrontation between two different policies in the field of higher education, as well as in the field of education as a whole. In fact, heavy expressions are used, which no one sometimes wonders, if they think seriously, and if they do not give in to this lust of the words used. For example, from the government's point of view:'social state', 'uninterpreted access to education for all Greeks'. Other: 'left perception conflicts with the right-wing concept'. The left concept is SYRIZA and the SYRIZA Government - ANEL and a right-wing concept is of the New Democracy and the rest. Thank God we didn't hear the word revolution in education. All this is heard in a life that the world lives for, which is completely different from what is said. What does New Democracy and others answer? Anachronisation, backwardness and the asylum flag. Incidentally, the Prime Minister defended the law Yannaku. If memory doesn't cheat on us - and it doesn't deceive us, it's verbal - when the law Giannaku had come, there were huge mobilizations from the student movement and the educational community at that time. Have you forgotten? Now, was the law of Yannaku good?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u379	For the asylum. For Article 16.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u380	You know, sometimes the latent language tells the truth. And for the asylum then the Coalition and us and so many others denounced this law.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u381	For Article 16.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u382	And the asylum had been denounced. Don't tell us. Do you want me to bring you the papers on what you were saying about asylum then? Regardless of this, he took Giannaku's law in general. So I say that, in order to balance the debate, we are going to ask the real questions that exist, to see where the big differences are, the strategic differences. What is the education of goods or social assets that must be publicly provided free of charge and of high quality, which also fits the scientific and technological developments that exist? This is where the parties are separated. Capitalism is a commodity. Is it or isn't it a merchandise? Selling and buying, yes or no? Today, with a SYRIZA - ANEL government, what is education and what changes in this direction? Does it make social good that offers public free education everywhere? Of course not. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Give me, Mr President, my term of dentistry, so as not to use what I denounced before, that we too need to have the same time, but that is not right in general. It says the government: to have all free access or to be equal. Okay, are you serious? The worker's child with the child of the industrialist, the shipowner, the mechanic, the rich man, anyway, have the same access to education? Are we in a class society or not? What free education can we talk about today and account for it in total, because it is not just universities. Let's see what a parent's paying today? He pays care? Does he pay for foreign languages or can he learn about it at school? He pays if he wants to know his kid. He pays for sport? Wherever he wants to take it. Are there any such infrastructure they offer? Are there any infrastructure for culture? Oh, no. Everything is on payment, plus the other problems that even exist in universities. So, is there a difference in your policy from the New Democracy policy? You say, of course, that we are trying to ease it. I'll comment on it later. But is there any difference in the fact that education is considered as a merchandise and is sold and purchased everywhere? So that I don't go any further for foreign institutions, for big universities, who's going, how they do and what they do. And if you want, do not compare with older times that needed mass scientists and the capitalist system itself had left some more looser things to produce scientists that had to serve capitalist production itself. So here the fight is about who best serves this system. Let's see, then, what this bill does, because things are heard about Diamantopoulou, which was indeed a monstrous law. We had denounced it, and said it was the start of the University SA - a public limited company - as in all, in schools and everywhere. The Giannakou law was preceded, and now in a smarter way it goes on in the same line. Why does it go on in the same line? Is there a sub-fund based on the needs of the economy? Huge. The Prime Minister told us he would give 65 million in two years. Can I tell you something? It's the middle of the net profits of large businesses, 65 million. I don't want to name it, because it's enough, and I mean it. Are these 65 million to deal with the problems in the field of education? Oh, no. So, what's coming for? Dependence on the survival and operation of HEIs and TEIs from the sale of programs with fees and fees, with new fields of action in lifelong learning, which lifelong learning is a strategic choice of capital and I will say why it is. Secondly, it has formally introduced tuition fees in the form of course fees in the postgraduate curriculum. And because it is denounced - and rightly denounced - the logic and the theory of a client and the one it offers, that's what it is? Isn't the student considered a client? Why would he have to pay for the postgraduate? It is not "University S.A." and this when it goes to find resources from elsewhere, to support and when it is linked to business and everything that is in practice, even with NATO itself, but here you say that NATO is a security factor. So what's the difference? You're saying 30% will be to those who can't. And it's determined by a wall. The Minister says 10,000, we don't agree, because if it's over 30%, what if it's gonna happen? You're gonna get the poorest. So the plaque will come down. Even with 11,000 years of income, do you really think that a folk family can support both the child and the postgraduate? Are those who have nine hundred a month rich and have to pay tuition fees? Thirdly, three cycles of study, multi-speed diplomas, lifelong learning training programmes. Who's gonna be in these programs? The bourgeois boys? No, they're going elsewhere. The middle-class kids, they don't exist, but let's call it that? No, for the kids of the people's families. Do New Democracy and PASOK disagree on these issues? Oh, no. They are pressing - especially the New Democracy, but also the others - for even more autonomy of universities, which means asking for even more money for the Greek people to pay. Academic Councils of Higher Education and Research at regional level. New institution. What's the argument? That he wants to coordinate educational institutions. Let's take it as a argument. Yeah, in a district. For what purpose are they established? Because the previous ones failed. To what did the previous ones fail and have to achieve this? To link society to the real needs and to the country's productive reconstruction. Here's the key. What are the needs of society, namely, which will be linked to higher institutions, universities and technology? Why isn't it specified? What are you hiding behind this? You hide, first and foremost, the real needs and designs of the chapter itself. And when we talk about productive reconstruction, we get to know each other. What production reconstruction are we talking about in the country? Who's gonna do the productive reconstruction? What is at stake is given to the business groups. Production model new. What's new? Ports, airports, OSE, what is publicly available is delivered to business groups and monopolies, to develop, supposedly, the country. So what will the Regional Councils do? These interests will serve: capitalist development. I'm sorry, but in some things we have to get to know. What are the capitalists calling for today? Cheap, flexible scientific labor force with aalum working relationships, all that exists in the capitalist market. That is exactly what this government is planning. Unless you tell us that you're planning a socialist economy and entering another base, but that's not what anyone will claim. So what do we say? It's the same strategy. Individual differences may exist. And there are differences, because the parties are not the same. But strategically all the changes that are taking place are not in a progressive, but in a conservative direction. That is why we call on the world, beyond all the general, to overthrow and what socialism can mean in the field of education, education and society, today to be a forefront of all those who do not agree to surrender what is in the gambling of this barbaric capitalist market, to fight for immediate demands. Here, what are the immediate demands? Coverage of public education shortages, permanent educational staff, logistics infrastructure, free provision of books and writings, feeding, accommodation for all. Here's how much the folk pays and how he lives. I'll say two - three more requests. Coverage of losses from the stock haircut. What about this? There's been a robbery overnight. Will they come back? Isn't there any money? There are billions of money, not all these profits have disappeared, all that business has today. Instead of taxing them above, from 29% you took it to 27%, write off debts, etc. To stop any possibility of business and the creation of companies of any type for universities themselves and for the members of PPCs. Do you agree? Bring it in. No one is linked to the infamous programs, no one is linked to business, nor to business, and much more to the university and to measures for students. I'll finish this. Guevara's daughter, Alexa, who is a doctor, had come and talked to a school in Halkidona, to the children. A total of education was the discussion. And what did he say? In capitalism each generation is sacrificed for the next generation. Does it or does it not? Let's see the free education. When a family, with this mess that exists, reaches a point that can only enjoy, starts and pays to study its children. That's free education. We say again that there can be no philosophical policy. Mr. Chakalotos said a lot. I had to have time to be able to answer him. Therefore, what is being done is to manage, regardless of the intentions of some, a barbaric system that has laws and goes in that direction. These apply to all capitalist countries.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u383	Mr Dimitrios Koukoutsis, an independent MEP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u384	Mr President, excuse me, may I ask something literally pragmatic?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u385	What do you want, Minister? I'm sorry, Mr. Koukoutsi, just a minute. What exactly do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u386	I'll tell you. Obviously, I understand Mr. Paphie's thinking. Mr. Paphie, postgraduate begins in September. It's starting a school year. What is the position of the JRC? That it is realistic, as it is now, to abolish the tuition fees of all postgraduate degrees? And secondly, you accept that 30%, which will not pay tuition fees, which are children who cannot afford it, is a negative measure. I say realistically about now, for tomorrow, not in the future for socialism.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u387	Do you know what our difference is? Beyond the rest? That's realistic. It's never realistic. Realistic is what society needs and what society can do. And this system you serve can't do that. He's doing it with barbarism. While people take the wealth they produce in their hands, if they design the economy, today the potential of science, technology, labour productivity are unbelievable. And Greece...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u388	I'm talking about September.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u389	Leave it now. What September? This is where many of the Septembers will pass you will ask the same question. We say, therefore, that our country's potential is enormous, unbelievable. It's one of the richest countries in the world for its size. Yet the people are condemned to poverty, misery and hunger. In the questions you asked, we say no one pays the postgraduate. Aren't you defending public free education? Put 5% tax - I say now - upload taxation to the big business, to make money if you want. Because this is a fake felony. Same as 30%. What can we tell you? Don't even put 30% on it? Is that a question? We're telling you everything. No one's paying for a postgraduate. And in the end, don't think that in the Greek universities there are the zaps inside. All right, there are some layers that still stand and have some economic prosperity, but for the children of the Greek family doesn't worry you that 11.5% leave high school - which is much more - and that fourteen thousand children left school last year? Aren't you worried about where the situation is going? Aren't you worried about what you say about West Attica, which the Prime Minister said we're going to build educational institutions? What do they want in West Attica? What will develop in West Attica? They want cheap flexible workers and scientists. That's what they're gonna do. What are they gonna do? What does capitalism want today? Isn't that what he's asking to develop? Don't you know that? Doesn't he want cheap labour force? Doesn't he want zero social benefits? That's what they want to offer to the universities too. This line is moving. And we don't say the slightest measure you get, no. Or everything or nothing. The 'Everything' must be demanded by the world, but do not put us in such dilemmas now. We're telling you not to pay the Master's. Why? Aren't you in favour of free schooling at universities? Apart from postgraduate studies, I guess? That's how it starts slowly. Then they'll go to undergraduate school, and then we'll get to primary school.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u390	Good. Mr. Koukoutsis, because he had asked for the floor, and Mr. Spirtzis, I already announced to you. Is there a problem? Do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u391	No problem, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u392	Do you want the floor, Mr. Spirtzi?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u393	For the amendment, Mr President? What about the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u394	Well, don't address me for the Rules of Procedure. There has been a bad start since the morning that various ministers have paralyzed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u395	What's that, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u396	Excuse me, too. I won't answer for the previous presidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u397	I didn't say about you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u398	They had to put it themselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u399	One is the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u400	Well, as far as the amendments were concerned, they had every right to intervene to support them. As far as their intervention for the bill is concerned, I am aware that they are signing the bill. I have previously refused Mr Spirtzi, because he is not even a signatory Minister. And they insist on government and others and, of course, on him. We have reached the point a moment ago - to talk about it all - to cool down with Mr Spirtzi. This is perhaps none of your business, but asking me to give him the floor, he said, 'I will address the next President', which will replace me, and I said, 'Behold Rhodes. Please very much after the 17:30 ́ that the next Vice-President will change me to ask for the same reason." That's what's going on. We all know it's against the Rules of Procedure. The previous President-in-Office here, too, shows tolerance because the ministers are calling for some intervention. In this respect, Mr Spirtzis, because there is from what I have understood in the bill an article that is also about engineers, he wants to make a position in that direction. That's all. Now don't open up a whole chat because and how. Please. We are wasting time there is a large number of speakers who will rightly be complaining about a possible cut in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u401	Mr President, just a moment, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u402	What do you want, Mr. Theocharopoulos?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u403	Mr President, a wrong situation has indeed been opened outside the Rules of Procedure, which is not your responsibility. Since this morning, two ministers have spoken out of the amendments. I would like to say to you this: the Rules of Procedure, as you well know, says that after each Minister, for example, parliamentary representatives may have the floor for two minutes. We see that there is a protest because there are procedures within the Rules of Procedure, such as the parliamentary representatives taking the floor after the ministers, and, on the contrary, there is a process which is tolerated and, at the same time, we do not know how many ministers will come. I mean, two other ministers could come after you and stop the flow. We must know which ministers from now on will speak, whether they are Mr Spirtz alone or others, and at the same time respect the Rules on the procedure of the parliamentary representatives of all the parties, because otherwise only the Government will have a view.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u404	Good, Mr. Theocharopoulos. Mr. Loverdos, will we now open a new course of discussion on this?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u405	Mr President, I asked for the floor on the Rules of Procedure with two signatures in my request.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u406	All right, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u407	Before you take over, Mr President, when Mr Tsakalots spoke for eight minutes, I went to the Bureau and said 'what?' I was told by the then President-in-Office that 'as signatory Minister'. When a multi-project is submitted, it is true that the undersigned ministers must take the floor. When government amendments are tabled, it is by definition necessary to take the floor to clarify this House. If there is one provision of their own, the Bureau may also take two minutes to explain it. But every signatory minister does not have his own responsibilities under the Rules of Procedure. So because we have arrived at 17:30 and the order is right when Parliamentary Representatives, or the Minister responsible, or the amendments that have been tabled, are speaking to all the members of the government and the non-attached, but not properly. I would ask you, Mr President, to do this: whoever is not signatory or any other Minister wants to speak without the previous ones, will speak at the end and will now follow the normal procedure. Otherwise, Mr President, we tell you that our parliamentary representative will be asking for the floor after every Minister and will have the floor for two minutes, whether or not he has something to offer this House or not. He's not here, Ministerial Council.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u408	Good, Mr. Loverdo. I would suggest, since it is the last week of meetings, after the holidays, using the President's presence, when we come back to the Conference of Presidents to put it seriously and to discuss this issue seriously, and how we will deal with it, because the Bureau has often been pushed down - and I am speaking about each of us who are presiding - give in good faith, if you wish to take a good look at the interventions of the ministers, who, too, may well wish to take part in any legislative procedure. Mr. Spirtzi, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u409	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have asked for the floor because I have the experience of the Chairman of the Technical Chamber in my life and now, through the Ministry of Infrastructure, I can draw to the reflection and discussion of the draft law on higher education.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u410	As a congressman, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u411	As a congressman.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u412	You should sit here and take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u413	I have been here since the morning, Mr Loverdos, and I have asked for the floor from morning to many Presidents. I'd be done. I understand why you don't want me to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u414	We want you to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u415	Thank you very much. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Well, in 1982 there was a draft law, which we studied at the time, in the 1980s, and I spent the '86s, provided for the discharge of the public university from the faculty and the participation in the administration of universities of all the members of the administrative boards that participated in the universities, ICP members, students and others. This university was targeted by all who had an economic interest in devaluing public education. And it's still targeted. It was targeted by those who see education as a commodity and scientists as a new export product. In the case of our own country, however, it is of good quality. Because I have heard a lot about this 'bad' university. I'll see you then, for the engineers and the others. Despite the attempt to devaluate public higher education and today, it would be good to see that the graduates of the Greek universities are asking them all. The German industry is asking them. The New Democracy should have known that. The German BSE came when it was government and the German OAED and asked for Greek scientists to participate in their programs and for an agreement to be made. He'd come to the Technical Chamber at the time. All hospitals in the world want Greek doctors. All technical companies and research institutions want the graduates of the 'bad' public higher education. How do these explain? Where is it that she is detested in our country as much as higher education is advertised? Could it be better? It could be. Are there pathogens? There are. Do they have to be sectionals? You have to. But that is more the neoliberal idea of colleges in the trio of Canigos. It's other things you're asking for. It is another trade in diplomas and hope for young people. The peculiar neoliberalism of our country, the blurredness between a system that has smacked between the Anglo-Saxon system and the European system to dismantle higher education and deceive it is your sport in recent years, a debate you have never had as a cause for purpose. If it bothers you - and obviously the participation of all parts of the university community - and any negative issues that have emerged over the years, gentlemen of the New Democracy, why didn't you advise your children, the NGO and your executives since the 1980s, the 1990s, the 2000s? Are you denounced the morbid phenomena that you guys reproduced in public universities? Is that us? Did you report any transaction? Why didn't you train your youth and your teachers? Who started sharing notes? What kind of party did he do this and throw a party? What about us? Our country was therefore attempted to become a washing machine by you for the professional rights of private colleges as a franchise for foreign universities, as if the foundations were a cafeteria and a cheese pie. You didn't bring the MIT here. You allowed it to run in the trillions in Caniggo, and then you are in a logic, two years in franchising in Caniggo, two years in the University Industry of England, one year in the master industry and then at the professional parity to make children political engineers. And when there's an earthquake, we're looking to figure out how homes fall. That's what you were trying to do. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] And because you're defending Diamantopoulou law, let's see who's got ideas. He had not been defended by a single dean or by a scientific body. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Madam President, I will try to finish as soon as possible if you can tolerate me. Truly, we ask you: What was the intersection in the law of Diamantopoulou? How was that intersection that you abolished the department and many of the scientists’ specialties? It wasn't an incision, it was a dissolution. And because you've been handling higher education as a ruse, you've been setting up sections without design to help your own people with no professional rights, no scientific documentation, no professional range. You have maintained a so-called counterfact between HEI and TEI to reproduce a device maintenance counter. I would like to state, as you refer to the Diamantopoulou Act, that you have not even dared to institutionalise the equivalence of five-year-old studies as a master, which covers the draft law, which is the request of diplomats and those who have studied five years or more and then you are talking about evaluation. It's a terrible thing to do. You also call it evaluation. It was a provision in the law of Diamantopoulou agreed and never filed. Not only that, but under pressure from the so-called old-fashioned defenders - one had come with the pajamas in the House at the time - the then Minister Mrs Diamantopoulou said that there was never such a thought agreed with the scientific bodies. It's a small sample of how you handled public higher education, how you founded departments, and you kept them with a LPD member, how you graduated for undergraduate object, how you made new sections without scientific and professional range, without professional rights, without anything. It is obvious that today the principle and foundations are in place to make a definitive solution to the old-party tactics of the previous governments in higher education. We work with the Minister of Education to find a definitive solution for HEIs and TEIs and for the professional rights of all specialists, diplomats and engineers. We started with the presidential decree of professional rights of all the specialists of the engineers and the recognition of the specialties that you had in the unclaimed, we continue today by resolving the issues of decades and we will continue the final solution and the real reforms you have put to the TEI graduates and you have never implemented. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, most of us Greek scientists studied in these universities, trained in them, learned and experienced in these universities that you condemned democratic processes and participation. That's why we understand why you don't want the public university. You want scientists straight. You don't want civilian scientists with social responsibility and conscience. It is also a shame in a country where the violation of asylum marked both our Greek people and our democracy to become defenders of its non-existence, much less when some of them took advantage of it in all possible ways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u416	Mr Dimitrios Koukoutsis, an Independent MEP, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u417	Madam President, may I have the floor for a moment?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u418	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u419	Madam President, I would like to put forward some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u420	Mr. Koukoutsi has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u421	Thank you, Madam President. The life of the average citizen and his everyday life go from evil to worse. So what is the point of the quarrels that we have seen today between the Prime Minister and Mr Mitsotakis? What do these meaningless arguments of fresh water offer? What's the point? View, but the question is: Where is the bread? On the other hand, arguments have been put forward from which some have a positive effect, some have a negative sign. But you should know something: the average Greek student in this country is not with a hood in Stournaris, but with a college graduate. Children of our people are of all classes and they have nothing to do with these logics we see here. Mr. Mitafidis, it's not a stigmatization, the word "ideolepsy," the characterization of ideolepsy. Because when you fight, you have the impression that you are fighting for something and you are against it, when you use ideologies, which actually do the opposite - and everyone understands what I mean, when you say that you are fighting the world's new order and at the same time you are talking about open borders, multiculturality and so on - you support this situation. In recent years we have really had a crisis in this country. Most of all, however, we are talking about the economic crisis and not about morality, which is the capital. It is logical, therefore, that it and the education sector have also been affected. And I am not, of course, talking about the cuts and other economic elements, which are at some point meaningless, but essentially. I am talking about this part of the moral nature of our education. Over the past few decades her hunting with every means of success - let us not hide it - turned our schools and universities into institutions that make machines essentially. Our system alone on the altar of profit made us lose our ideals by simply giving business supplies. Values for eternity, which were characterized as anachronistic, were left to wear down time and faded. Where's the style of education, however trivial it sounds today? The intrinsic weaknesses of the educational system and its chronic problems undermined any effort to change, because efforts were made. How is it possible to adapt our system to the requirements of our time, without logistical infrastructure, without training, without training, with a design that has always been short-term, without professional orientation, which is really lacking and is based on mechanical demolition of knowledge, completely neglecting critical capacity? Unfortunately, the system offers infinite languages, but, as someone has said, incomplete knowledge. In the vibrations of all these changes that have taken place our education has suffered so many reforms, which have ultimately become deregulational. By downgrading spirituality the participants listen to teachers who recite what the manuals contain and simply memorize them. In teaching there is no creative dialogue, and teachers have gone into staffing, which damages both teachers and teachers. No one has ever tried to explain to our children that they are demanding to be educated, but it is not possible to study everything. The student sees it as useless and thinks he loses his best years and his only pursuit is to get that damn paper to have a minimum of study. So this model can give direction? Can it inspire? Can young people understand that spiritual and moral values are above materialism? The standards - stereotypes actually create graduates who are often literally illiterate. Post-cultural in our universities, the party rule was created, cultivating a sterile conflict between students, while basically the opposite should be done, because this area of the university had to be left outside party controversy. Especially in recent years have the peculiarities of our people, our race's ideals. Our people have been watered - and you continue to water it above all, with the story of multiculturalism and multiculturalism. Unfortunately, the left state continues to constantly despair everything the national ones, everything that suggests national attitudes and, above all, to cut off young people from values of pre-eternal, eternal and true. A Utopianly thinking piece of youth, assisted by the parastate - of course! - it develops in a variety of ways and thinks that's how it hits the system. He doesn't know that makes it stronger, that it makes it more systemic. Educational reforms in recent years have indeed enabled teachers to know what to think, but not how they will think, as some learners say in this place. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, the pathogens of today's society are reflected in the dysfunction of education. We need to reform our educational policy. You are the one who rewards the communism in the field of education today. You reward eternal students with the protection of asylum and allegedly strengthen student participation in the administration of the HEIs. We all know what this is about. It is a participation which, as I said before, has always been under the cover of insurmountable partyism and the shameful student factions that have never offered anything essential, something positive, because it was, is, and will remain, subtle bodies with wooden language. Asylum continues to perpetuate the violations, violence, lawlessness, arbitraryness and so many others, which led education institutions in this country to oppose the rule of law. At the bottom of the line, what is the Proctor's board separating criminal offences against felonies or delinquents? The internationally anticipated model of linking education to the labour market is virtually nonexistent. Will the graduates of TEIs have the same professional rights as the graduates of TEIs? According to the Ministry of Education, it is attempting to institutionalise the reforms necessary to address the existing problems, in particular with a view to the democratic, effective and open management of the HEIs. It is a provision which is both incomprehensible and controversial, as we can understand the democratic, effective, but the way open to society for so many days of discussion has not been shown how you understand it. The Greek public universities, despite the mess of the last decades, fear the unknown, and that makes sense. Despite this mess, they have a lot of things to show. Above all, they must highlight their potential, which is - let us not hide - but adapt to the new one. The absorption of Greek scientists abroad demonstrates this. In conclusion, I would like to ask the Minister - he is not here - but also all of you if you consider the choice of teaching staff for HEIs and TEIs to be satisfactory. I think it is unfair, perhaps too much, to refer to a teacher establishment. I have the impression, however, that the way in which we choose leaves small corridors leading to nepotism, anxiety and degeneration. It is an issue that needs to be discussed in public at some time. It's a taboo. Here, then, is the field of glorious glory! Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u422	I will now give the floor to the Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, Mr Papachristopoulos, who is the last parliamentary representative. Everyone else has spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u423	Madam President, before you take over, a debate has taken place here. I am a tenth speaker on the list and I expect to speak at noon. He spoke with the Minister, Parliamentary Representatives. They must speak at least three Members and then a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u424	You're right after that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u425	Yeah, but since noon. Three Members and then the Parliamentary Representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u426	You're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u427	It is not possible for this thing to continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u428	I was told that a Parliamentary spokesman would take the floor - I had this order - and then we continue with the list of speakers. Now, Mr. Papachristopoulos has the floor. Then there's Mr. Kremastinos, Mr. Friend and Mr. Barriotas. The show's changed. Mr. Peter Constantine of SYRIZA is in the position of Mr. Friend, Mr. Iyhan Kara - Yousuf and Mr. Mavrotas are Mr. Gregorakos...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u429	No way!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u430	Apparently, you have another list.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u431	I read from the printed list, in any case, below that they were names. Mr. Gregorakos will grant Mr. Barriota...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u432	How are we going, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u433	You're next, number 47. You have a long time. Don't be in a hurry. Mr. Anastasiades is in number 45 of the catalogue series. I'm not saying numbers again. Whoever wants to come here. Mr. Papachristopoulos has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u434	Thank you, Madam President. I will make a comment, because I am one of those who have never abused my rights. However, many Members have all the trials that the Rules of Procedure are not respected. Some who are more dynamic precedes, some who violate the Rules of Procedure, some of you who are presided over are a little loose while you should not. I think that in the new parliamentary term this should be brought to an end. There are, indeed, very unjust Members. I will close the comment here and I believe in the next Conference of Presidents to see that as well. As far as today is concerned, I would like to recall a few facts. When there was the H1N1 epidemic, you'll see that it has something to do with - the whole world was upset, the whole planet. The governments were upset, they started buying vaccines, there was a mess. Because it happens to be in the area, I would like to remind you that a government, the Finnish Government, has not taken any vaccines. None! Although she had a recommendation from the World Health Organization, she ignored it. He trusted the state university of Helsinki, and he didn't take any vaccines. On the contrary, many other countries have taken. Some people took too much. It is indicative that this country trusted its university, which is a state university and was then vindicated. We learned after two to three months that a senior member of the World Health Organisation was simultaneously a shareholder in the vaccine-maker. But it took three or four months to find out. I would also like to remind you that, recently, the President of the United States - respectful, I do not comment on it - did not understand what many other Presidents have understood - who did not even want to understand it - that climate change is a fact. I say this because some have sacrificed lives, have fought to convince the white collars that something is happening on the planet. Unfortunately, many countries have not left them alone. However - and to bless our beards a little - at least the countries of the European Union, some with the force but certainly all of them, are at the forefront of the rules of climate change today. I say this because large American universities should have informed their President what is happening on the planet. Did they? Oh, no. I have great respect for private universities, like Harvard, like Berkeley, like Stanford. There is climate change and the President of the United States still does not understand it? Why is that? This is not the case in Europe. Another example, in my opinion, is that the great, the great economists of these universities are the ones who are later manipulating the companies as large. The economists come out of these universities, if you don't know it, and even they take them, they dive them. It's what some people dream in this room here. Where has the planet been driven from these options? I'm tired, but I'll say it again. There are eighty-eighty tycoons who have assets - the white collar that graduates from the good universities - the less than three and a half billion poorer on the planet. Is it an example that I should imitate or should something change? Three and a half billion poor have assets as much as an eighty tycoons, with white collars from crazy universities, the ones that are standard for too many structures. I would also like to remind you that in "ELETEROTYPIA" ten years ago, not now, he wrote an article by George Votsis, who, for those who don't know him, lives with his pension and lives badly. What did he say in this article? He said that George Soros, the man who kneeled Great Britain's economy on one night, wrote in the crisis of world capitalism that we have done too much, we saw the branch that keeps us. George Soros is the man who favours - understand - the stock exchanges, money markets, offshore, all that good. We're sawing the branch that keeps us. We have so much pressure on the world - what the 'OXPAND' said before - that we are now in danger of going to the east. The planet's on its way to self-destruct. And no economist said that, the big investor, George Soros. Why am I saying that? So, the brilliant minds of those studies, the costumes, the ties - I have nothing with the costumes or the ties, for God's sake - that glow, they do, they do, which all interpret in money, profit, offshore, economic tradition and say, lead with mathematical accuracy the planet to self-destruct. Does something have to change, I say? Do I have to? I say yes, I do. And here comes to my mind - I may be a little anachronistic - the French Enlightenment. Am I an ether? Am I a little romantic? Should we read Uggo's 'Sounds' again? Should we look again at the "Social Convention" of Rousseau or the "Aimio" of Rousseau? Do we need to remember a little what Emil Jola said in the Dreyfus case or what he said about 'Germinal' with miners? Should we be seeing these again? To see again that bright time when the word "democracy" was a beacon for all mankind. I think it's as timely as ever. I'm going to be a little pedestrian, but because I'm in the Committee of Inquiry on Health, I'm amazed at the cynical arguments of a Member and a former Minister - I don't like to say names, I don't want to make impressions - making this comparison in committee. He compared Marinopoulos and the government's intervention to save him - that Marinopoulos, you know, sells vegetables, fruits, meats - with the divestment of Henry Dunan. And he asked, "They are comparable sizes?" So the four hundred lives - why were thirty-eight beds closed in intensive care units, where a poor man could go under public-public conditions - are the same? I was surprised. Cynamic treatment. One saves lives and the other sells fruit and vegetables. There are two worlds that are conflicting here today, in this bill, a world that believes in society and another world - which I did not say have no mistakes or cannot be improved - that is a faithful market maker and their rules. So I'm saying the most famous university I know in person is Carolinska. Is it private? Oh, no. It's got a specialty, and if you want I can tell you details, but it's a university that really brings people out with education. Second university for those - and Eukleidis Tsakalots said so - and to a large extent covered me, but I am obliged to do so - it is a small town of about 30 kilometres from Amstan, called Leiden. What is this university, Laden? Incidentally, that's a state too. In the Netherlands, five - one is, one has privately, I did not say that it does not. But I inform you, it is an honor for every Dutch scientist to finish Laden. It's an honor for every Swedish citizen to finish the Carolinska. And it's a great honour for an Englishman to finish Cambridge. Why am I saying this? Because by accident they're state-owned. And because I have studied a little, I am saying straight away that I do not know if the Minister who is now missing stole a bit of the organograms of these universities. If he did, he did well, though. Some people are in a hurry. I will come to two specific points in this bill and I will not need any more time, Madam President. There's been a lot of hurricane noise. And there was a lot of noise about the violence of the Exarchates. I would like to remind the respected Chief of Officerial Representation that the current President of the Republic in the murder of Gregopoulou did not do what the thermo-heads who advised him were even suffocating him. Ask today, when this period has passed, who is justified, Paulopoulos or the thermo-heads? It did, because we'd have a lot of victims. What does the New Democracy want? Yes, Ruvikon came in and left - and I'm against it - it was good not to come in. Is that the point? Or in Exarcheia from morning to night? What does he want to read? Mahatma Gandhi said violence brought violence. You'll face the youth with a brain, not force. This simplified mentality does not suit people who want to rule the country. To read. In conclusion, I would like to remind you that the Assistant - who I cannot imagine is the Left - has said 'if you want to be, glory, death and money in society, you must overcome'. I don't want to say any more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u435	Come on, Mr. Kremastein, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u436	Madam President, regardless of what everyone thinks philosophically, the truth is one, that universities, whether they are state or private, need money. And to remind you that Lucian at the "Around the Dream" 2.5 thousand years ago he said that "the majority gave education and pain of much time and length of time to the young". Lucianus said it 2.5 thousand years ago. Whether they are state-owned or private, they need money. Universities and research without money does not exist. I must say, however, that after what was written in the newspapers and heard on radios, in the House on higher education, I would expect a technocratic Minister in his speech to substantiate every proposal, every proposal to change the law, with examples - standards from the major universities. He must say: 'This will be done, because it is implemented there successfully. The other will be done, because it is implemented there successfully." Then there wouldn't be that story we heard in the House. What story? In the morning, Prime Minister of Stepma spoke about reforming the system and the Chief of Police Response said that in a year, in two years, in three years, in any event, all of this will in any case be overthrown by other party leaders likewise. Who will pay the bride after all, let me have the expression? The students, the teachers, the university? Can there be no consensus in this House on such matters between the government - any government - and the opposition - of any opposition? Is it possible for students to live with anguish at that time, what will happen next? I fear that what it brings to Parliament today should have discussed and reached a consensus. If, however, he wanted to propose a substantial change that would relieve the HEIs of their misery, he would have to propose a single measure that would stop the transaction. What transaction, though? The transaction above with the lower ones. For example, the assistant professor or the deputy professor cannot choose by his vote his director, who will be the one to commission him a work and control him and propose him to evolve. How is it possible for the principal to appoint him and the chief to be responsible for his evolution? And how will dignity work with such a system? The same applies to the election of the President of the Chamber and the election of the President of the Chambers. So the smaller grades elect the dean. Now, as far as students who are making a long story and debate are concerned, let us do what is going on in the other universities. They will participate in the activities of the major universities. It is not possible for the student to give an opinion as to who will become an honest or honest teacher or anything. With what experience? The child comes from the province or from Athens or from his village or anywhere and does not know well - well what lessons will be taught. He doesn't know. He's coming to the Medical School, for example. Does he know what they'll teach him in the second, third, fourth year? How will he have an opinion about the lessons he doesn't know about the teacher? At least, the law should provide for a delegation of students who are experienced, that is to say, in recent years, having a university experience, having participated in some interuniversity exchanges. How is it possible for a student from high school, high school, to be responsible and to have an opinion about the university's administrations, who doesn't even know what they are many times? But I wonder, Minister, and it seems to me, that the beatings of the masters of the largest universities in the country, the Kapodistrian, Aristotle, the Polytechnic of Crete have not come to your attention? The Kapodistrian dean, after beating, was taken to the hospital and resigned and remained the university for a year without an elected dean. He was replaced by the Reverend. He didn't have a dean. All this stuff done automatically? So no one in the Chamber really thinks about what is going on in education? And the question that arises is this: it is likely that things will come better now, that the same things will not be repeated, etc. But the laws of physics and society say that if the experiment repeats it in the same way, you will always have the same result. That's what science says. It's only a matter of time before you see the result. And I'm not hiding to you that in my other capacity, medicine, he had come a dean of another university who had been abused and suffered atrial fibrillation - for doctors I say that. He was in a terrible state, ready to resign too, but he didn't give up after all. These are things we've lived through, they're not things that others told us. Therefore, Minister, who is not here, but I hope that the Deputy Minister, Mr Fotakis, will take them to you, if you consider all this and because it is impossible to withdraw the law - practically tomorrow I urge you to photograph any of the world's best universities and apply his administrative and academic system to the limits of your budgets following a dialogue with all the institutions, provided that any divergence from this framework will be fully justified. Besides, the law is mortal. The Opposition said so. And not just this: it will be voting tomorrow. Do you know why he puts a vote? To prove that the seven MPs who supported the previous law, who belonged to other parties and now belong to SYRIZA, will change their minds and vote for this law. You'll see that tomorrow morning. Question: Is this the seriousness of the political system? For the record, if the Minister wishes to link his name to a real reform, he will have to consider the '82-83 revolution that abolished the seat. This law provided for a purely university institution which was not made due to the conservative reactions of the university, EAEC, which would be responsible - and not the Ministry - for keeping the law from the university itself. It's not exactly the same. If it were the same, I would be happy to accept it. The other Minister, EAEC. Of course, he also suggested that the national academy of sciences and arts that was never made, where not five to ten people would be involved, but thousands of young people productive, who are abroad, foreign and Greek. That's what the place needs. That's reform. Reformation is not how the student will behave in asylum. I'd tell you the simplest solution, asylum of ideas the dean will appoint, the students will agree, and so on, so that anyone who is illegally bringing him to order. Is it possible to convene the Rector's board to see if any offender has committed a crime or a crime? These things can't be done. There was never been any convening of a Phetatan council because some caused trouble and made no decision on any matter. That's why the diversions took place in our universities in the past few years. These are, therefore, the reforms that the place needs and not the'rear' nor the 'rave-slide', which many of the education ministers in question have attempted for many years.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u437	Mr. Friends has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u438	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in his speech last year, the Prime Minister had used Hegel's phrase "in the dark, all cows look the same" to explain what the differences are when the dark is over and the sun's first rays come out. Here we are now. Since last year many dark and sunny days have passed. Throughout this period it has been shown that two philosophies and two political programmes have colluded in the field of education, that of the government pursuing profound democratic reforms aimed at guaranteeing the rights of many and dealing with the cultural asset as selfishness and the New Democracy programme serving the privileges of the few and degrading education to another commodity, namely a product subject to the principles of supply and demand. As Mr Mitsotakis had said at the conference in New Democracy, students should be treated as customers and, of course, if small students are treated once as customers, it makes sense for New Democracy that postgraduate students should be treated ten times as customers. The deepest conflict between these two concepts concerns democracy. This is why the New Democracy avoids talking about democratic education and resorts to the neology of 'free' education. Obviously free from the obligations of the Constitution and stripped of the rights of many. In order to obtain basic social acceptance of the New Democracy class plan for customer-consumer education, Skillful Opposition systematically resorts to a ruthless decay of public education. Last year, Mr. Mitsotakis launched the campaign to depreciate primary and secondary education. The exemplary start of the previous school year gave him an abrupt answer and he has not come back since. And how can it come back when the evidence and figures are vague? Twenty-five million school books since July last year and twelve thousand substitutes from the first days of September last year, compared to just a thousand four hundred thirty-one in 2013 and 2014. The difference was 712%. This difference also reflects the difference of our overall interest in education, seven to one. I am presenting for the Minutes of Parliament the figures of the seven to one. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Philis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In the same crisis of opposition mania is being served this year on universities. It presents them as a man of crime and corruption. Who is the benefit of this confiscation? Neither the problems, which of course exist, improve nor strengthen the position of the country and the universities worldwide. The Greek universities enjoy international appreciation thanks to the hard work of our students and the performance of our students. Their rivalry campaign has sprinkled motives. The New Democracy seeks to justify the establishment of private universities by following the doctrine that whatever public is problematic and corrupt and that privately competitive and excellent. It is so much the madness of Mr Mitsotakis against public education that arrived here last year, to suggest that private universities should be set up on the basis of a constitutional provision in 1864. He became that way older than the old one. This is a retro policy. All the arguments of old two-partyism focuses on supporting the infamous Diamantopoulou law on the argument that it was voted by two hundred fifty MPs. This law appears like the tablets of Moses. They hide, however, from the then government partners that the eruption of this law began only a year after its adoption in the government of Samaras, with the Minister of Education Mr Arvanitopoulos. Mr. Loverdos may remember that, because he did not vote for the fall with four other PASOK MPs. But all PASOK and the New Democracy ripped him off by the law of Mr. Arvanitopoulos. Apart from counter-reforming that was essentially attempting to transform universities into anonymous companies, the law of Ms Diamantopoulou was a dysfunctional law. After all, since the first day of his debate in the House, the law had been severely criticised by members of the conservative space, among them today's President of the Republic, Professor Prokopis Pavlopoulos. At this point I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the New Democracy today - I hope Mrs Kerameo will pass on my question - if she then voted for the Arvanitopoulos Act, which Mrs Diamantopoulou had denounced as a retreat to the colonies and violent minorities. I say in the Minutes of the House the angry statement by Mrs Diamantopoulou that instead of reforming the Samaras government, she is devouring her law. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Philis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Did Mr. Mitsotakis break Mrs Diamantopoulou's law then? And if you then voted, Mr. Mitsotakis, the culmination of Law 409/2011, how do you come today to suggest it to us as a model? At last what party have you built the New Democracy? Instead of bringing us here the laws of your own governments with which we disagreed, Mrs Giannakou and Mr Arvanitopoulos, are you defending the Diamantopoulou Act, which you have only raised a year after his vote? Evidently this move is not about education, but about other micro-participatory targets and - let me - ties. The claim that a law should never be amended is undemocratic. Look at each other, colleagues and colleagues. The eighty of the two hundred fifty Members of that vote today are not members of this Parliament. The eighty of the two hundred fifty five who passed the Diamantopoulou law! There was a people's mandate for a democratic overthrow. Dance it and compromise with the principles of democracy. Let the lionisms be abolished, too. That's the way democracy is. You will be allowed by the people, do you think? One of the main provisions of the bill is the establishment of two-year cycles at the TEI and the universities for PES graduates. This is yet another demonstration of the government interest in technical education following the reconstruction of the PESA last year, the reopening of many public IEKs and the successful introduction of post-training in enterprises. You see, it's you, gentlemen, of counter-population, which you generally and vaguely take into account for connecting education to the economy. But it is the government that is doing it, without subduing education to the market in even black forms of employment, but by guaranteeing the social rights of young people. A new type of technical education, in the context of a school of quality and equality, is a prerequisite for the country to come out of the crisis with productive reconstruction and development for the benefit of many. This is what society recognises in SYRIZA's years of governance by launching, in the measurements of public opinion, the first place of the institutions trusting citizens in education. 70% of citizens' confidence in education is now enough, compared with 50% in the time of your own governments. I'm filing the official data from MRB counting this June. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Philis, presents for the Minutes of the House the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Higher education is today faced with enormous challenges, which are largely dependent on digital culture. Distance education, undergraduate and postgraduate via electronic platforms needs adjustment. Scientific potential is constantly moving within the interdependent world of globalized knowledge. How ready are Greek universities to offer undergraduate and postgraduate programmes by strengthening their international prestige? These issues, and others, which are open to the single area of higher education and research, form a range of issues that require democratic regulation and must be taken consensually in the light of the public interest at all times. Ladies and gentlemen, I am closing the asylum issue. That's where he broke the sacred Graal - I mean the law of Diamantopoulou. The legislation we are voting on today does not reintroduce the 1982 law, which we must stress has been a great democratic incision, because, in other words, it has included the mature conquests of the university and student movement. It wasn't a gift. It was a conquest of this law. Falsely, then, the opposition claims, competing in war against the asylum, with the Golden Dawn, that we are reintroducing the 1982 law. We're not bringing him back. Good or bad, we can't bring him back. But we vote for the provisions of the Yannaku law. We are protecting university asylum from arbitrary invasion of the repressive mechanisms and also from violations resulting from internal and external criminal behaviour. We need rules that need to be agreed and to be operational - that is what the committee will do under Mr Paradoxopoulos, which Mr Gavrovlou has announced - and not to prevent the universities from being a campsite of MATs. We were told yesterday that cowards - so they said - did not abolish the asylum in many cases, as the Diamantopoulou Act provides. Another confession of authoritarianism: the deterioration of university principles, but also the blindness of the deadlocks of this notorious law. One is the truth: asylum has not been abolished because, despite the abuses that we have often experienced, it is a concept enshrined in the democratic conscience as a whole in society. He's in university DNA. That doesn't change. And the debate in the House today has shown that the Left is a force of democratic resistance to society and the universities. As a power of creation, a platform for the future of society, it calls for hegemony. And that seemed, I repeat, from today's debate in the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u439	Mr. Barriots has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u440	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good evening. We have a discussion about education with universities closed and universities and students on the beaches. It also has time to choose its semantic value, because the debate is specific. I heard the Prime Minister very carefully earlier, and I have to say that sometimes I really admire him. The Prime Minister has an excellent talent in compiling and narrating a fine account, which seems to have a beginning, middle and end. A narrative is, of course, "Muscules descent", a historical event. The account is also "Snow Snow with the seven dwarfs". A narrative is also the Fusion of the two who, in the mouth of some truly charismatic people, can create a new story, making logical leaps - possibly - and leaving gaps, but still sounds like a coherent story real. The Prime Minister has really huge talent in doing the last, in composing the pieces of a lot of puzzles in a new one that has holes, dark spots, but still seems to be shining and shining. So we have heard from the Prime Minister today not much or much that the SYRIZA Government has launched - if it has not done so already - a huge reform both in mid-school and in higher education, which solves a little, very much everything and creates a new environment. The truth is, of course, a little different. One begins to see her a little differently. SYRIZA didn't have a reform. He had three ministers so far and had three reforms. Of course, Mr Philis chose not to support his own today and to support that of Mr Gavroglou, but the truth is that we have seen three different proposals in less than two years for higher education with significant differences on the one hand and one common point: rabies, I would say, for the abolition of the previous reform, which is nr.4009/2011 and for the reintroduction to Status before that reform, at least, as regards the way in which universities are run and the restoration of fundamental quo in the balance of power and power within the university, because that was what it was that had to change. It started - and I remind you of why it has its value - by abolishing the electronic votes from this step by the Prime Minister. A man less than 45 years old has announced - and I think it is very important - from this moment on that the infamous servers cannot substitute the tax collector's committees, thereby abolishing the electronic votes, which, in the meantime, have brought about a revolution in the university's internal elections. So, today, this effort of SYRIZA is actually being completed with the final and complete abolition of the institutions' councils. It proved a little harder in the end, perhaps because they had some matching and supporters within the university community and society. We have the increase in state control practically and instead of greater autonomy in universities, as one would expect from progressive governance, which would strengthen the freedom of universities and their autonomy, we have the creation of control mechanisms at all levels. But what are the real problems today in higher education? Is it really freedom and democracy? The movement of ideas? Since the 1980s I have been a student, to date, I do not remember any major event, any attempt to exclude from the government or the authorities of the university from a different viewpoint, or any manifestation or expression of any idea within the university. On the other hand, I remember many cases where dynamic minorities within the university - both extremes, if we are to be honest - forced to exclude certain opinions from the university. I remember that the democratic processes in general, to be honest, the issue of democracy in university, governance, participation, the outcome of ideas, solved a very great conquest of the country, society and the student movement of the time, the law of 1268 in the 1980s: it democratised the universities, abolished the seat and introduced innovative things for the time. But if we want to be honest, we know - even young children know it - that even the biggest revolutions at some point become status, bureaucracy and start to cause problems. The great October Revolution took less than forty years to start getting bored, gaining statusal logic and problems in governance. Therefore, interventions are rather a positive step and rather necessary within the system. I see with great suspicion, in fact, all this tendency, the nostalgia expressed by many SYRIZA Members for the 1980s. I've heard them say that when you start reminiscing the past instead of planning the future, you're old. In politics when you start now or when you try to restore institutions that have been degenerated, aged and problematic, instead of designing new ones, you are obviously conservative. From this point of view, from the positions I hear from SYRIZA and this bill, but also to the Committee for the Ministry of Health's bill, where the major changes of PASOK in the 1980s are banned in totems, which are available over time and do not need any intervention, the only thing I can think about, is that there is a deep Conservation and, possibly, a discomfort with the needs of the times and the changes that have taken place, in the meantime, in society. Societies are evolving, needs are changing and, where appropriate, the political and ideological positions and solutions that everyone has to propose to the problems, as they are at the time. The resumption of an old age may be the recovery of our fertilisers, perhaps, but it is not a political attitude and it is not a progressive political attitude. So who are the universities? What were they and are the problems of the university? Is it the malfunctioning operating framework that used to exist? The law of Diamantopoulou did not create it. There were these problems in the operation of the university with the participation of students, with the new cartels that had already been created in the university for a long time, party, family, mechanisms that were reproduced within the university in various ways. These are old problems. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Madam President. The law of Diamantopoulou, Mr.4009/2011, was trying to change, move forward, create an open, extroverted university. This was the point of setting up the foundation councils with Greeks from abroad, but also foreign scientists, who would participate in councils. And that was an attempt that could perhaps not be completed, but certainly, Mr Mitafidis, it was not an abortion. It was a great effort to modernise the Greek university, to become more open, to be able to absorb funds, innovation and research in a better way. I think that in this context and on this line it should continue. I fully believe that the debate I have heard on postgraduate today is an incorrect debate. Overall demand and production, if you want, the creation of postgraduate and the social demand for postgraduate in Greece has a basic distortion. It does not come from the real needs of the academic community in specialized scientists, it does not come from the need to produce for specialized knowledge. It comes from a distorted procedure that sees paper instead of substantive qualifications. And I think the conversation should be much larger than if you need a tuition or if you have to have a tuition fee. Of course, a public university must have mechanisms to allow non-existent people to continue their studies in the biennial possibly on the basis of criteria of excellence. But the whole system has to be seen all over again. Generally speaking, the debate is unfortunately on the wrong basis, because the government is trying to recruit voters and layers on the basis of established distortive perceptions in Greek society. Commonly he closes the eye to parents who want easy and fast papers, to those who quickly and easily postgraduate, even to those who want to have easy progress within the university. But the need for education is not that. The need for substantial and real education is different. So tomorrow, when the law is passed, we have teachers, we have teachers in primary school who do not have mathematics as a prerequisite to go to university, we have doctors without physical and chemistry. We don't know what these children will do at the university without, of course, chemistry, but in any case that's another matter. And I will end with this master I have heard from Mr Spirtzi as a'very great reform', expressing a complaint and calling on Mr Gavroglou to correct a great injustice. I'm a six-year-old student. In the sense that is being introduced, I should also have received the PHD along with the degree, but unfortunately it took me four years to write it. The logic of awarding a undergraduate degree, which is, in fact, postgraduate, has no logic. With that logic, I should have two masters along with the degree in medicine or a PHD gift. Obviously, curriculum programmes are entitled to titles and give them weight and depth rather than titles. And obviously, the needs of the cognitive object determine the size of the studies and not the qualifications awarded.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u441	It's not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u442	It's completely incomprehensible. I really can't find the reason. I would like to hear you about why the medicine, which is a six-year-old student, is not an extra title, anyway. It's incomprehensible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u443	I would ask that we go back to keeping time, because some colleagues will not speak. Now Mr. Fotillas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u444	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the abolition of this bill will be a direct priority and a crucial matter for the next New Democracy government. It is not just that this bill, according to your dear practice, has whole pieces that have come again, without consultation, not even the fact that the General Accounting Office of the State for its minimal articles can make provision for expenditure. It is that, with this bill, we are turning back to the past of the party rule into our highest institutions by cutting them away from their contribution to the development of the country. I am, for example, choosing three of the many provisions that make the bill provocatively backwards and against the majority of the teachers of higher education and students. The first concerns the organization of postgraduate programmes. Teachers now have to teach free of charge in one programme, as a precondition for being compensated to the other. It's like pizzas, that's one thing. On three pizzas, the two gifts, on two pizzas or one gift. That would be the kind of postgraduate stuff, like pizzas, ladies and gentlemen. In addition, any compensation paid to teachers should not exceed 20% of all their regular earnings. It won't surprise me if they stop teaching a lot of teachers with this humiliating regime. And I certainly didn't expect anything better than the Minister, who inappropriately stated that the teachers should leave if they find themselves being paid better abroad. You didn't understand well, Minister. You guys need to go. And you and all the unexplained guys who are the government of SYRIZA - ANEL and not the teachers, who together with the students, are the future of this country. Because in the end those who will pay for your ideology and for the postgraduate, will be the students themselves, who will not have a sufficient number of graduates to attend. The second problematic provision relates to the management bodies of universities and higher education. It's not just that you've abolished institution councils. It is where you have brought the choice of dean and the dean to separate lists in order to manage their operation by every means. I would also like to mention a particular problem at Western Greece's TEIs. I was hoping the Minister could hear me, too, but he's not here. In particular, Minister, the provision of Article 84(13a) in the transitional provisions stipulates that ‘The term of office of officials at the time of the publication of this Law is to be completed in accordance with the provisions in force at the time of their election. The term of office of an alternate dean shall end at the same time as the term of office of the dean concerned. However, if, until the end of their term of office, the alternates carry out a representative debt, in accordance with what is laid down in this Law.’ At the TEI of Western Greece, Mr. Undersecretary, where a dean election was held on 4 December 2015, some and not elected alternates will have the power of elected retired retiremen for two and a half years and the dean will be the dean, with three - four of his own people. These are unacceptable situations. Elections must be held immediately at the Western Greek TEI for Refugees, as well as check whether there are other higher institutions facing a similar subject. I think that at least with a legislative improvement or an amendment you should anticipate. The third and last provision that gives rise to reasonable associations is the asylum provision. You close your eyes to lawlessness - as our rapporteur, Mrs Kerameos, has rightly analysed - by this provision. Because every time a professor’s office is built, they will pre-collect or throw paints on him, they will have to meet the Republican Council to analyse whether it is a flood or a beating or a felony. Ask me and I slipped, that is, Minister. What, of course, can you expect from a government that allows the creation of anarchists' JEPs and at the same time forbids the legal appearance of police officers? It's not the best thing the Minister said to calm us down. It is created - it says - a working group to study the issue of infringement in the highest institutions, led by the former Minister of Justice Mr. Paradulopoulos. Now we're quiet! On the other hand, Mr Tsipras had taken care to make sure that even the institution he was required to serve, the institution of the Prime Minister. Maybe - he says - I'm a liar, but at least I'm not a thief. And now we have to believe he's telling the truth, he's a liar, but he's not a thief. And the worst part is that he keeps the same cause: he's lying. He obviously doesn't know any other purpose. Development is coming, the memorials are over, investors are waiting in line! And the cherry on the cake is Yanis, who confesses they were planning together. Shame on you! Your disgrace, because in recent years thousands of citizens have been devastated as germans and traitors. Many suspects have been rampant and many people have felt dishonest by the current government that flagged vulgar populism and personal insults. And all this, at the same time that it is revealed who Mr. Shoeble's genuinely willing interlocutors and willing to destroy us, leading us to the drachma. It is the SYRIZA - ANEL Government which, without a sense of democratic conscience and an obligation, has attempted to destroy two hundred years of struggles in Europe. And they were negotiating with Mr Siomple an endless future of marginalization and misery, a future of Venezuela. I suggest you accept the committee of inquiry. Because I'm very afraid the next choice will be pre-inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u445	The State Secretary for Education, Mr Baxvanakis, has the floor. We'll start with five minutes and we'll see. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u446	Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the anguish of counter-population for the wind of democracy that we want to blow into education. What is it that bothers them? They are disturbed by the participation of students in the management bodies of higher education institutions. In other words, earlier, the Chief of Staff Response commemorated the young, including the young people of western Athens and the grim future that, in his view, our Government has reserved them. To them, then, the young people and young people of western Athens, the students from West Athens - who have a vote from 17 and can decide everything about the future of the country, but not about what the institutions they themselves study - Mr Mitsotakis questions the right to speak to the universities, to their institutions, to whom they study! What else bothers them? They're disturbed by the university asylum, because she says - our universities and the TEIs are a man of intrusion. This is the picture - I imagine - that we all have for our universities that he is a man of intrusion. So one would think that university asylum has prevented the forces of order and law from imposing order and law on universities in recent years. But come on, that for six years the protection of university asylum has been abolished. Since 2011 there has been no such protection. What, then, prevented the law and order from being imposed on universities? What has prevented is the democratic consciousness of the Greek people, which unfortunately for you, ladies and gentlemen, is still strong, it is what is called the hegemony of the left, the hegemony of democracy, which requires the protection of university asylum. And that's what's bothering you. It is much more complex than you are trying to present them. What else is bothering you? The separate election of the dean by the reflectors with separate ballots. Why? Because that, he says, will dominate the fragmentation. In other words, if a member of the university community wants to choose a dean from one voter and an anti-dean capable, but who is in another ballot, that's partitioning. And it's not partitioning to tell the university that you have to choose the whole package with a dean and an rival. What package, how did this come together? Whether as a party option, that is, the vote on this party, or in other ways that you are well aware of those who are academics. That's what's bothering you. What do colleagues stand for? They defend the right of a small portion of university teachers to earn a second salary, which is often not a second wage, but is also a third and a fourth, at the expense of young scientists who could and have an absolute need for these small salaries from the postgraduate programmes. What else do they defend? The right of minimum university teachers to determine the amount of tuition fees and the cost of postgraduate studies irrespective of the actual circumstances. And, finally, what else do they defend? The institution councils which, among other things, were responsible for them? To exclude certain candidate university students at their request from being candidates for proprietorships. These are so democratically defended by Vice-Presidents here, and they even call this 'new', while we, who are trying to defend democracy, are called backwards. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the gratitude of referring to some of the articles to which no emphasis has been given, but they are articles that do not refer to higher education and for which the rapporteurs of counter-population and Mrs Keramos said that it is one of those that is one of the disadvantages of the bill because she says they were not put into public consultation together with all the rest. That's true. We did not put them in public consultation, because they are articles - regulations that emerged in need of legislation throughout the academic or school year and in the Ministry of Education, we are making a serious effort not to table these as amendments to bills from other ministries, but to gather them and when there is a bill from our Ministry, to attach them to them. That's exactly what we're doing now. But do you know how hypocritical this supposed concern is? It is absolutely hypocritical because all these articles will be voted on because they are articles that solve issues and meet needs. I am referring specifically to some of them, because time...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u447	Has society been placed on them? Has the educational community been placed?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u448	It will appear in the vote, rapporteur, which of these articles you will vote against.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u449	You're not answering! I say society, not the MPs. There's a society that's watching us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u450	I am therefore saying some of these articles on the road. We remove the anachronistic measure of indicating the conduct of students in titles, dismissals or evidence. A measure that is only for school use not to accompany the young man at any age for an offense or a disciplinary misconduct that he committed at seventeen and that following him for his whole life. Another regulation: we are planning to extend the favourable provisions for the benefits of three-tiers, multi-tiers and the single child support allowance for children and for children in the post-training year to the apprenticeship class of the ESDP. As regards the irregular diplomas issued by several private TEIs, we predict that these are valid from the outset if the graduates do not come or come, but fail to examine, which our Government will finally carry out. I would remind you here that it has been Mrs Giannakou' s law for ten years to re-elect all these irregular titles, which either the New Democracy Government - which voted for the law - or the subsequent PASOK governments and their co-government, have never carried out these tests and have never carried out them. Our government with this draft law regulates all the details so that in the next few months this competition will take place. We regulate the issue of introducing into higher education for children from the islands of the Prefecture of Lesvos and Chios, which the recent earthquake has affected and a special import rate is required, which we are legislating with this law. Other layout. You remember, a few months ago, there was a whole fuss because the EPPC approved a private college programme which was a programme of study in the field of astrology. And he reasonably rose whole dust at that time and the Ministry's political leadership intervened to withdraw this licence. However, the EEAP was right because the EEAP is not required, under the current provisions, to check the content of the studies, only the building infrastructure for whether this training meets the requirements. In this provision, therefore, we say that the EEA will also monitor the content of private education. Finally, we are also protecting private teachers from the arbitrariness of some - fortunately not all - bad school heads, who do not comply with the provisions of the recent law on dismissal of private teachers. We therefore say that any dismissal has taken place in contravention of the provisions in force is completely invalid. Finally, let me support Amendment No 1181, which we tabled on Friday. It is perhaps the only one in the medium term. It refers to two issues. One is that we are reducing the number of publications necessary for graduates in the Esperians of Professional Lyons, who have the right to come to the certification examinations, to get level 5 of the European Qualifications Framework. It was 600 of these necessary wages. We think it's too much. We are reducing this number to half, at 300, given that the students of the metaly year have the same right to do so. They can have the same tests with 180 days of insurance. Finally, but not all of us, it is this: we are starting to implement a particularly serious programme of support for pupils in the ESDP. We call it 'New PSA Authority' and it has two main parameters. It has many aspects, many actions for which we have secured funding, but the basics are two. The first, which we are introducing in this amendment, is that we establish alternative aiding teaching for first-class children in the field of language and mathematics courses. That is why we will be recruiting substitute teachers for this parallel educational support. The second axis is the psychomotoring and emotional support of students. That is why we will hire psychologists and social workers, initially pilots, to a few schools in the next school year, and we aspire to extend this programme from next year to many hundreds of professional schools. We have proved in practice that we support vocational training in practice with the measures we have already implemented and with the post-training year in the apprenticeship class that is being implemented - and it has very encouraging results so far - but also with this new measure of support for vocational schools, which we have been implementing since September. We support vocational education, while others, when Minister of Administrative Reformation was Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, fired against thousands and made available to teachers of vocational education, while others talk about evaluations, talk about excellences and talk about the need for quality. We, the quality and support of vocational education, prove it in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u451	Madam President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u452	I too, Madam President, want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u453	Wait, Mr Javarra, why has Mr Gavroglou asked for the floor? Minister, will you announce the changes?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u454	Yeah. It's completely technical. As there were some typographic errors and a proposal that was not in parliamentary amendments, the Rules of Procedure say that we need to read the changes to the legislative amendments in detail. It is Amendment No 1198 and Amendment No 139 by Mr Doussina, which was accepted. In this amendment, the word ‘Title’ of Article 13(2) of the draft law shall be replaced by ‘Title’ after the words ‘Title’. The second and third subparagraphs of Article 13 of the draft law are deleted from the second and third subparagraphs of Article 83(1) of the draft law. I come to the amendment by Mr Saridis and Mr Megahystakas. At the end of this amendment, with a general number of 1201 and a special number 141, a subparagraph (d) of Article 83 of the draft law is added as follows: 'The Management Committee shall be constituted and operated legally even if the student representatives have not been elected'. In Amendment No 1182, paragraph 3 of Article 74 of the draft law is numbered as paragraph 3a, etc. In paragraph 3b, the first sentence shall be ‘positions of importers who have remained vacant during the trials 2016-2017 and 2017-2018 and until the adoption of the internal regulations are covered until exhaustion, etc.’.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u455	Minister, give it to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u456	I'm tabling them in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u457	Will there be further amendments, Madam President? Let's know.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u458	Mr. Javarra, would you like to speak as a parliamentary representative? Because there are too many speakers, has Mr Baxvanakis also spoken, let the list go ahead and give you the floor a little later?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u459	I asked the floor after the Minister, but all right, to talk later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u460	Mr Anastasiades, who was ready to speak and we stopped him, has the floor. Mr. Anastasiades, it's all right, you've heard a lot of interesting things. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u461	Thank you, Madam President. Undersecretary that you have just come down from the Step, because many of your colleagues, but you have also referred to the wind of democracy that is drowning in the universities, I would like to clarify the following: of course we have a different concept of democracy. You as a democracy perceive anarchy, lawlessness, tolerance to 'blacks', non-respect to the other. We as a democracy consider respect for the fellowman, respect for the other view, legitimacy and order. Of course, this bill is a feature of your perception. After a pragmatic dialogue between the Ministry of Education and the academic community, you bring the bill on the organization and functioning of higher education and research to a vote. The final result of the dialogue, Minister, and its outcome are frustrating for such an important issue, such as the highest education, the importance of which and its high political importance show the planned participation in the discussion of our President, Mr Mitsotakis, and his intervention, as well as the participation of the Prime Minister and all the Heads of State and many ministers from your Government. In the debate that was preceded, Minister, not only was there no agreement, but in fact you did not accept any of the proposals and positions of the academic community. In this attitude you are showing that you are questioning the organized expression of the academic community and of course stateing the policy you want to follow. It makes me a terrible impression, how do you think, Minister, that this law will work smoothly and effectively when it comes to those who are addressing it, those who are calling to apply it are all vertically opposite? How do you think this law will work without the consent of the academic community? How can you ignore the country's unanimous view that the proposed regulation on the promotion of anti-writing, with a separate election from that of the regulators, will not create huge problems in the day-to-day operation and efficiency of universities? Why are you ignoring the unanimous decision of the authors that no change in the status of asylum is required? These provisions, as well as the return of student participation to university institutions, serve your left-hand ideal and only your narrow party audience and impose party control on higher education institutions. Of course, the way you intervene in postgraduate studies puts the sustainability of these programmes at risk. You're trying to check everything out. You consider free knowledge and research, threat and danger. That is why education must remain under your suffocating control. It is clear, Minister, that we are divided by an unblemished gap of ideas, positions and principles.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u462	Fortunately!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u463	And since, based on the dialogue you have had with the academic community, you have shown that he was both pre-formative and euphemism, since you were unmoved in your ideological positions, it makes no sense for me to describe my disagreement and for other arrangements of the bill, which were done in detail and correctly, and our rapporteur, Mrs Keramos and the colleagues who have spoken in the debate, but above all the President of the Party who spoke before. You have not taken into account and you have not taken into account any of the proposals from all the regulators of all the universities in the country, including small and large, central and regional. Is it possible for all of them to have such wrong views that you will not accept anyone and only know the right thing? So you alone - the government majority - will vote for the bill as it stands, along with all the racist amendments that have come, irrelevant to your legislation, which you are accepting, which is a shame on the parliamentary procedure. I think they've arrived and exceeded the number thirty-five. And it is certain that the vote on this bill will lead to Greek higher education in regression, past, introvert and isolation. That's what you want and that's what you're doing. However, because today I have the opportunity, on the basis of Article 73, to refer to the issues of Greek-language education for Greek abroad, which I consider to be of paramount importance. The teaching of the Greek language in the children of Greek expatriates is a matter of priority and a problem of high priority for all Greeks abroad, and I think that should be dealt with by the Greek state as well. It is comforting that the Greek community continues to show strong interest in the Greek language, history, culture. The aim of teaching the Greek language in Greek from the Greek Democratic Republic must be to connect the Greeks with their roots, their homeland and the maintenance of national consciousness. It is the strongest link to Greece and every what Greek. The demands of our compatriots are racing, such as those of the Greek community of Munich, Bavaria, which also concern housing, a problem which has not yet been solved, Minister, but also their timely and adequate staffing by educational staff. I am afraid, Minister, that in the new school year we will have the same problems of delaying and incomplete staffing of foreign schools by secondment of teachers, since the process has not actually begun. Very recently, as far as I know, you have appointed the committee responsible. But here too, there is an attempt to control everything. Why, by way of derogation, will you be able to define the training factors? What does that do, apart from party control? Finally, I would like to appeal, Minister, to ensure that the new school year does not see the delays in the secondment and staffing of foreign schools observed last year. The bill you bring to the vote does not serve academic but little party purposes and it will surely lead to a regression of Greek tertiary education and research. Therefore, the upgrading of higher education and education in general will be our priority when you, SYRIZA and your illusions very soon, will be a sad memory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u464	Mrs Triantafyllou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u465	Thank you, Madam President. They often refer to parties and political forces in the legendary changes that bring to education, as though education is something that is created once or just the result of administrative changes and has nothing to do with elements that touch both the individual and the collectives of societies, smaller or larger. Education is not just its administrative shapes, it is its people and its directions. She's alive and I live reality. The general education function of free education includes both scientific and philosophical but also the professional dimension. Education is necessary, therefore useful in social life. However, each legislation, each design, is formulated and guided by social factors and political positions that create and serve targets. And research and scientific position, scientific knowledge does not exist, but coexist. And knowledge and research are sort of decided and channelled somewhere and serving something. Sometimes, unfortunately, they serve something and some. So, starting with that, I would say that the whole debate is taking place in a disorientated manner. This is because, apart from a few exceptions, the fact of sub-financing in education has been avoided. SYRIZA did not further reduce the funds, but increased to 2.8% of GDP. It is, however, historically low, although it has been smaller in the past. Something has been avoided, which, in my view, is very important. This is the limit of independence that we have and we have in designing our educational issues. A controversy would be justified if the bill was a ruptured one. But it's not. So why this controversy? I said the conversation involved disorientation. That is not all, however, because any controversy has a material basis. That's true here, of course. Modernization guilders were established and founded at the university after the 1990s. The concept of participation was best used. Essentially, it was humiliated and created regimes that proclaimed and took rectorial elections, groups that put a deep hand in European masters' programs, which sold hope to unemployed graduates, who gave them crumbs to do studies, which ensured cooperation with the private sector. The Law of Diamantopoulou merely orchestrated the effort. It relied on the existent administrative deadlock and the defection of the institutions, the corruption that had flooded even the most important institutions in our country, for example the Panteion University. Unfortunately, I still remember names of important academic teachers. Some fortunately had them for their teaching, but unfortunately I saw their name crawling into the mud. Some people died. In fact, I'd say they stumbled all their previous experience in this prick. Of course, the Law of Diamantopoulou was rampant in assessment and accountability. Actually, what happened? There was renewal of staff at the university and the university continued to be a man of factors, a stepping stone for political careers or speculation. Fortunately, there have been many exceptions. I'll stay in evaluation. There has been a great deal of talk about the other issues. It is a bad concept, however, that served the business university well. Even so, you accept the evaluation. Then why in the recent bill, in the "Athena" project, did you collapse and wipe out institutions that were very high in the evaluation, such as the Messology TEI? At that time, the concept of evaluation was taken into account by the hard behind-the-spot customer consultation of members of the region of then-government, in order to rescue parts of their regions. Why did you choose, for example, an evaluation with pre-selected failure rates? Evaluation, yes, it is necessary as a methodology for the diagnosis of problems, the basis for improvement and a tool of the quality of education, not as a full discipline of every voice that disagrees. If we go to this, with the draft law on higher education, the government is attempting to establish certain rules for the better functioning of academic institutions, while at the same time seeking to strengthen their public and democratic character. Some of the rules are important and move in the operational direction. The government's primary aim is to create a single area of higher education, in which universities, TEIs and research centres will be integrated, so that there will be a single academic direction and targeting. This will create the foundation of the Regional Academic Councils of Higher Education and Research, which will be a major policy instrument for regional education, with a view to linking the institutions with the locality and the prospects for development of the region. Of course, here again, I think of the degree of autonomy we have. In addition, the provisions of the bill attempt to reorder postgraduate courses and free of charge for students affected by the crisis and fulfil specific economic criteria. Other provisions of the law provide for the establishment of uniform and undivided postgraduate degrees, provided by the five-year curriculum and the creation of conditions for the regulation of professional rights of graduates from courses of technology of the TEI, so that a significant long-term problem can be resolved which has serious social and development implications. A number of changes are being attempted. I think everything has been heard about management boards and asylum and so on. Finally, I would like to point out two points. Despite the voices and the maliciousness of the Officerial Response, the Civic Response is voiceless, however strange and inexperienced, for what is important for the country in the field of real politics and economy. It always remains, in my view, committed to the SME agenda. Despite the aid of the media activists, the Civic Opposition is disorganized and promises to itself. Even her sense of humor is completely unsuccessful. Gate was saying that more than anything else, the character of man is seen by what he thinks is funny. And while politics is very important - it is always important, especially if you are opposition - I think that if we talk in the second place about SYRIZA, once we took over the fates of the country, we must say that the economy is the most crucial size. There are suffocating data and frameworks, but we know that economic relations are regulated by the world market and markets and exchange rates are not, unfortunately, extinct by government decisions or even by nationalisation of the means of production, as history often teaches. Moreover, the national economy, the social and Community economy can only develop through global and continental changes. However, it remains a condition for management to serve the national and people's interests. Nevertheless, broadening the redistribution of wealth and supporting development are pillars of any overthrow. I think that's where we'll be judged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u466	Minister, can you make the clarifications on the parliamentary amendments at this point?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u467	Just say that the parliamentary amendments under the general number 1175, 1182, 1183, 1198, 1201 are accepted. The amendment is not accepted under a general number 1194.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u468	Mr. Javarra, would you like to see this speech? You've got three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u469	Yes, Madam President. I'd just like a little tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u470	I have tolerance, but everyone's taking advantage of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u471	Madam President, I have secondary and tritology. I'll do them all together. Ladies and gentlemen, I have come to a conclusion since the morning following the speeches by all the Members. You are accusing the Civic Opposition that as a New Democracy you are expressing the few, while you are expressing the many. You serve progress while we maintain it. And the worst thing I've heard before is that we have no sense of humor, because humor should have something to do with funny and, of course, this is another dimension in humor, since in any case things may appear from the point of view of their disposal, Minister, who are trying to improve - at least in the field of education - the situations, but in a way that is completely incompatible with the real facts of history. I cannot understand how you call us neoliberal on the one hand and, at the same time, tell us that we have no proposals. But if anyone's neoliberal, the suggestions are data. Obviously, what we are saying is that you cannot classify them as a neoliberal approach, and so what you still have is a question of our proposals. But listen to me, so you can tell me if what I'm going to say now, you can rank them into a neoliberal approach. Indeed, it is well known to everyone - at least to those of you who are academic teachers - that for at least fifteen, twenty years the major problem facing us at European level, but also at international level, is how we will organise a university, which is linked to the modern economic, fair and ethical conditions in the field of research. Top on this issue in April 1998, in particular in Stanford, Jacques Derrida expressed a confession of faith in the future university, entitled 'Unconditionally University'. At least, this university should be able to serve today, namely a university where there will be an unrestricted possibility of questioning on the current problems, a university that will ensure an unrestricted possibility of telling the truth, looking for the truth, moving ideas and being within the magma of the meanings that each time create the preconditions for a historically present and future. Nonetheless, what I am trying to see is what the issues of substance - pedagogical, research and scientific matters are - which regulates the bill you bring us, what is the substance of pedagogicals, what is the essence of this unlimited research on the basis of the truth? What you bring in and what you regulate are not matters of substance, are matters of authority within the university. So, what are you doing? Redistribute the relationships within the university, either by intervening in matters relating to the selection of the collective bodies of the universities, or by allowing other categories that exist in the university which have administrative or technical functions to participate and take decisions where this unconditional, unconditional, unconditional, free in research and the transmission of knowledge should be discussed each time. In order not to fill you with things that may seem neoliberal, I will say to you: can you tell me this article 46, this introduction of the single unbroken title called master integrated in English - and it is in parentheses - from where it arises if it comes from this intention that you have a fetishism of diplomas and diplomas? Why is that other than sharing mirrors to young people who want above all is to set up, open streets for their future, find a place on the market in Greece? And the second thing I wanted to point out is this: do you make an amendment to Article 4 and what do you change? Remove the most important expression. You say that the mission of the higher education institutions is not to meet the needs of the market and the professional fields. But that is exactly what you contradict, firstly, the essence of the reform that you are doing, as regards the five-year master, which is not a master, is - I repeat - a fetish that you are making and severing from the real functions of its existence. Secondly, if - and you will allow me to - professeur, a teacher means that he is responsible for drawing up a student, this is on the basis of the fact that Professor Professeur is committed to the truth and confesss to this commitment. That is why the professions are called professionals in French, just like what I say to you creates the establishment and functioning of the word 'profession'. It is therefore inextricably linked to the university's functioning to the formation of professionals, that is to say, those who have this training will come to the market and perform a function. Instead, unfortunately, you don't give anything - but none! -One way out. What you are doing in the final analysis - and it appears in Article 32 and Article 49 - is systematically violating this academic freedom, which is enshrined in the Constitution in Article 16. Above all, however, what I do not know about you being proud of is that you are exercising suffocating administrative supervision, not oversight of legality, which is permissible, but of feasibility, because you have the possibility and the power - which you are taking it yourself - to the detriment of this 'unprecedent', the unconditional functioning of science and truth, and you are creating exactly something that is unthinkable. In other words, you have the power with this bill to modify, in the face of the opposition of the institutions of the university administration, anything that has to do with the postgraduate fees. You are also recruiting as supervisory assistants, completely arbitrary, some bodies which obviously serve no authority and no respect for academic freedom, these wonderful regional boards of academic supervision - I don't know exactly what you're saying. After all this, I honestly tell you that at least you, a professor, should really have for a driver of this great 20th-century intellectual, who was also a university professor and actually gave us a gospel, gave us a promise for tomorrow's university, which if you really are the ones who are making progress, you should bring it here today, you should discuss it, you should also share our agony for the future and through these processes we should give the youth of this place hope, which means a promise for a better tomorrow by the profession. That is what I have to say and thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u472	You had second thoughts, Mr. Javarra. Mr. Davakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u473	Ladies and gentlemen, it was certain that a few years after the cross-party illusion of Diamantopoulou, the inconvenience of the inter-party consensus of the 255 Members, it would also be time for its establishment. It is a response to why the country is constantly tempted to the same warp and problems that have been brought to it for so many years by ideologies and unscrupulous political choices, in a phase like the one with the legislation you bring, Minister. In my view an effective legal framework for higher education must pursue three main objectives: To enable and encourage universities to continuously adapt their curricula to modern reality and to the needs of the labour market. To strengthen and facilitate with concrete incentives the islands of research quality, which do exist in the Greek universities. To make it easier for Greek universities to attract foreign students to their curriculum. I think that the bill, which will soon be voted on by the government majority, does not bring them together. On the contrary, it creates obstacles to any attempt to modernise the Greek university. The examples that support this view are diffuse in this bill. As far as asylum is concerned, it is now a green card for anyone who wants to enter university. We are witnessing - to use a word that is perhaps not so well known - for asylum, because asylum has taken on an ideological and philosophical, if you like, a charge which should not exist. It's very simple. Either we see what is going on abroad or in any case see who has to enter the universities. Who has to enter the universities? Teachers, students, administrative staff and guests must enter. Once the university is a public space, a market space not only for any offence or forensics, but also for anything that will hinder the educational process, I believe that everyone must find us opposing, which you, Minister, do not bring, by setting up again what I have said. In addition, extended asylum, combined with the provisions of Article 15 for polling rather than e-voking, gives further support to what I am saying, giving the organised and violent minority - we have clear examples of the past, but also of the present - the possibility of blocking any democratic process. I feel, therefore, that the two worlds mentioned earlier by the university MP of the government, Mr Sevastakis, with manicure, extremism and adjectives, are emphasizing on your side in dealing with the other major party that is the New Democracy, the Officerial Representation, by giving us the label of those who are engaged in and interested in colleges, for the north and not the western suburbs, and for all the things that constitute an elitist reality with regard to higher education. This is two worlds. This is a huge injustice towards a people's party such as the New Democracy party, whose parliamentary members do not come from the northern suburbs. The vast majority of Members of Parliament in New Democracy come from the ordinary people of the Greek region and urban centres, the mere poor bio-opportunists who support this party over time. It is indebted to the New Democracy to define it as a representative of the majestic strata, as you want to create this molding reality. Before I close, I feel the need to say, Minister, that we have been waiting for something different. We have waited for some corrective moves with regard to the Diamantopoulou Act and not this finding from your ideological tendencies of legislative initiative. Before I finish, I would like to say something, because the co-chairs of the co-chairman must know this, who will vote for this bill. Along with this draft law on education, we also have an amendment on submarines. Among the many amendments, we have one for the submarines of the Navy. We, as a New Democracy, will vote for this amendment because we believe that we are contributing to extending the turnover of the shipyards. But it is a different matter. I regret, in fact, that the Minister responsible is not here. When will it be completed and when will it be presented to the National Representation, or with majestics proclaimed and announced, if you wish, by the saying of the Minister of National Defence, as well as the Deputy Minister responsible for a project for our defence industry? We are bringing today a new amendment - six months ago, we had the same amendment on this issue - with the money of the Greek people. We'll vote for it, but finally, bring in a specific plan for the defence industry. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I wanted to ask something. When the work of the four submarines is finished, will an amendment come back to pay the workers who, of course, give themselves the best for the continuation and survival of the defence industry? These are issues which, because of the way in which bad legislation is constantly liberating through the amendments to the bills, must concern us all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u474	Thank you, Mr Davaki, for keeping time. It's important. Mrs. Thalerite has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u475	Ladies and gentlemen, if we could describe this draft bill with one proposal, we would say that this is a democratic regulation and a regulation which contributes to a more rational and qualitative organization of HEIs. However, in no case is this a scandalous and backward reform that turns us back in the 1980s, as counterpopulation has just mentioned. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill reflects the titanic efforts made by the government to highlight its left-wing identity in a suffocating environment in the crisis and the committee. What does that mean? It means that there is no possibility of sufficient funding for what it considers necessary and necessary to do. There is also a set of distortions that are not common in other European countries, such as clientele relations at the AEIs, the guilds, the syndicate cultures and much more, which this government is called upon to resolve. In the context of these restrictions, therefore, it has succeeded in forming a promotional framework for HEIs, because, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the cuts already made by the universities in their budgets by the Memorandums and which the government is trying to overcome, the universities have also been subjected to a strong neoliberal attack and are being led day after day to a profound alteration of their public and free character. Legislative interventions since 2007, culminating in those of Diamantopoulou and Arvanitopoulos, aimed at degradation from within the public education. They have brought reduced representation to the institutions, to the control - as we all remember - of the institutions through the Council of those institutions which ensured their desired composition, relaxed to the absence of a framework for the operation of institutions and structures, such as postgraduate and lifelong learning institutions. So, in this context of universities, the government comes with this bill to heal wounds, correct and produce an integrated democratic and operational intervention for the future. What is being attempted for the first time is the creation of a single area in education and research. For example, academic regional councils are a new tool involving universities, TEIs, research centres. The whole reform is aimed at exploiting the human potential available in universities, infrastructures in research centres and in the TEI and, therefore, connecting universities, TEIs and research centres functionally and producing added value. So, through these academic regional councils, the area itself, the region itself, now having at its disposal tools, such as this new tool, is being strengthened to develop partnerships with social and productive actors at local level, to shape and strengthen the landscape and also to strengthen the development profiles and capabilities of the region itself. In other words, the university has what every left-wing man wants, that is to say, to return part of the great work and knowledge to society and explore the needs of society itself, where he is finally called upon to solve several problems of these local societies. Ladies and gentlemen, we are aware of the difficulties that any new reform effort can have. Nevertheless, this bill is an integrated institutional intervention in the organization of higher education institutions, which came from a wider cycle of consultation with institutions of the academic community, social institutions. His immediate vote before the summer is therefore deemed to be necessary. Don't get lost another year for students who, because of financial difficulties, can't learn from their graduate programs of choice. However, it is clear that the Government also attaches particular importance to the issue of postgraduate studies and sets limitations, in a number of articles in the bill, so that the cost paid by students is within reasonable limits and that income criteria are taken into account. A student fee is imposed only if it is absolutely necessary to meet the operational needs of the postgraduate courses, while the unjustified high student fees are controlled by the Minister. We have a few examples of such postgraduate studies where they are really high, we would say, the ends. That is why the Minister must monitor them so that there is a balance and that there is access to those for students with lower incomes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we do not hide that our desire is to guarantee the right to free study for postgraduate studies. However, the budgets of the higher education institutions prevent us from implementing this vision. In this context, therefore, this comes with the Ministry and sets insurance controls, terms, functions and conditions to ensure, on the one hand, free access for students to postgraduate programmes irrespective of their financial situation and, on the other, that we have a reduction in the remuneration of regular staff. Substantially, the right to free students to a postgraduate students who have low income candidates' fees is guaranteed. On the other hand, in addition to regulating postgraduate studies, I would like to refer to provisions that broaden transparency and consensus institutions in the administration of universities, such as those concerning the participation in the collective bodies of the HEIs of all categories of teaching staff, administrative and student staff, the reopening of the Rector's Board and, in particular, the innovation of the separate ballots on how to elect a proprietor and the one-cross-stop-stop-stage election. I cannot fail here to omit all the changes that are taking place. The main thing for us is the abolition of the Diamantopoulou law management councils, which had taken the fire of counter-population. As has been said, this law may have been passed by most parliamentarians at that time, but it was one of the most anachronists and carved the HEIs to themselves in an elite and introverted way. Of course, I will not go into the details of how they were not working or how they were formed. Finally, I would like to refer to asylum. Let us say that the abolition of asylum has not solved any of the problems in the years that have passed, on the contrary, proves that no problem of infringability has been solved by the university's premises. This is why the current government comes and creates a working party precisely to form a framework based on the provision that we are legislating on. To conclude, I would like to point out that despite the difficulties that the government faces in the context of the crisis, which does not allow sufficient funding to be provided as we like and wish, this draft law nonetheless seeks and achieves a modern and forward-looking framework for the development and rationalisation of our country's HEIs. It is therefore worth voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u476	Mr. Dimitriadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u477	Thank you, Madam President. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, this draft law on education, higher education, is the culmination of the government's positive initiatives and strengthens the efforts of the two years around, in a perspective of continuing the progressive reforms required in tertiary education. We aim to create a forward-looking framework with academic rules at all levels of study, undergraduate, postgraduate, doctoral, lifelong learning, free access to postgraduate programmes for those who need, with transparency in the management of funds, a more democratic administrative structure and the creation - for the first time - of new institutions such as the academic regional councils. This attempt is being made at a difficult time, it is the truth, because there is also a limitation on the financing and committee status and a set of distortions that come from the past and regenerate a regime of customerity and syndicate attitudes. But an innovation that we are bringing is the effort for a single area of education and research. In an effort to promote a TEI framework, we are therefore inaugurating the gradual creation of the single area of higher education and research. The importance of the Single Higher Education Area project is important at the appropriate time in a productive reconstruction course in the country. Human resources and infrastructure must be restructured in order to produce higher value projects with a view to the knowledge economy and the needs of the country, always with a view to the needs of our future. In more detail, the provisions of the bill concern administration, the operation of postgraduate programmes, the promotion of the single area of higher education, the establishment of a title for integrated master studies, the establishment of two-way structures at the IOIs, the rationalisation of specific research funds, the establishment of a training centre for lifelong learning. This is also supported by the National Council for Education and Human Resources and the Committee for Education's Economics Study. For the first time, therefore, a regional body is institutionalised, the Academic Council of Higher Education and Research, which includes representatives of universities, TEIs and research centres and the relevant or any other region. I would like to point out here that the original idea and the initiative of this proposal belong to my region, to western Macedonia, and to its elected regional administration. Based on the development prospects of each institution, the potential for educational and research synergies, the development of critical common infrastructure and their interconnection and strengthening, the single area of higher education and research will reflect the development of synergies with social and productive actors at regional level. I shall mention, by name, a series of interventions in the management and representation of the HEIs: the abolition of management boards, the reintroduction of asylum, the reintroduction of student representation in the management board, the establishment of a rector board, ensuring the greatest possible representation, strengthening the role of the jewellery, and the participation of all departments in the Senate. At the same time, the bill gives the HEIs the power to expand their self-government. This legislative initiative, however, is developing a representative focusing on some supposedly weak points. Still, it turns out to be myths. The first myth, therefore, wants our universities to have great potential to attract foreign students, but this would only be possible in the event of a significant upgrading of the work and infrastructure of our universities and not through the tuition fees, which those who consider themselves to be not contributing to the economic strengthening of the HEIs, which, in fact, say they should also be free to impose them. This possibility is weakened by experience itself, which shows that given the incredible shortages in infrastructure, mainly housing, the country is not attractive to foreign students. The desire to regain university dispersal, which will strengthen institutions, is allegedly blocked by the government's refusal to introduce favourable treatment measures, financial incentives again through tuition. Here, and unlike any empirical given, the quality of the capacity already in service is unexplained to require that it be strengthened. On the contrary, you ignore the fact that the most powerful deterrent factor of regression seems to be, beyond wages, the extremely difficult working conditions prevailing in the Greek institutions and require staff and determination and vigilance and a great invention to overcome the problems. In addition, it is unexplained that the legislature's expressly stated intention in this case and in this bill to facilitate exchanges between the nationals throughout the world is unexplained. The legendary downgrade of postgraduate, that's what it is. There is no interest in the need for a modern, coherent and effective organisation of programmes, but once again it focuses on tuition fees. The big issue, asylum and student participation in administration, paradoxically in complete contrast to the European and American acquis and arbitrarily links a mere student participation in the end and the reinstatement of asylum to lawlessness. It is an argument not only naive ideologically and misguided propaganda, but deeply reactionary, faithful to the darkening womb that inspires it. The election of the anti-government with separate ballots and a one-stay undermines, they say, the self-help. It refers to a supposed deficit of transparency and opposes maximum autonomy as a panacea. However, it is often interpreted according to attitudes always towards arbitraryness. The tragic case of self-determination of the President of the Thessaloniki TEI in a position of secretary, the arbitrary definition of tuition fees and fees in postgraduate programmes and others are the examples that we simply have to avoid. Their sole purpose is to hide the truth that the bill finally broadens the autonomy of the institutions. In short, we are again in front of the classical and well-known rivalry between the demand for a work and a mere political technocratic management to address the demand for political response to issues for the sake of substance. More generally, the imposition of tuition fees, the formulation of market mechanisms for deregulation of functions and the concentrating of governance structures are the coherent web of those fighting the law. They are in complete contrast with the cultures of social needs and collectiveness, which seek to interconnect the entire area of research and science with society and, indeed, with the objectives of strategies for the development of the country and not with the objectives of market opportunities. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Madam President. At this point the dilemma at which the bill ultimately answers is: Does higher education and research structures apologize to the market or country? The answer is biased for us and is in favour of the country and its citizens. We therefore have two political options: One seeks to establish individual-based models and seek ideological manipulation through interactivity. The other, despite all the disparities in the level of the association of powers, aims at social emancipation and freedom, always guided by collective action and thought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u478	As time has gone too far, there is a proposal that speaking time should be reduced to five minutes. Besides, they've spoken to about fifty people so far. Let the next two talk for seven minutes each. Let them try to limit themselves, because, ladies and gentlemen, instead of seven minutes, you are all speaking ten. You're all compelled to repeat. Everything has been said, either on the one hand or on the other. Let Mr. Loverdos come in and set an example.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u479	Mr President, after Mr. Loverdos, can I take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u480	Mr Baltas is next speaker. You will take the floor after Mr Balta. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u481	Ladies and gentlemen, the President is right. It is true that everything has been said. I will not add anything in particular with my speech, but I would like to highlight a number of issues, which is why I am speaking from the Step today, after a two-day debate. It made me very bad, Minister, your speech yesterday, because you referred in a way to those universities or to the organs of the universities, not to one but more universities, who spoke negatively about your political child. They have the right to do this and the dialogue involves it. Maybe you're not used to this. You cannot speak here, from the Step of the House, saying ridiculously about the arguments of university institutions and people at the university, because they express their views and you must respect them, since you do not respect their views. The Prime Minister told you at some point you look like Einstein. He's right. "You bring him" to him, because this scientist with his achievements has shaped a better future for mankind. You as a politician - as a scientist - are another issue, it is your issue - with your political child today you are looking forward to the past. Make a dive of trajectory in the past. I shall mention a few examples which have been referred to against Cork, but I would like to explain one of them, because there is a real misunderstanding to you too. You have happened in your day to deal with issues of violence and lawlessness in university spaces. What made me a terrible impression, ladies and gentlemen, was the fact of the dean of the University of Thessaly, which, because there was a competition for some area at the university, the occupations of this area - if they were - entered, they took the files, pre-paid a university employee and stopped the process, there were a couple of references to the channels and finally. This has been done with the current regime, the law that you are changing. In my day, for example, the dean of the University of Athens - it was Rector, Mr. Fortsakis at the time - was much more critical and useful than yours, which is bureaucratic and inappropriate and yet we lived the phenomenon of the police not intervening, not performing its duties. If the National Representation wanted to discuss a matter, it was to discuss this with any regime that facilitates the enforcement of order and law or which does not facilitate it, such as your intervention, we have a refusal of police forces to intervene, because even with the old regime that you are changing today, they are asking for the Dean's phone. Instead, the National Representation to turn to the issue is peculiar because the problem - I understand it from Mr Philly's speech - is your alignment with your previous ones on an issue - I mean what you said before the 1915 elections - since you have forsaken everything else because that was not there. On this subject you are making a political trick to "feel" your own political friends, and you compete with who will say it better. It is wrong to say that your intervention and it was a very great mistake to say that, in your view, asylum issues would solve the critical student movement, the ones that have been mentioned. If you were a Christian, you would say about divine welfare. You are not, however, a minister to either make your references to the Left or, if you were a fanatical Christian, your references to divine welfare. To do a job, you're here. It's another political task. So this is for asylum. Now, the old-fashioned association you reintroduce is reintroduced without any ODA. On my own few days at the Ministry I had the consent of the New Democracy, the PASOK at that time and - without wanting to say anything more than the truth - of the Communist Party - I had asked, in writing, that no political space would object to the creation of the OLAF, of course, by a process involving the student movement rather than the politicians. We told the Ministry of Education that the OSCE needs to do so, because any connection to the extent that it existed at that time, or dialogue between the institutions of the university and the state, must have a central interlocutor on the part of the student movement. No move you have made in this regard, and yet you restore old-fashioned forms of administration that life has passed, in order to align yourself with life itself has passed. That is what I wanted to say to you as practical matters concerning the substance of the issues you want to regulate, while you play politically. You do not, in my view, look at these matters in this regard. [[At this point the Z' Vice-President of the House takes over Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES]] You said in an abstraction of your speech - obviously I haven't heard it, but everyone tells you, they put it in the mouth - and you reiterated it here in a more polite way yesterday, that anyone who doesn't like it - and I talk about postgraduate - this law, the way it is imported, the references, etc., get up and go. I would like to ask my fellow Members and you before all, who, in such a comfortable way, spoke negatively of the person who wants to improve his incomes of EUR 1,400, who has a family, who has four doctoral degrees, who has skills, who wants to do EUR 1,400. What social position do you call this from? Where are you - but not just you and many colleagues on the majority who have spoken - to speak with this economic comfort? You guys go first. You and your backward county leave first and not the people of the university. Because it is arrogance to say the other "EUR 1,400 is well and if you want". It's champagne - I beg your pardon, politically, I mean it in a different way - to say that there are your colleagues who do it for free. Of course, in Athens Economics with the sixty-five LAG members there are no lessons to do in undergraduate degrees and your work is done in postgraduate. At the University of Piraeus with the twenty-three boarding members this doesn't come out. Who are you to tell a man who is fighting for his life and for his family that the EUR 1,400 is fine and if you want to? You should leave, then, not the people of the university. Finally, one more matter, Minister, has been discussed with the parliamentary control procedures. I had brought to Parliament and accepted four foreign-language undergraduate departments, in Crete, in Chios, in Rhodes, in Democritus University of Thrace for ancient Greek letters, addressed to students outside the European Union, so that we do not have the problems with Article 16 and with Union law. He had responded to the Democrat. All of them had started, and you patrons, the negatives of evolution, stopped them, first Mr Baltas and then you. Mr. Friends had shown interest, and we had had the debate here on the occasion of a three-year programme of the University of Athens, if I remember correctly. It was a great opportunity. Without yet opening up the issues of Article 16, having thousands of people here from Africa, from Asia. We had the experience of colleagues, in Crete, in the graduate of the Polytechnic for a postgraduate of twenty-sixteen places to become ninety applications for participation by senior African students. This procedure that we had opened, six seven months more, we would have gone ahead with it. You'd have found her ready. But then I'm sure you would do something to stop her, because she's not in your mind. This international university and all that you have said to me in parliamentary control and you have said here, we do not believe you mean it. You are negative to this kind of procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u482	Mr. Comrade, finish 'cause we're at nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u483	I'll be right back, Mr. President. If we had a normal legislative procedure, Mr President, you know that well, we would also have room for the amendments. I have tabled an amendment with five other colleagues. We have tabled an amendment which seeks to respond to the discomforts and looting of the Greek administrative system. I had, as Minister of Education, proposed to the House, and the House had agreed to regulate matters relating to DEREE's graduates. The Greek administration was disgraceful, because it did not want it, under the new leadership of the Ministry, to say that the paragraph of this article does not allow. It must also be made special arrangements in this respect. The interpretation was not enough. It had to be something special. You don't. Mr Christophilopoulou, Mr Marios Georgiadis, Mr Fotilis, Mr Kefalidou and I have tabled a proposal to finish this issue and to relieve people who, without any reason, have a problem for decades. It's up to you to do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u484	Mr. Loverdo, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u485	I'm done. I am told by various colleagues from the university that I did not know. It hadn't happened to me in my career. Many departments start from August 20th in the academic year. Perhaps you could consider starting the academic year to carry it ten days later. It's very good. If that's the way your experience confirms...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u486	These are internal regulations. To make the institutions decide.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u487	This can be decided by you centrally for all the institutions. Do it by confronting a problem that exists. You're not wrong with what you're saying, but it could be done on your part.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u488	We're done, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u489	Finally, you tabled an amendment and a second amendment with corrections, in relation to those which have to be paid to the Greek university. It's unthinkable to regulate the way you did it. If you can give a clarification now. What is the exact percentage that the amendment means in the second version that you have tabled today? If you don't understand what you're adjusting, take it back and bring it in September. If you can now tell us exactly how you mean regulation, record it in the Minutes and be able to serve in the interpretation of your provision, it would be a good thing. Thank you, Mr. Lykoudi. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u490	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u491	Minister, would you like to speak now? Do you know why I'm saying it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u492	I've reached out to your partner. I won't talk right now. However, since the Chief of Police and many Members of Parliament have referred to what I said, 'if they want to leave, let me make it clear, because we are not tolerated to be told 'you leave'. Look, what we're saying is there's a threat from some people who want with the extra rent to double their wages. They say - not all of them, because they have a public reason - 'if you don't do it to us, we'll get out of here'. The answer again is 'to get out'. Because they are not the ones who take the extra reward, the good and the worthy, while the others are the poor and the ones who do it for their own good. And I haven't heard you say that, Mr. Loverdo and no one else. The silence in the next thing I'll tell you is shocking. We say that if a post-graduate student has a certain amount of resources left to pay those who already have a salary, instead of doing so, to declare the job for young scientists. Only if they don't show up, will they take the price? Are you in favour of this process being proclaimed for young scientists or not? That's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u493	No, don't ask, 'cause there's gonna be an answer and it's going to be said. Minister, thank you. My colleague, Mrs Christodoulopoulos, has informed me that you have agreed to reduce the time to five minutes. We're not cutting time from masochism. We can't. Time doesn't come back. Mr Aristides Baltas has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u494	It is a happy coincidence that what I have to say is directly related to what Mr Loverdos said and to what Mr Gavroglou said. I begin with a phrase from Mr Theocharopoulos this morning. He said that free postgraduate equals populism. If he does not know that this category should be sent to Germany, France, the Netherlands, in all the countries of Europe, where postgraduates are free. I exclude the United Kingdom. I'll come back. Free postgraduate has the National Technical University, which also has costs for postgraduate studies, because it has laboratories and other consumables. Free postgraduate has the Panteion University and other universities in the country. Secondly, in relation to pay, I do not know what Mr. Loverdos has to say about the university after so many years, but the concept of an additional fee for postgraduate is out of the Greek university's statutory function. And I'm explaining what I mean. The university is an adventurous place. It is a position of responsibility, it is a place of glory - if you will - a place through which it teaches and investigates, and that is his duty. This teacher is full-time and full-time at a department and at a university. Fully and exclusively means he doesn't have passes, he doesn't have any ways to go around, around and collect money. If he has additional earnings, these are, in principle, his writings, his written rights and anything else that is consistent with this type of function. It is full and exclusive, which means full-time hours - if it makes sense - even though the working hours in universities are not working. Mr Mitsotakis said in the morning the other, monstrous phrase: "As an overtime university, the university is working in an adjoining postgraduate." The concept of overtime here is funny. On the contrary, one may, because one has a specialty and wants to help one next to another on the invitation, to do a joint postgraduate course between a university and another university, obviously, without a fee. From there on, if you think that the EUR 1 200 at the university - I do not know how much you said, I do not know exactly how much it is now - is very little, of course few. However, these few do not become much of a sting from the tuition fees that others pay to other postgraduate students. That's not how it's done. At the same time, you cannot say this when the glorified university has this little reward, but at the same time there is the famous Brain Drain and all the young scientists are leaving because they can't stand by half the 1,200, either as research or as teaching. So these additional money - although they exist - should be given to such young scientists. To finish, then, with all this chat about compulsory tuition fees for postgraduate and additional fees for full and exclusive university employment. Something about Mr Javarra, with whom I always feel, particularly happy, when we cross arguments, about the integrated master. You will forgive me, but here we disagree closely, horizontally and diagonally for this reason: you know that there is a European area of higher education governed by a process - the famous Bologna process - in which many of us disagree and in which a process - I do not know if you know that - powerful countries in Europe have excluded their emblematic institutions from this process. In the Bologna Process neither French Grandes Ecoles nor Oxford nor Cambridge nor Ibiriall nor any similar. Our governments at that time, subjecting to the jewels of a mysterious thing called the Bologna process and to which we were not obliged to join, because of the principle of subsidiarity - education systems are the work of each country separately - in a way that we were part of it. From there on, in order for the area of higher education and research to function, we need what they say 'credit units' - I do not go into details - and that is why five years - a diploma of the Polytechnic University has always been awarded to a foreign diploma. Here comes England, the United Kingdom, which has done with a one-consumer, the last three-year Polytechnics - so below our own TEIs - universities. This means that the Bachelor of the former Polytechnics and now universities is equal to the five-year Polytechnics. The four-year old Polytechnics, that is, the Bachelor plus a four-year total - is a higher, typically, for the European Union than for the five-year Polytechnic. I have always considered that a national crime. As long as this is not finalised and is not completed it is a national crime. The rest has nothing to do with this law, at least. I conclude here by saying that the whole piece of legislation opens up a road - there are many points that may need improvements, additions, changes in the road - in relation to the monstrous Diamantopoulou, which was so great a monstrous thing that Arvanitopoulos then corrected it, a road and a drum corpse, which, while still remains, continues to dismantle the Greek universities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u495	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Panagiotis Iliopoulou, from Golden Dawn, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u496	Thank you, Mr President. A few hours ago we were all on the same show. The Prime Minister had come, the President of the Police Department had come and were supposed to have had a wild confrontation, as are the news sites. However, these gentlemen have basically served in a new controversy. We have heard from Mr. Mitsotakis that he will abolish the law. Then came Mr. Tsipras and said "we, we restore the Giannakou framework" to put him in a difficult position. Mr Mitsotakis has returned, 'protecting - says - criminal evidence'. I'm reading what he was writing online today, after these speeches. So basically nothing, then, zero! We come and discuss a bill on Greek education, and we are basically committed to verbalism. Mr. Tsipras, of course, said more very good. He competed with Mr. Mitsotakis about who's legislating worse. I've never seen this before in my life. They competed here for how long for who legislates worse, who brings more amendments, who circumvents Parliament's Rules of Procedure. That was the debate of the two, supposedly, top politicians in the country. Who legislates worse than who legislates better. Of course, the Prime Minister told us and other nice things, that the university student prevents mass police operations in the institutions, that the dialogue that preceded it - and we have been dizzy for so many years about the famous asylum - is torturing the public sphere. Listen to the Prime Minister's proposal, 'banging the public bullet'. All you're tormenting the famous asylum is the universities and the students who want people to study. They're the only ones tormented. He said it was the students who didn't pick up the balls, not the sanctuary. That's what we heard today. Probably the Prime Minister of the country thinks he's still president of some student party. He's forgotten he's running a whole country. After talking about asylum to come back and say that as Golden Dawn we do not recognize any asylum at any university. We do not recognize any unbaptised ones, such as that of the Exarchates, such as the occupations in which each government offers light, water, telephone to practice their revolutionary gymnastics the children of the northern suburbs, the rich children. The university asylum is not used for the free movement of ideas, it is used for the trafficking of drugs, molotovs, illegal immigrants, it becomes a premier for invasions of all kinds and all kinds. All this, of course, happened so Mr. Mitsotakis wouldn't move. In the governments of New Democracy and PASOK, it was assumed that all together had abolished this famous asylum, but at the time what was supposed to have been abolished, not a single police officer entered a university. So leave them for lawlessness, etc., and you of the New Democracy. Student groups are another scourge that the Golden Dawn will abolish. They have absolutely no reason to exist. We would also like to ask this asylum how it is for the free movement of ideas. So you compete with who will abolish the bill of another one, while you could do this: You could go abroad, find four - five universities of international authority, which operate hundreds of years. There are also such universities in Europe, in America and around the world. They've been working for hundreds of years. So these people are doing something right. Get the models from these universities, come here to Greece and adapt them to Greek reality. And there, we will agree with you, to legislate together, with three hundred votes, not one hundred and fifty three, which you will be voting for tomorrow, so that education will not be upset over the next few decades. To legislate together and what we are going to say has been the case for many decades. You are not going to do that, because everyone serves their interests, and that is why one Minister is changing each other's legislation. We want universities to be real jewelry, to be the mirror of the Greek society, to be the mirror of our country. So it must be all educational institutions, not just universities, because education shows the level and quality of every people. Of course, how to talk about Greek education, when in most schools, already, our country, mainly primary and secondary education, the Greeks are a minority. It's a huge matter. In fact, tomorrow there is a committee which will study the problem of fertility in our home country and which - he says - will discuss a study of 1993. You're far behind. In a few years, we will not talk about Greek education, because Greek birds will not be involved, there will be no Greek birds. I would like to say too much. But I will close as long as I live with the criminal organisation of PASOK and the criminal organisation of the New Democracy. The PASOK, already on Friday, gathered another eight years in prison and reached forty-two years in prison - and indeed, they are not his own random officials, but the Shemite Government ministers - and they have dropped their main offences. Mandelis ate eight years, while his crime on bribery has been dropped, which brings life sentence. Crimes against the Greek people are never recorded. With a Golden Dawn government all this will come to light and no one will be left unavoidable. There is, however, another one, who has been found to be Mr Mitsotakis' right hand, who has, unfortunately, passed from these chairs. If it was an accident, not a member of the Golden Dawn, but a third cousin of a one who had been outside the Golden Dawn office, would have become the first topic. We are talking about a former MP - Nikos Georgiadis is his name, you of the New Democracy - who had a strange habit: he wanted to go with minors. This man, unfortunately, has passed through these benches and was the right hand, gentlemen of the New Democracy, your President. He was the leader of his campaign to be President of the New Democracy and you're not making a spear. For those who are naive, then, still believe that the New Democracy supports the three-fold patronage - religion - family, they can continue to believe the New Democracy and its great words, the New Democracy of paedophiles, Mr. Georgiadis, the New Democracy of transsexuals of Mr. Mitsotakis. For some others, though, who really believe in patronage - family religion, there is Golden Dawn. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Gentlemen of SYRIZA, you are troubled with the truths they hear.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u497	Mr Colleagues, this Parliament is affected, it is not the Members who are affected.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u498	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u499	You are a representative of a party in the Chair and you have said unacceptable things. Adapt to the role of your parliamentary representative. If that's possible!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u500	What is unacceptable?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u501	Do you want anything, Mr. Pappa? Did you hear what your colleague said? Do you accept them? Do you accept what he said?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u502	Mr President, two hours he had them translated into his office, Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u503	But is that possible?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u504	Listen, Mr. President. It is in Greek justice, and in fact, a month ago, Georgiadis was postponed. He offends the Greek Parliament because a pedophile, literally, has passed through the seat of the Greek Parliament, and he is also a partner of the President of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u505	Mr Colleagues, this level speech has never been made in this House before. Do you understand what I'm saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u506	If I offend you, not the one who's a pedophile, and I mention it...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u507	At this level, it has never been spoken to the House before!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u508	Of course, there has never been a speech and there has never been a paedophile former MP before.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u509	But don't you get it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u510	But, Mr. President, I'm talking to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u511	Please don't you understand what you're saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u512	We're talking about a bill of education, and I'm telling you that New Democracy is how it perceives education. He had his right hand...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u513	I apologise to this House. There's nothing more to be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u514	Are you asking for apologies? For Mr. Georgiadis, don't you have anything to say?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u515	Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u516	You're covering for him?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u517	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u518	Mr Javarra, you realize I can't do anything more.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u519	Let's hear Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u520	My colleague doesn't understand what he's saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u521	Mr. Javarra, do you deny it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u522	Well, vulgarity has a limit. It's Golden Dawn. It is the personalization of the anti-parliamentary vulnerability.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u523	Do you cover him, Mr. Javarra?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u524	Who am I covering, sir?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u525	Do you know Mr. Georgiadis?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u526	First of all, it is such a level that you do not understand where you are.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u527	Your level. But you're covering a pedophile.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u528	But can I tell you something? It's not your fault. It's the people who send you to the House. It is the fault of those who, in your presence here, are making democracy blackmail. That's the story with you. Because just your soul is as black as the level of the civilization you serve is fascism in person. That's what I wanted to say!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u529	You're covering for him?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u530	Mr. Comrade, you're done. Do not write to the Minutes. They will not be written in the Minutes from now on what is being heard. You're done! Please turn off the microphone. The microphone's closed. They're not written in the Minutes. The next speaker is Mr Excellency from SYRIZA. Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat. I apologise to this House. There was nothing more I could do. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u531	Mr. President, may I? I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u532	Here, Mr. Javarra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u533	I think that at some point we need to be serious about the appearance of some people who, in the name of their capacity, offend values and principles of democracy and parliamentaryism. By listening to them indisputably, by giving them a step and giving them the impression that we here do nothing but tolerate them, I think we offer a very bad service to democracy. We democracy demands that we defend it. These vulnerabilities that we have heard before, what this type of person who has literally raised at the Step and I think he has contaminated this democratic step with the black culture he serves is for me. We can no longer tolerate that, Mr President. Anyone who cannot understand that what he says has nothing to do with democratic culture - which Members are obliged to serve - and anyone who does not respect the space cannot respect him. Here, anyone who enters this Chamber should first, make himself clean, leave his black soul and the black level of civilization that serves outside the door of this Chamber. Otherwise, we have an obligation to defend ourselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u534	I understand your wrath. Let's finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u535	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u536	You don't have the floor, Mr. Pappa. No way!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u537	Mr President, for a minute on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u538	What personal? What's your staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u539	On staff, what Mr Javarras said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u540	Please, too! Instead of going to protest about what we have heard from your colleague, would you like the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u541	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u542	You don't have the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u543	The word 'Javaras' should be deleted from the Minutes. Mr. Javara's hypocrisy is too much. The so-called party of "paris - religion - family" must have in the middle of paedophiles...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u544	Please start your speech, Your Excellency. What you say will be written in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u545	The fact that we don't respect the space is quite...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u546	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u547	Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing an important draft law on higher education today in the wake of two important events. First, Greece's exit to the markets after years of exclusion and marginalisation marks the beginning of a great return to our country, the end of the committee. It is a tangible prospect that in 2018 the year of long exit from the memorials and comitology is specified. Secondly, the Central Greece Regional Development Conference, the second after western Macedonia, a few days ago in Lamia also marked the synergy between the central government and local government for the development of the region. The call of the Prime Minister and the Government responded to all representatives of local societies without exceptions. These two events revealed the categorization of the Civic Opposition. The attempt to reduce and ease the exit to the markets as a minor event cannot hide the embarrassment of the New Democracy in the face of the new data of the Greek economy. And her leader's calls to party officials to boycott with their absence the Lamia conference fell into the void. The executives ignored the paradoxical and paradoxical arrangements of Mr.Mitsotakis, first of all, the Regional Director of Central Greece, Mr. Bakoyannis, who responded with close collaboration with the call of the Prime Minister. It seems that your bad right-wing chords are not only repellent by rival ideological citizens, but they are sounding in your own executives now, they close their ears because they feel alienated by the extreme extremity of your opposition. Rightly and deservingly the leader of the New Democracy would claim the title of the malicious manoeuvre of Greek political life. The New Democracy as an extrapolation of social liberalism is being dragged from its present leader to the blurred waters of extreme right-wing populism. But all this is illustrated in the way New Democracy opposes this bill. In the opposite of the neoliberal perception this bill is a substantial interference of the Government's initiatives in higher education that started in January 2015, including the experience gained in these two and a half years. At this point I would like to stress that this bill is only one of a number of interventions that translate the map of higher education and research into our country as a whole. We have called for five hundred IPA posts in the last 12 months against zero notices in the past five years. In addition, five hundred posts will be allocated in 2018. You are cut off, gentlemen, for the leaking of scientific staff abroad. How many ICPs have you published on your governments? None. We are essentially supporting the Scholarship Programme of EUR 202.5 million for the next four years for over ten thousand undergraduate and seven and a half thousand postgraduate doctors, postdoctors for the purpose of rescheduling Brain Drain, strengthening research and productive powers. Are you, gentlemen, of the opposition, for excellence, but how much euro did you give scholarships for the best minds in the country? Zero. We establish and finance the institution of the academic scholar for young scientists who want to gain teaching experience in the HEI with EUR 42 million funds and three thousand seven hundred beneficiaries. What have you done for the candidate doctors, who are even used today to meet the teaching needs of the HEIs without the slightest recognition of their teaching pre-services? Zero, gentlemen, of the New Democracy and of the PASOK. At the same time as this draft law we are strengthening academic criteria for access to postgraduate and free access to economically weak students. We are expressly reintroducing the institution of university asylum. The DISY, PASOK is being taken over because it voted in favour of asylum in 1982 when the same vote abolished it in 2011. When was he right? The abolition of asylum in 2011, what solved it? For all the wrongs, you say it's the asylum. This clumsy right-wing voice that it was the asylum that solved nothing. The other big issue that is confronted is the question of student participation in the collective institutions. So, you don't want active students to participate in the university's activities? Do you want any customers alone? Didn't you finally see who the institutions of interlocutory have been at universities all these years? Didn't they be protagonists of the interactive teachers approaching students? Ladies and gentlemen, we understand the abstention of the New Democracy and PASOK for this bill. It is a disgrace to democratic legitimacy. It is dissatisfaction with transparency and open procedures in the administration. It is the discontent over the introduction of sound rules. It is the abstention of coexistence, understanding and synthesis of views. It's your allergy to representativeness. It's your selective affinity to the complication. Your love for the imperial power circuits. It is your scandalous concern for interest groups and their uncontrolled action in the field of universities. You are envisioning an authoritarian police state when we envision a favoured state and the rule of law with respect for rights and freedoms. You're visioning a police campus run by the bolt. We are implementing a university with a single area of education and research with democratic function and open democratic procedures.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u548	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u549	I shall conclude, Mr President. You envision a society - prison. We envision an open, free society of justice and solidarity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u550	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Nikolaos Paradiseopoulos from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u551	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try not to repeat something that has been said, either by me or by another Member. In some cases this is easy. In other words, if you want to show something good and positive, you probably have no fear of repeating something, because what you hear is usually attacks on the legislation or practices that have been ahead of you. I would like to say a good reason to the honourable Member, Mr Davaki. I respect his annoyance at the fact that his party hears a criticism that he is a party of the northern suburbs. I sincerely consider his annoyance and really take care of her. But there's something objective. How can it be explained that this party, New Democracy, objects to anti-constitutionalism, that the Minister controls excessive tuition fees at postgraduate degrees and can go back to university with some prediction in case these tuition fees are excessive, where there are no provisions for students who have low incomes or in any case are impossible. Here we are dealing with one case, which obviously concerns control, in favour of constitutionality, in favour of the poor, the possibility of access to education, even to the weak. Of course, control in favour of constitutionality is self-evident that it can be done within the framework of constitutional supervision by the Minister. You are all aware that the Minister has always been able to exercise legitimacy over the judgements of the teachers. If it can exercise legality, why not exercise a constitutionality check, and indeed in a way that certainly respects university institutions and the self-government of universities, since the relevant crisis is referred back to the university. The second good reason I want to say is for the Greek university. You know, as the Greek university describes - the asylum which has allegedly led to collapse and is linked to the desire of Greek students to leave - from some speakers and from the leader of the New Democracy, one should wonder how the Greek university produces such good graduates. However, we have the opportunity to see the projection of Greek graduates in so far as we know their good course in foreign universities when they go outside. You know, here sounds a lot without proof, but the good course of Greek students - already before 2010 and in the 1990s - is something that can be measured. For example, legal schools, to mention a very familiar example to me, occupy the world's first place in the virtual trial competitions. The Law of Athens and the Law of Thessaloniki. This university, these laws, which, of course, are "naked" when and when by some events, by some occupations, etc. They're doing it. How does that happen? I also don't know if you have this in mind, but the participation of Greek graduates in research competitions or in scholarships and even public scholarships from foreign universities is very high and much higher than the participation of the Greek population in the European population. How does this explain to have been produced by a university, which has been followed particularly by the eve of the resolution of Law 4009 and then constantly to date? I think we need to concentrate on the essential debate, how our education will be promoted. I think that from tomorrow, when the law is passed, our country will have a very good postgraduate framework. This will help her in particular for her future. It is taken into account and understandable that the difficulty of our graduates in finding work according to their specialty in our country is not due to the quality of their degree, but is a market issue. I want to say a good reason to the staff who produced this law, seeing how carefully the legislation on postgraduate has been designed, but also the return of the university administration to a way of rational, meritful and democratic, as I have tried to explain previously. I should also like to say, for the criticism, which has been said in relation to the positive changes made by the legislation, beyond being in my view unsatisfactory and unfounded, it concerns details. You know, this law here reinstates all the presidents to the Senate of the Greek universities. This is a very important change. The university regains the name university thanks to it. What opposes a flaw in the new way of command? The fact that the counter-protects will be elected otherwise. I think it's right. But, if it wasn't, do you think that for the world this is the most critical issue, and is it not the fact that the university is now being run by representatives of all sciences? All the other details, such as the one I heard as criticism of the asylum institution, and how will the Protestant Council stand out from the flood, I beg your pardon, but from 1982, when the law was in force until 2011, when Law 4009 came, did the law not call on the committee to distinguish the felony from the wound? Has anyone asked the question how this would be done? It is not understandable, is it not also known to the average citizen, if you like, how does the felony stand out from the wound? On the basis of the sentence, which each law expressly writes. If the sentence is over five years, it's a felony. If it's under five years, it's a flood. Do you need to ask a legal counsel to understand that? Not even a law student needs to be able to understand whether a crime, based on the sentence threatened, is a felony or a felony. Is that gonna be a malfunction? Look, I think that the debate on asylum cannot be held from 2011 onwards as it was before. Because since 2011, we have been assuming that despite the abolition of the institution, which has ceased to apply since 2011 and will apply again from now on, the situation at the university has not changed or, in particular, has not changed for the better. So the causes need to be looked into elsewhere for the violence that exists throughout Greek society and in the university space. In this respect, therefore, the draft legislation on asylum does not only create a climate of free consultation, which the Greek university needs, but it can also contribute to a serious debate in order to have a university free of violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u552	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Theocharis Theocharis, an independent Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u553	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard the Prime Minister, like you, talking about democracy, about public universities, about research that keeps or keeps the Greeks in our country. But I did not hear him withdraw the provisions forcing notaries to partition and directly assign the work of the electronic auction platform to the abbreviator of Mr. Kontonis' Minister. I didn't hear him say that the private sector bill goes under the private law to notable associations. The bill of "democracy" fascistly abolishes the post of assistant legal adviser of the Independent Public Procurement Authority, for he dares to say that this partition is illegal, i.e. to uncover the illegality. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Chakalotos has done a great deal of wisdom. He told us earlier that universities are selfish or are tools. It's neither one nor the other. Universities are worthy. We need them to achieve something. After all, Hannah Arndt tells us about democracy: we want it to be achieved in order to achieve equality. So what do we need from universities? To produce knowledge? Knowledge wants a peaceful academic environment, not a Roman student movement, to send my daughters to universities in a few years instead of studying, guarding the university from drug addicts. Knowledge wants academic criteria to take the lead, not to get other criteria in the middle, such as how to manage with a transparent view to student care. Why, after the Prime Minister himself denounced here from this Step a few hours ago what happened to the universities from the student campus, are you giving them power and power again? What do we need from universities? To produce wealth? The wealth wants research linked to production, so that we can prove scientifically the superiority of Greek products. If the university does not connect to promote Greek goat breeds, for example, with Spanish goats, how do we convince the feta is Greek? It can't be done. That is why we are losing these battles in international fora. The wealth wants to attract the peasants, the rosopla and the chinese birds to come here to study - but any of the rest of the world wants to do classical schools for a year can come here in Greece - not to get rid of the English-speaking postgraduate departments. For example, the innovative postgraduate toxicology program of the University of Thessaly that attracts students from all over the world, because it brings teachers from all over the world, now with the new bill will be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u554	What did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u555	Toxicology at the University of Thessaly.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u556	It's not closing. Don't say such things.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u557	If you don't know, here's the study of the National Bank about what higher education can give instantly. Attracting a hundred thousand foreign students and their tuition fees and increasing potential GDP by one to two units per year. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis, presents for the Minutes the above study, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What do we need from universities, ladies and gentlemen? To produce democratic citizens? It is the democratic citizen who does not tolerate lawlessness. Because laws in democracy are civil laws. Kill your Kastoriadis. I saw Mr Javarras before that he has been read. It is the democratic citizen who tolerates the opposite view, not the asylum person, to whom you are returning to us in 1982, who prevents other views from being heard in the amphitheater. Mr. Friends told us about asylum, which is a democratic conquest. Asylum is from the establishment of universities. Since the 19th century it has come. He's been morally right from the beginning. It's invoked by students in the 1897 uprising. What do we need from universities? To operate supplies to tomorrow's economic operators? In the 21st century, for a country like ours, three are the pillars of development: Human services with a peak of our tourism. Creative industries with a peak in our history. Education and culture. Continuing training with a peak of our universities. But not these universities, Minister. These do not provide supplies for the 21st century to their students. These make employees without supplies, underwear of their bosses for the next decades. That's what they make. I do not agree often with Mr Pafile, but he was right when he said so before. Because this is not a bill. It's a modern sabotage. Mr. Gabroglou is a modern Ludite, who imagines that the 21st century may not come. Because for you the universities exist for young people to spend time and not to get out of unemployment and depression and ruin economic and social indicators. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister spoke of self-interest, efficiency, democracy. Each paragraph of the bill is a razor on the face of the university self-employed. Every article of the bill is a fist in the stomach of university efficiency. Every word of the bill is a knife in the chest of democracy in the universities. Here's the framework law that the democratic, free, modern university needs. Article 1. Higher education has a basic mission of moral, intellectual, professional education for students, culture of research and innovation, academic excellence. Article 2. Universities have six months to draw up a regulation and an organization setting out all aspects of university organisation and operation to achieve their objectives. No signature of the Minister for these matters. All signatures stop with the dean. Article 3. The PPP is required in six months to present the financing criteria for universities. I give examples: number of students, number of publications, number of references, places in international university rankings. This is how matters are solved in the 21st century, with two-page laws, no compromises, no anachronisms, no claws. Because if we have something to do today to get out of the crisis, it is to let the politicians stand up on their own. We can't do it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Outside the executive power from the universities. Outside the executive government. Outside executive power from justice. Outside the executive power from the private initiative. You are turning back and sinking our country further into the crisis and driving it, as the markets showed last week, into the fourth memorandum. You do it by killing the dreams of every young man, as so many others did before you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u558	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Mr Ayhan Kara Yusuf, from SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u559	Thank you, Mr President. I'd like to speak from my position, because I won't exhaust the five-minute. I will not repeat what has already been said since the morning. We are talking today about the draft law of the Ministry of Education, which I believe - and we all believe it - is making deep areas in terms of operation and the administration of our higher education institutions. Our university, while, of course, maintaining its public character, should also be accessible to young people from all the social classes and groups of our people, both in undergraduate and postgraduate studies. We have been listening for two days since the bill was being discussed with criticism from the opposition, that the bill intends to take our educational system into account in the past. I would like to know from colleagues in the Opposition and in particular from the New Democracy: for them what is the future of our educational system? So we want school and university business with students and students? Is that the vision of the New Democracy? Why, on the other hand, are so concerned and there is a grievance about the change in the electoral system of universities with different ballots for presidents and vice versa, etc.Huh? It's just an analogue culture of understanding and not an authoritarianism. Just stuff. A coordinate change in the area of higher education is necessary in order to address the malfunctions that have naturally arisen from previous legislation. Schools were founded, you will remember, and departments in particular in the region for the needs of the local economy and not for the needs of local education, I will say. Then, of course, we will all remember that on the same criteria, again for economic reasons, they have closed or merged university institutions, schools and departments with the famous "ATHENA" project by Arvanitopoulos. We will insist that the solution is a lasting improvement in the quality of public education. Despite difficult economic conditions, this bill is a continuation of government actions to rebuild the social state and of the operation of a public university geared to the needs of the young and the academic community and not to private interests.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u560	Mr. Colleague, will you finish? Because you told me you'd talk a little bit and I didn't give you any time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u561	I think I haven't exhausted the five-minute, but if you see the timer of yours anyway. I'm sorry I don't have my own timer. I'll finish. Some people want the people to have short memory, to forget some things we've lived in the past. I'm going to give an example that sometime instead of books, they shared photocopies, etc. Not going too far. Let me remind you that last year the books arrived in schools and this year, to hear from my short-term neighbors, who are supposedly being cut off too much for the special system called minority education, came to school two months before the beginning of the next school year. I do not want to expand, because some things are seen by the people, as they see how low they have fallen and the level of the political speech of some old-fashioned politicians is, I would say, coming to offend a minister by saying that he looks like Einstein only in the face. This is an insult to a sacred place, to the temple of democracy called the Greek Parliament. I will not say any more, I just want to remind everyone who wants us to forget it, that education is a right and not a privilege to some and must be guaranteed by the state for all children equal, equal, equal and equal.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u562	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs. Aphrodite Stavoulis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u563	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot comment on the fact, even though it is almost forgotten since this morning, that this bill has again been heard by the astonishing billions. A hundred in two years were those lost by SYRIZA policy in general? Fifty in a decade is today, that is, ten every two years. But for the time being, 1.8 billion is lost only because of the fact that foreign language programmes are not being prepared, which would bring Chinese, Japanese, American and European people together, to learn the philosophy of Plato and Aristotle at their birthplaces, such rates and numbers, so that the sums claimed by the members of the democratic alliance and, in part, the Independent precedent can arise. Are the amounts actually included in New Democracy 100, or should we add them and catch the 110 billion losses, ladies and gentlemen of the democratic alliance? "You're making me?" would be said by the protagonist of the band of "The Married Thousands". I'm not saying it to the denomination so I won't get any misunderstandings. But what has not been fun is the constant intention, the zeal of the two parties that have ruled over the last decades for discipline, repression better, youth and especially neo-liberal questioning, which is obviously not favoured by the existence of university asylum. That is why the relevant provisions are so dissatisfied with them. Youth, however, means expectation and claim, this generation will live better than the previous one, and that means questioning the current situation and neo-liberal questioning very often reaches the limits of infraction - otherwise what question would it be? - and a few, a few, times over. As much as that happens on the streets and on the stadiums, as we all know, and much less on the universities, these parasiology has been targeted. Why, is that so? However, the bet on every society is not to suppress the neo-liberal dispute, dismantling the forces of order and charging half the Criminal Code to protagonists and simply unfortunate ones, even overcoming charges, so that everything can be turned into a felony. I cannot forget the expression of rejoicing to the person of the rapporteur of the New Democracy when he assured that theft of a mobile phone is also considered a felony, which is why the asylum is being destroyed, when two people are committed together, because these two are regarded as a criminal organisation. He's right. A criminal organization was considered a few years ago to be five minors who, together, downloaded a jam. However, the restoration of this distortion of legislation, which results in Greece having a three-digit number of criminal organisations, while in Italy it is only a twenty - and the trial of the format with the clearest features of a criminal organisation that we can imagine, which is dragged two years and does not say to end - is the work of another ministry, which we hope will be dealt with soon, with the protection of university asylum and the whole of society. The bet, therefore, for a democratic society is to inspire young people, who challenge, trust in the possibilities of developing society itself, to integrate this youth into democratic processes. It is what you will never manage, ladies and gentlemen of Officerial Response: inspire youth and act for society. Only to disable it can you, by feeding her a degree, career, power and, because these are not enough for everyone, strip the willing ones with all kinds of real or simply promised favors, thanks to the right "cons" that they will acquire and will certainly be more effective if they are developed through a well-paid postgraduate degree. The rest of you offer some excursions to Mykonos and the well-known, acquainted ethos and styles, hoping to maintain your influence on a critical mass. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. This influence reduces in the long term the current legislation, which gives rise to democracy and justice. That is why it gains acceptance of the stakeholders, instead of the glorious reactions raised by the efforts of the previous governments to discipline and trade in higher education institutions. This influence is reduced by the upgraded participation of students and students in decision-making, subject to their immediate presence, thus excluding various technical manipulations, which could mislead the expression of their will. For these reasons, today's legislation brings about the month - not the disagreement - of the parties that have been ruling over the last few decades, which I find self-evident, because there is not just a difference of opinion, but rather the opposition of social interests that we represent both sides. It also brings about the threat of their abolition at first opportunity, except that this opportunity must be given by the Greek people in their vote in 2019. And that's not self-evident at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u564	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Nicos Thibeau has the floor, and then Mr Mumulides next. Here, Mr. Thebes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u565	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on this draft law on higher education simply answers to every Greek citizen the serious questions he raises about higher education in our country. What are these questions raised by the world, in which the bill comes to give clear answers? Why should the Greek family pay tens of thousands of euros to study its children? Why should the rich and poor not have equal opportunities in higher education? Why should he pay expensive postgraduate tuition fees in several departments, especially in Economics? Why does a new scientist have to be an ordinan of the professor so he can have some chance of developing? Why would the selfish one lead to mismanagement, arbitraryness and strife several times? Why do we have family-running phenomena at the EIO, TEI? These are the questions of society. So basically, the bill comes to give and set academic rules at all levels of study. What the world is asking for and has to do with it, just to say, the New Democracy has it hidden - rather obvious - and it doesn't respond, it doesn't come up with any problems. In fact, he says, without confessing, "Let them be." Logic, because the current situation is her own creation. The notorious Diamantopoulou law is known to perceive the university as business, education as merchandise and students as customers. His results have been disastrous in these few years, although he would not have said so: total deregulation of universities, centralisation of administration, ideologicalization of higher education in a neoliberal direction, depreciation of the democratic character of the university. That is why it is so disturbing that neoliberal reflexes of today's Officer Reflex, which really gives a battle to keep her acquired. I do not want to talk particularly about postgraduate courses. There's been a lot of noise. I would like to say, however, that today all the conditions are given to ensure a high quality postgraduate with free access for students to several of them. They say we're kicking out students that way for postgraduate studies outside. Really, how many ICP notices were made in previous years? None! Today, in 2017 and 2018, a thousand LPA posts are being opened. I want to dwell on an issue that has not been discussed today. One - in my opinion - a very important issue that regulates the bill is the relationship between academic studies and professional rights. Today, ninety-five of the thirty-three-three-three sections of HEIs and TEIs do not have professional rights, that is, 40% of the departments. This is a lasting scandal, a gift to post-traditional private education. That's not why the Opposition says something unless it thinks it's right and does not confess it. Two words on the abolition of the registration of conduct in school checks and dismissals. One will say: “But in recent years the subject has been self-regulated, since only “the worldly” has entered the tabs.” That's not good enough, colleagues. It is therefore necessary to call the student's conduct to be abolished, because it is civil war inspiration, pluralism and anti-democratic culture, with a pure aim of punishment and social stigmatism. A democratically organized school must not only formally abolish the conduct, but abolish the darkness of its inspirations. I don't want to talk about asylum because everything has been heard. Mr Maniotis said this morning that he is saddened to see in the Polytechnics and S.H.I.E.L.E.L.E.L.L.D. I sympathize with him, and therefore restore the asylum, if we can escape the "plated, laundry" of the Diamantopoulou Act. I would like to refer to one last point in the evaluation. Ladies and gentlemen, we heard Mr Mitsotakis in the morning tearing his clothes on the subject of evaluation. Mr. Mitsotakis doesn't believe in evaluation. The evaluation has not been carried out for thirty-five years, because they do not want it, because they are outside their logic, because they believe in a customer system. Evaluation means institutions, it means sovereignty, and it does not believe in them. It has proved what the evaluation Mr. Mitsotakis believes in. They are the redundancies of the administration, they are the two and a half thousand redundancies without an assessment of teachers in one night. Mr. Mitsotakis believes in this assessment. So when Mr Mitsotakis talks about evaluation and gets fired and lying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u566	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Themistollis Mumulides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u567	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin my speech with one comment. Participating in the Standing Committee on Morphic Affairs as a member in the last two years I had a feeling, and many times I said it - I had also credited it to the behaviour of Mr Gavroglou, the current Minister, as President at the time of the Committee on Morphic Affairs - that at least in matters of education we had achieved a minimum of consensus. So one would expect today in such an important bill, which concerns education and, in particular, higher education, that the Qualified Opposition would come into parliamentary dialogue with responsibility, with proposals, particularly with memory and self-awareness, and wishing to contribute creatively to an area in need of change, reforms and vision. I heard today's speech of the Chief of Police, who spoke at noon. Now is the time before, but from all day long I have more to speak. Honestly, I was concerned about where parliamentary dialogue is going. I wonder if a party leader is entitled to put the parliamentary procedure on the day following his election in an extended pre-election period, so in a substantial hostage, trying to create a lasting sense of power gap in democratic governance in the country, because Mr Mitsotakis does this systematically. We have all heard Mr Mitsotakis at the beginning of his speech committing - in his always pro-electional style - that, if he ever becomes a government, he will abolish this bill. Evidently the Chief of Officerial Response believes he's important and after that, nothing worthwhile will come. That's too bad! The Chief of Officerial Response, in the well-known protracted mood, reiterated his well-known designations, without prejudice to any sense of effective parliamentary dialogue. We have heard many times the words 'true', 'fakes', 'fakes', or 'keywords', with which the Accuracy is chosen to move. He has already discovered another, which we are increasingly listening to in this Chamber, the word 'dream'. Only the New Democracy discovered the word in a few decades' time. Today's speech by Mr Mitsotakis was a monument of populism, the one who so despised, a monument of intimidation, irony, decline and retardation. Ladies and gentlemen, the right to education, the right to education is an obligation of the state and the right of every citizen. This defends this bill. He's trying to overcome cumulative distortions, such as customer relations and synergy cultures within universities. It believes and strengthens the public character of higher education. This is our basic difference from the philosophy governing the Civic Opposition to Education. But our faith does not prevent us from linking education to the labour market and the development prospects of each region and as a consequence of the development of the country. Because time is limited now and the time before yesterday, I will stand on three points of the bill. I think that the foundation of the Regional Academic Councils is an innovation. It is the institution of the Regional Academic Councils entrusted with the planning of regional universities. I think it is an innovative institution, an institution that will substantially help the development of universities, which have been created on the ground in an anarchy, without sustainability studies, and so today we are following this whole problem. The Regional Academic Councils connect the universities to local communities. Thus, each region has the possibility of creating its own model of coexistence between universities and local communities. It is a new structure that creates conditions for the development, sustainability and provision of high-level studies. As far as postgraduate diplomas, as we all know, in some cases they could also be described as a huge industry, which young people invest in family resources and dreams in the altar of an uncertain future. Of course, some residents of the public housing are, by offering knowledge of a savage remuneration, i.e. a public asset which, as a government and as a political body, we believe should be provided free of charge. In this bill no student is excluded from postgraduate programmes for economic reasons. I am going through a number of issues because, unfortunately, the last people are also wronged. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I need two minutes, Mr. President. I consider research and innovation grants to be a very important story, but I consider it a major step to upgrade the ESDP by creating two-year structures in higher education institutions, where professional certificates of university standards will be provided, recognised pan-Europeanally. In other words, ESDP students now have a view of a tertiary degree, which is crucial for their professional career. Ladies and gentlemen, education is a matter of national importance. It is a meeting point of the country's democratic forces and we must exhaust all margins of dialogue in order to gain a maximum degree of consensus. I would say that it is a legitimate field of fertile controversy of proposals and ideas and no field of sterile opposition, and with these thoughts I call on you to pass this bill. At this point I want to make a distinction from this bill. There is the general amendment of the Ministry of Culture 1186 which calls for the abolition of the two-morrow limit for the members of the board of directors of the Acropolis Museum. I personally disagree on this amendment, mainly for reasons of principle. It is something that we have fought for for many years as a political body. It's something that I personally can't defend. I know that it is difficult many times to legislate, because there are personalities, important people who may be wronged or excluded in all this legal framework, but I think we should legislate on the rule rather than on the exceptions. I think we should legislate on renewal. We must create conditions for the development and promotion of new people. This is an obligation of a modern left-wing government. In my opinion, therefore, there is no real reason to change the legislative framework. On the other hand, I consider it important to adopt policies throughout the public area that contribute to the creation of another, worthwhile, fair and constantly renewed staffing of the administrative boards of all the supervised bodies of the Ministry and of the wider public sector. I think there's a bad start. If we pass through the two terms to a third party, no young man in his course will be able to distinguish, just or manifest himself. I believe that this is another form of a year and I am therefore personally different from this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u568	Thank you. My colleague, Mr. Theodore Dritsas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u569	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, at least the Independent MEP, Mr Theocharis, who spoke just now, is absolutely consistent. When it says'self-employed', it means self-employed, it has no card approaches, such as the New Democracy and the Democratic Partnership. Of course, in this extreme aristocratic approach, however consistent, she lacks something that Mr Theocharis has not approached, state funding. That's where he didn't say anything. If he believes that all higher education can be placed on the market, let him claim it, but in any case, it can be consistent up to the end. I was very pleased to hear from Mr Javarra, who also referred to and referred to Derida, if I listened well to a university of knowledge and research, without conditions and without limits. That's a good idea.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u570	Very good.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u571	However, I think, Mr Javarra, that a few decades ago the Greek state, the Greek society and the Greek Parliament were already ahead of Derida, when in Article 16 of the Constitution he imprinted all this thought with the phrase: "Art and science, research and teaching are free. Their development and promotion is an obligation of the State.’
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u572	Absolutely right. '75 this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u573	This article, Article 16, has said many other things, which still apply, even though too many are trying to do so in the past, not nostalgic, as Mr Barriots said, but in the past, to unclaimed. That's what he can do. And when an entire, organized political system and an economic system and an educational system tried to abolish it and did not succeed. There the reflectors of this health of the Greek educational world appeared, because this article also says that education is a basic task of the state. It also says that all Greeks have the right to free education, at all its levels, at state education. It also says that higher education is provided exclusively by institutions which are legal entities governed by public law with full self-government. This is the self-help. It says that these institutions are under the supervision of the State and have the right to be economically supported by it and operate in accordance with the laws relating to their agencies. And the teachers, says paragraph 6, of higher education institutions are public officials. Let's see how much basis all these overtime discussions have on one or the other, not meaning that teachers should not receive ten times as much wages. Of course, but that's another matter. I would like to say, therefore, that Article 16 and the Greek Constitution are not in the era of ghosts, which are saying today, "The NEWs" is not the backing in the future, which some insinuate. On the other hand, it is a solid basis, through the global crisis and the educational system - for this is the case - and culture and the economy. Against this crisis, the new trends that are growing through the failure of neoliberalism, which has led to new inequalities and new poverty and new misery and threaten to create new wars globally. A new Greece is being born through this challenge over the last 20 years, thirty-three years and postmodernism, from which New Democracy, but the PASOK and the Democratic Left, well!... Is it happen, of course, that this entire area of social democracy has collapsed throughout Europe and only withstand voices through this tradition like Corbin? Is it random? So that is the issue that is trying to bring a bill, which yes, has virtues, but he really lacks something very important. It is not a product of social claims and education movements, as in other times. Can Papanoutsos and the Center Association make the educational reform in 1964, the PASOK did the educational reform in 1982, but these have illustrated huge cultural, educational, social and societal movements, the left of which was the soul for the "principal in education" and for all subsequent claims. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. That is why the Left can today, even if it is not a society that is vigilant to open up new paths of democracy, progress and spiritual development, at least standing at critical times, precisely on the argument that education, education, education and education, yes, ladies and gentlemen, as Euclid Tsakalotos said, is self-evident. From there on, when this is not only accepted, but guaranteed, any discussion can begin. I will conclude with two examples of small scale, but I think that is indicative. I am aware of one industry in Greece - not recently, from the outset - which each one makes an agreement with a department at the National Technical University, transparently and with the whole department and not with a teacher, and offers orders to examine material resistance to certain issues, on the basis of specifications and the Polytechnics University responds. There is a reward, not for one, but for the department and with transparency, with evidence, not "black" and this is indeed an application that science and research serve production. On the other hand, I have lived on my professional path as a trader in the pharmacy in which I was working, the promotion, the promotion of products, not medicines, but mainly food supplements, health products, skin, hair, cosmetics, etc., with studies by university - not departments - teachers to accompany the promotion. No one needed special knowledge to judge how cheap they were, apart from being by definition unreasonable, these university studies. This is a market service, not production. That's a huge difference. So, do we want universities of self-worth, knowledge, research, education and at the same time not in the air, but in conjunction with the needs of the productive economy? Yeah, we can talk about this, and I think our government and the Ministry of Education and this bill, that's what he's trying to figure out.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u574	Complete, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u575	Let the rest remain for a future that will never come, I hope, because it will be a future disastrous, the future of the definitive domination of neoliberalism.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u576	Minister Constantine Zouraris has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u577	Mr President, my respects. Colleagues and colleagues, at once, because the times of the Rules of Procedure have not been so great and have cut them a little. The first thing I have to do with the draft law. Odessa, fourteen countries of the former Soviet Union, Brussels, Albania and Georgia with the State Secretarys, with the meetings, visits. '...receive freedom and language.' These are my issues there. It's going well. For those colleagues, Savva and Kelles who have asked for some information on the Munich problem - and I have not done so, but we need precisely the echo and precisely the democratic function that characterizes this co-government - Mrs Michailidou and the legal counsellor of Kaphyras in one and a half days managed to cut off about EUR 300,000 over the next fourteen months with a merger of schools with full competence. From this point of view, this mess has existed for years in Munich. The money is comfortable with you guys, huh? You threw it like that. We had 63,000 a month, colleague, at one. We took it to 40,000 for the eight months and the other seven at 35,000 in a day and a half. Swimming pool I found for school. Maybe because I told the Belgians the numbers with the Belgians, and I burned up the Minister, who, in passing, almost competed in beauty with you! So we have a pool, because they didn't have the pool kids and a rooftop at a central point. I knew they had five pools around schools in Brussels. The Belgians, i.e. that of the boobyphones, have also given them to us. That's good out there, 'cause it's all out there. I'm not in. The other one? What kind of loose ends? It's a Kyrgyzian. Because we have Year Kazantzakis, we went with the President of the Republic the other day in Krassi and gave prizes to children. A Kyrgyzstan like cold water, which is a professor and a companion along with a Uzbeko, comes and tells me at a break at 19.00: "PAOK wins, not you who give demeccles to forgive your sinners." So we had that. One thing which was a little sensitive - I said it to the Committee on Morphics, of course, not to say it again - is the two cases under Article 73, in which the Minister may derogate. They are the ones to which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is involved and must be involved. You can learn them. So I come to a quasi-insurance staff, because I have recently embodied myself in particular with the Chief of the Major Minority Mitsotakis saying concerning both a reproach, apart from Katrugalos - he did not like anything from Katrugalos, etc. - additionally for Zurari's education. "They have built the true heavens and have salvaged the foundations of the earth"! If he doesn't like Zurari's education, what discipline does he like? The only possible education for Greek children is the education of Zourari, the one governing the whole. Of course it's training here, it's not education. In any case, what is education? 'Free receive, free donors'. That's our education. Therefore, ‘and each one is divided into needs’. This is education, and not, of course, the sardanal coopers who put them in the pocket of 100%, 12 000 euros and more. 'Free receive, free donors'. Therefore - to finish because I am going to get kicked out - this is the programme that governs all this training legislation today. I'll see you in September. God has it. In any case, I have to tell you the three words. Let me give them to you, because it's the year Kazantzakis. Liberal education, of course, atonement of blasphemy, is the sacred name of freedom to be with the stubborn. One is the rotten skeleton liberal hope. Kazantzakis. Soap sketch. He's got rotten legs. The other one is Mitsotakis' speech. Harbal mouth. The third is that I'm going to bull him again if he dares to say he doesn't like Zurari's education.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u578	Thank you, Minister. Mr Theocharopoulos has the floor. After Mr. Theocharopoulos, Mr. Varvitsiotis, Mr. Xydakis and Mr. Constantineas will speak and we will close.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u579	It is important that the rapporteurs, Mr Emmanoulidis...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u580	He's Mr. Germenis, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u581	You're right. Mr. Theocharopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u582	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first I would like to stress once again - we have said so before, you have no responsibility, Mr President - the unacceptable procedure for ministers who have nothing to do with the bill or the amendments and for them to be placed on the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u583	Is that bad?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u584	I'm saying that because he's out of order. On the contrary, I see the SYRIZA Members often complain when things are done within the Rules of Procedure, for example, the secondaryities of the parliamentary representatives who are respondents just to the ministers and to what they are going to say. In this context, therefore, I was very impressed by the three ministers, Mr Tsakalotos, Mr Spirtzis and Mr Vernardakis, who came and spoke and actually revealed the context, how they thought about education. Mr. Tsakalotos on the issue of the election of dean and anti-rectors said attributes: 'Can you win elections and do what you want with the single vote? Is that your logic?' I imagine that it does not have the same logic for the government, for the parliamentary elections. It does not have the same logic for other electoral procedures, unless it said so as self-criticism. There, however, where Mr Tsakalotos really impressed us was when he mentioned characteristics in the occupations and said: 'Is the occupations illegal?' Really? So if it's taken over for a week at the Treasury, will it deal with exactly the same argument? He will come here and say, "Is the occupations illegal?"? Is that a left-wing concept?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u585	Yeah. Who is she, then?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u586	Occupation is illegal, sir. Of course, when they take possession for a week in the Ministry of Finance, when they try to take possession for a week in the House, it is an illegal act of occupation. Let's talk clearly. At the same time, he said that the university is not just about preparing for the labour market. That's right, it's not just about preparing for the labour market. It's about it, though. All levels of education are to give theoretical education and to make people better, as well as to prepare for the labour market. The question is that in our country at the moment, and the labour market and education are not in such a situation that the unemployment issue can actually be resolved. This should also help the educational system. Mr. Spirtz objected to the opposition once again and referred to the fact that he had previously established parts without planning. Are these mistakes made? It's been too many times. I'm the first to tell you. The point is that while he said that and came to talk about this bill, and today - I said it in my prototype, and I would like a comment here at the end - we currently have the establishment of a Polytechnic School at the University of the Aegean, based in Samos and partition of the Department of Mathematics of Samos in two separate departments. Is this in a more general design that we don't see, which we don't know about? Just the same thing, don't you do in this bill Mr. Spirji came in and told us these things? Not to mention the debate between Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Mitsotakis, in which Mr. Tsipras blamed for the communication tactics of Mr. Mitsotakis, because he was going up in the haystack and spoke to farmers. Mr. Tsipras, on the other hand, was on the trains. Which populism should I choose here from both of us? In essence, what is this debate on such an important issue? Finally, Mr Paradoxopoulos, I was expecting a comment from you on the asylum issue and on the Scientific Service of the House, which she also says that reflection can arise on the provision of effective protection against other crimes, particularly self-sufficient ones. It is noted that the distinction between crimes against life and crimes against physical integrity is difficult to diagnose. Therefore, because precisely because the issue of infringements is the problem and the tolerance to them, the Parliament's Scientific Service makes comments, labelling and reflection on this issue. Of you, therefore, who referred to this matter, I would expect such a position. Finally, Mr Baltas wondered what our position on postgraduate studies is. Mr Gavroglou, I think we had reached an agreement this morning on this issue and Mr Baltas probably did not understand. So let's say it once again: undergraduate without tuition. It is also a matter of foreign language. We say yes to foreign-language departments without the mediation of the international university. In the postgraduate studies, what we say and say again, it is, of course, possible for teachers to be provided by law and for them to be taught. Of course we should find the low income categories and those which need criteria to be given grants. Where do we disagree on this issue, for example? I don't understand. Mr Baltas probably did not understand the placement of the Democratic Association that is clear to postgraduate graduates: the possibility of tuition fees and at the same time, where there are problems, exemptions and scholarships, should be allowed by law. In education, therefore, there is a need for national understanding. They don't need obsessed, they don't need ideologies. In this context we will have to move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u587	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u588	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u589	Here, Mr. Paraskevi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u590	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll be very brief. I would like to say that we always share thoughts, but I would not agree with the thoughts of the Legal Committee of the House. Because I think there is a particular chapter in the Criminal Code that includes crimes against life and it is clear what these are. Furthermore, the distinction of a crime and a felony is also clear, since it can only be done by reading the sentence. So I think there's no problem here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u591	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Emmanoulidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u592	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, in a previous position from this Step I pointed out that our differences with the Officerial Representation Party and with the satellite parties of the New Democracy, as they have evolved - I mean the Democratic Compact and the Potami - are not just policies. They're deeply cultural. Our cultural model focuses on man and his essential needs. You are committed to the hierarchy of the market, you have turned the individual into a trading unit, no matter what their real needs. The scope of this cultural divide is mainly education. For us education is the social tool that exploits it in a single objective: to create personalities with an awareness of the responsibility for the economic, political and social become. Through the educational process we aim to give the individual real education, which means to acquire all those traits that lead to the humanisation of his existence. Your vision, ladies and gentlemen of counter-population, is the education to become a social arena where, on the altar of economic feasibility, values and principles are sacrificed. The highest human value, dignity, is sacrificed. Because it is sacrificed here, when a group of universities reacts to postgraduate diplomas, as all these years doubled their wages, creating complications from professors "towards an extra income", as the Minister rightly pointed out. We don't become teachers to get rich. Other areas of the free market are more suitable for this purpose. The teacher has a mission to enrich students, students, society, Mr. Javara, improperly providing them with science, wisdom, social provision. Universities who have enriched themselves through financial practices were not recorded in the historical memory of education. On the contrary, we are all concerned with the spiritual stature and the social displacement of a Dimitris Maronite, a Manolis Andronikos, an Aristovouulou Manesi, these bright guides of a light academic course. Cultural abyss divides us, as every legislative initiative we take towards the oxygenation of democracy in the field of education causes you allergy and triggers your oligarchy reflexes. I am referring to the possibility with the bill for students to participate in representation in the institutions of the administration of the higher institutions, I am referring to ensuring the greatest possible representation in the higher institutions by means of the separate election of dean-anti-procedures and, finally, the participation of all the departments in the Senate. The mutilation of democracy, as we know, comes with the de facto exclusion of social groups from the election process of the supreme democratic right. The draft law is distinguished from regulation, both quantitatively and qualitatively, which highlights its manifest democratic nature, which you are wrestling against in a rabies manner. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll close with two brief points. It is regrettable - and I am referring to the PASOK colleagues - that they should be renounced in the most lucid period of their cultural hegemony, from 1982 to 1985, when I really felt a teacher in the ranks with an open horizon, because freedom had entered the ranks, and we breathed it, both teachers and students. It is regrettable that we have reached the view of the "Damma-Pulse" practice, which Mr Baltas quite rightly said was the outcome of this process. I'm coming to a second. I have heard many times that the two hundred fifty were the ones who voted. What can we do, colleagues?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u593	Two hundred fifty-five.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u594	Two hundred fifty-five. They once voted almost three hundred. What does that mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u595	Nothing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u596	We have a memory. Recently it was the events. So it's not just the quantitative criterion. Time is the one that highlights the mortality of a piece of legislation or its long-termity. When it is targeted to stand close to society and man, it has a long-term perspective.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u597	Yes, sir. Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u598	Mr President, in a minute or so I would like to say that I support the position of my colleague Theme Mumulides, because it is a question of beginning to close. Otherwise we pass on to equilibrium episcopal practices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u599	Thank you. Mr Varvitsiotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u600	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in closing this long debate I have found that SYRIZA has no idea how the views are shaping in the New Democracy. He has no idea about their history about how they're born, how they become dominant in society. The view of changing Article 16 and breaking the state monopoly by establishing non-profit, non-state universities was not a view that came from above, it was not a view that came from the leaderships. It was a point of view that came from the student movement. The SGC in 1998, led by Kostis Hadjidakis, expressed this view for the first time. Do you know what he's done? He managed to win the student elections for the first time. Since then, he has been constantly gaining the student elections, having a firm opinion that the state-suffering monopoly in education cannot function. This is the view which has now prevailed in society in all measurements of public opinion over the last thirty years and reached in 1998, ten years later, that the New Democracy adopts and restricts it - if you like - in its expression. When we brought it in 2008 as a proposal for revision, PASOK abstained from the debate. None of the parties on the left voted for it, of course. Giorgos Papandreou himself at the time, blackmailing from the faculty - who then came and became part of SYRIZA and took advantage of it and supported you all of this - said no to what he had said and while he had been completely opposed during the debate in the Commission on the Revision of the Constitution. For then the PASOK by Theodore Pangalou was in favour of the revision of Article 16. The fact that the IGC has been winning the student elections thirty years, flagged by the abolition and amendment of Article 16 and the abolition of asylum in respect of the criminal activities carried out in universities, must concern you. Unfortunately, you didn't have a dialogue. You didn't have any dialogue about your bill. Because if you'd had a dialogue, if you'd respected the institutions and institutions that represent the university, you'd know that everyone is against you. You haven't found allies. Did you find in their collectives? Where did you find them? The assholes? Who have you really found support for your changes? If we did not change with Marietta Giannakou the asylum law to such a large extent, it was precisely because the occupation of universities from all of these elements - to which you are giving asylum today - was not the greatest political consensus to be a mature change. It became mature when Diamantopoulou and then the student youth of the SAD fully supported it and we did not have the phenomena of occupation. Was she a success? Oh, no. It should have been even more effective. The student should be protected, the professor should be protected, we should not have the pre-collectivity phenomena that we have all seen on our TVs, we should not have the phenomena of the "built-up" professors, public permeability or the threat of their lives. You who, today, legislate on electronic auctions, abolish electronic voting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u601	We're not pulling them out. Why are you lying?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u602	I really observe this whole debate and have not heard a step forward. What's the step forward that you're taking? Why are you blaming us? You are accusing us of having a student transaction and of having staff coming from our student youth. We abolished that one. You bring her back. You reinstate the transaction through student control in the university's decisions on its operation and not on the issues that concern them. Because that's what we believed, we believe, and we'll believe. I come from the Greek University and from the SGP, as many of my colleagues do. We've fought dignity at the university. What we cannot do today is free dialogue at university, we have tried to safeguard it, and today you are trespassing on it. I have two issues to deal with, Mr President. The first concerns the vote by the Independent Greeks in this bill. They have not even read their government programme, which speaks of maximising the autonomy of universities - that is, not ministerial decisions, not ministerial veto that you are currently legislating - and of abolishing Article 16 and opening up higher education. I heard Mr. Papachristopoulos here telling us he's against. I'm filing it, so he knows at least which program he's down with, which flag he's down, unless he's on such a flag of convenience. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[At this point the Member, Mr Miltiadis Varvitsiotis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I'm coming to second. You're telling us that you safeguard the rights of engineers from the TEIs. Mr. Spirtzis is here, too. He had the nerve to come and talk. Mr. Spirjis wasn't president of the TEI? It has always belonged to the SYRIZA or the Left. Before that was Mr. Alavanos, your Prime Minister's brother. All these excluded had the graduates of the TEIs from the TEI register. They had not been given the right to receive a registration number at the TEI. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr. Stasinos came, the new president, the new administration, which does not come from the left class, and finally opened the door of the Chamber of Technical Chamber to the graduates of the TEI to take the first major step towards their professional rights. I also present to you the relevant publication of the 'SGEI' which refers to this issue a month ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u603	Mr. Comrade, please, you'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u604	I shall conclude, Mr President, with one amendment, for which there has been no discussion, but it is Mr Muszala's amendment. It proves with what it does how premature, incomplete, and in no way functional it was the establishment of the Ministry of Migration Policy. He's trying to abolish any concepts of law in public procurement, precisely because he hasn't succeeded nine months after the Ministry was created to build an Economic Directorate at the Ministry. With the exception of the compensation for the residents of the Kilkis City of Paionia - which has been afflicted by the people - of Imeni, namely, who come after two years to compensate them, I believe that this whole amendment is a confession of failure in the organization of the Ministry of Migration Policy and we are in no way supporting it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u605	Mr President, please, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u606	Minister, do you want the floor for a legal improvement?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u607	I'll answer later. I'll have a second, 'cause things are packed up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u608	You've got deuterology. But don't answer Mr. Varvitsiotis now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u609	No, I'm not answering now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u610	You're gonna make a legal improvement, okay? Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u611	Paragraph 2 of Article 92 of the draft law in Amendment No 1197 and special number 138 are deleted and paragraph 3 is renumbered paragraph 2. I'm presenting it for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u612	Mr. Xydakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u613	Thank you, Mr President. On the occasion of the debate on a bill trying to regulate a few things in the field of public education, a very interesting political debate has emerged. It was interesting from the point of view that, while before us are the big problems of the country, as it emerged from the bankruptcy of 2009-2010 and as we still see them structurally and remaining to be concerned with society and the younger generations, it is recognised, at least in the words, that public education is a tool for the upgrading of democracy and not its use of labour, but as a weapon to restore people's faith in democracy. As Mr. Nikos Philis foretold, the citizens' confidence rises, at a time when their confidence is shaken both towards democracy and to the political system, both to the civilian staff and to us MPs, the elected. The people are sending us here, but the people seem to be not trusting us. While we have before us all these major social injuries to unemployment, to migratory outputs, to ageing populations, to defeat and to fatalism, to a large part of the population that has been severely affected by the crisis, we cannot ensure a few minimums to look towards the future. Here, of course, the responsibilities are all of us. I'm not taking out either the government or our party. But I am very impressed by passion, empathy, enthusiasm and hostility on the part of the Antipopulation, primarily the Officer, but also the Elassinos. Especially in the case of the New Democracy, the reason that has been growing lately is a cause of reactionary, not liberal at all, a reason that constantly falls under the traps - or attracts them - of the make news, of the trolls, of the trumpets, follows the tremors of vatraxi.com and each plaque in social media and makes them politically and at the same time there is a match with the word of the oligarchs and the interests of the oligarchs. Sometimes we reach post-fascist speech shades. Mr Vorides, the other day, in the Chamber of Parliament, has twice ruled out the right to freedom of the left, thus resorting to a pre-emptive speech and betraying his lack of faith in democracy. Not even a part of the New Democracy is identified with the ideals of the French Revolution, with the ideals of democracy in modern times. Even the mild paternalism of Mrs Kerameos and Mr Hatzidakis talking about the Left, saying that it is not the left that attacks democracy and that there is a left good, for example the Left of Leonidas Kyrkos, was superficial, in my opinion. They had to get them back. All far right-wing, royal, black souls that haunt right-wing are excluded from every field of convergence, every field of democratic dialogue, every field of democratic conflict, which is conflict but under rules. The cries are growing for coupees in the government, for "muddlers", for crooks, for rapists of democracy. They would only be vile - and they certainly wake up to the democratic feeling of the citizens - if it were not dangerous for the perverts that today's right-wing, today's Dedicated Opposition, but also because they exacerbate the distrust of citizens and shake their faith in democracy. When the institutional guarantor of democracy, which is the Chief of Officerial Representation or the Party of Officerial Representation, is expressed in such violent ways, with violent expressions to the Prime Minister or Government, no confidence and no faith in democracy is cultivated that can solve its problems, move forward and make society out of the crisis. I would like to say that even this controversy on the body of public education is a political battle. It is a battle in which the right-wing party, the conservative party, has abandoned any philosophical event - which had shown it at other times - and has engaged in a neoliberal rumour of beliefs and religion. In fact, there is a return to power, a return to a political practice characterised by parasiticism, the state-owned domestic system, clientele and nepotism. What Mr Stathakis presented yesterday about nepotism in LARCO, with soyias of former ministers and current MPs in a broken company, which could provide jobs and wealth throughout the national economy, was indicative. I have to say that for the Democratic Independence I have to say that it is now a sad complement to the Right. The only thing that can't be hidden is this rabies appetite if they get a ministry to some future government. I could parallel it with the deaf ears of the Association of Centres in 1981, which had not taken over the storm of the then PASOK, of the then Andreas Papandreou, who eventually incorporated them all, those who had no graphics left. As Members, for the amendment tabled by the Minister for Culture on the Acropolis Museum, as pointed out by my colleague Mr Mumulides, I would like to say that it would be a good thing if the Minister were to see it again carefully. The Acropolis Museum does not suffer from an overseer appointment, becoming twelve or sixteen years. However, since 2008, which has emerged from the founding law as well since 2009, appointed administration, until 2017, that is, for eight years, the Agency has not been implemented. Neither the Director-General has been established by notice and competition nor the four directorates-general. It's been eight years without an organization. Why have these persons on the board for eight years not implemented the agency? They didn't make him work, they didn't put him forward, and it's so valuable. We can see it again. There are indeed people who deserve more than that, but let us see if the founding law has worked before we change it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u614	Thank you. Mr Germenis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u615	Two things you've done since the day you took over the country's rulership. Either you vote for the troika's Memorandum of Understanding, which is supposed to go against the so-called Left that you represent, or you will bring bills covering your idealism, like this one today. At the same time, in order to find them and to have them well with your other self, you are organizing camps by calling your ideological friends from popular paradises, type Venezuela. I do not know, of course, whether, in the respective parliament of Madour, the 'Ruvikon' type appeared, how it would treat them with the status of Madour. The most sensible thing was to kick them out or put them in a dungeon. Now we're going to the bill, as far as children with disabilities are concerned. It is an issue that needs to be addressed with particular sensitivity. But do you, because you really care or mention such a sensitive subject just for impression, that you are supposed to be interested in these children? For example, it is not possible to deal only with private schools, when the public sector is really unrealistic about the needs of these children. Public schools still do not have the appropriate infrastructure, neither have elevators nor ramps nor spaces specially designed for such cases. Most universities too are inappropriate to accept disabled students. Let us say this example. When a child goes to a public school and bad luck he has an accident in his life and stays with kinetic problems. What are you doing then? It is doomed, since there is no welfare state or education capable of bringing the burden of such cases to bear. It has not succeeded in a so-called serious Western-style state having in every city, at least, an appropriately manned public school, precisely for disabled people. It is disgraceful that here we are legislating and you so-called cultured people, who care about human rights, should not immediately proceed to such structures. But, yeah, I forgot. You prefer to fly millions for feeding and living thousands of illegal immigrants and not caring for Greeks. Also, it is not possible to balance all forms of disability. A child with severe autism has a clearly greater and special needs than a child with dyslexia or a mild form of Asperger Syndrome, which, while supporting, could exist in a normal class. You have a levelling-off trend that you are transferring to all areas of your governance. You have been through a new arrangement with which you will no longer give the parents money to go for reason with their children in trouble. Didn't your sensitivity get caught there? Didn't you care about parents who can't pay even 400 euros a month for a child with autism or need for reason and treatment? You are bringing an important piece of legislation on education together with unnecessary amendments. This alone reduces the seriousness of the bill. You cannot see the grim reality that the highest level of education has reached you, for which you also have a large part of responsibility, since the Right has allowed you to roam freely and water with your poison young people with rotten, empty ideologies and all you care about is your ideologies. In universities, we have severe cases of lawlessness. In ASEAN cigarette smuggling is made uncovered in the yard, while complaints to other university institutions for drug trafficking, rape, trabourism, molds and stench are not missing. In every civilised state universities are the ornaments of the country and each state is proud of them. In Greece, however, they have become icons of shame. The Greek universities are downgraded in international ranking and in no case constitute a polo attraction for foreign students. Fortunately, there is still the Greek demonium and there are still cases of students taking us into international scientific competitions. Parents are deprived of paying their children's tutorials for their admission to higher education and end up paying extra six-monthly rental homes due to the recruitment of well-known troubled data. What free education are we talking about when children are forced to go from primary school to school, since education is downgraded in schools? They do classrooms for exams in high school and high school, schools to go to college, schools to learn one or two foreign languages, while they still don't know Greek! It seems that in this Chamber you live in another world or very simply you like this whole mess and the lawlessness that dominate the Greek universities. It does not explain otherwise, when, instead of looking at the main issues that arouses the universities, your main concern seems to be whether the Minister will have full jurisdiction in the boards of universities, do not escape you any masters who will not convene with your own views, do not refer to Kolokotronis and affect your alleged Greek-Turkish relations. Instead of strengthening classical education in relation to the ancient Greek magnificence, in order for there to be an ad hoc realization of teachers, such as, for example, for the Peloponnesian War, for Thucydides, the father of the school of realism, instead of visiting Milos, you wish to remove from the collective memory the teachings of ancient classical Greeks. But that does not mean that it is done abroad. You could support the Greek economy by putting tuition fees on foreign students or getting funds from the European Union for sponsoring scholarships to European citizens to study in Greece. Unfortunately, however, your opposition to classical education, which is like a hatred of Greek identity, does not let you open the way to reforms, which will also bring revenues to the Greek people, but will raise the level of education.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u616	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u617	I'm closing up on a proposition. The vote of the bill for us, the nationalists, is a one-way street. We remain faithful to the fragrance of the Greek education of Pericles Giannopoulou, Ioannis Sykoutris, Kostis Palamas, Aristotle Valaoritis and Ioannis Dragoumis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u618	Thank you. Mr. Constantine, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u619	Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin my speech with a common view, which we all agree with in this Chamber. As guardians of the democratic culture, we cannot use education as a shield. After all, the concepts of democracy and education are so closely linked, one being a prerequisite for the other. So building a firm educational system is our obligation and an inalienable right of the citizens who have brought us in here. In the last two and a half years, and after exhausting consultations with the members of the academic community and the stakeholders, we have now come to vote on the draft law that severely restricts the conversion of the education provided to a marketable species. We cannot prioritise access to higher levels of education according to the purchasing power of everyone. The law of deregulation, namely the Diamantopoulou Act, aimed at collecting from within the public character of the institutions. Despite the requirement of Article 16 of the Constitution, it was aimed at the University of the speculative organization, creating market mechanisms within the university community with paper designs that dissolved budgets and destroyed sections - jewelry for micro-political interests. An example of such treatment is the Department of Accounting in Messinia, which has not been able to open well and some local interests have launched it for extinction, indifferent to the hundreds of thousands of euros of public money spent on its creation by Greek taxpayers. Fortunately, this government has put an end to these fraudulent methods and this year's section has been reopening. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry's bill is in the opposite direction that you systematically pursue. It opposes the conversion of universities into enterprises for education, to another service whose costs will be regulated by the market - as is usually said in all bills - and which will be borne by potential customers, that is, our children. The right to education cannot be linked to how heavy each Greek citizen's pocket is. Knowledge was and will remain socially good and we do stand firm in the face of the logic of the few and the chosen ones, your own excellent ones. There are no your children and children on such an important issue. The right to education is for everyone. Besides, you can't afford this right as a state when the strengths of the middle and below economic strata are tested. The present government has strengthened young scientists and HEIs with scholarships and sponsorships of research programmes to an unprecedented degree compared to the data of the last decade. In order to combat the uptake of minds, as you say, "here are 325 million euros" programmes. The EUR 125 million is for the NSRF and EUR 200 million for the Hellenic Institute for Research and Innovation, which you have forgotten for ever. Hemorrhaging must be stopped. We are not afraid of challenges, and that is another bet for us. Our universities are currently characterized by a high level of knowledge and research. Our concern is to strengthen, improve and fulfil their academic and social role. This presupposes democracy in the administration, teaching, research and participation of all of us. Because this is the entire hierarchy of the Ministry of Education, presently the Minister and the chosen State Secretarys, I would like to say that our difference with the Qualified Opposition is that a good cannot take us all our lives. I was told by a teacher of mine, my dear Mr. Zurari, since you gave me the pass. He said to me: "Everything can get us except for one thing: knowledge." We are going to give it the knowledge, but without money, as the honourable Members of the Commit tee on Disarmament want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u620	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u621	How many more are there to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u622	Mr Ursouzidis is the last speaker. It has been asked by the Minister to speak, you have seconds and we will be closed. Here, Mr. Ursouzidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u623	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have asked for the floor today in order to support an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u624	First the Minister will listen to us and then close.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u625	That's the practice. It's just that the Minister's insistently asked the Chair if he could speak now. All right, let my colleague finish and we'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u626	Do I have the floor, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u627	Yes, continue, Mr. Ursuzidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u628	I repeat, therefore, that I have asked for the floor to refer to an amendment concerning Greek farmers, and to enable them to finally become lawful in their activity in relation to the land workers who are employed. But while I listened to the debate today, I had to take a clear stand. The question of education is about the sacred obligation of the state to provide the necessary knowledge for free, so that the young Greeks have this supply for the rest of their lives. It concerns the cultivation of people's personality, so that they can live in a fairer society, a society favoured by people who can function in a way that is not an obstacle to the development of the ideas and activities, in the context of the functioning of this society, in which we all hope, we all aim at at least. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] There are many issues to be mentioned. I will focus only on the issue of the production of those people, through education, which is intended to function democratically and freely. But can there be a democracy without freedom? We must ensure it where we can. Thus, there is the concept of asylum, which is about ensuring the free expression of people within the academic community. The more free, the better. After all, it is well known that the king of Fereus’s great nationalities say that anyone who freely thinks is well thinking. Nothing more, nothing less than that. Minister, I was in Crete the day before yesterday at the annual memorial of the people who lost their lives in traffic. It was with great satisfaction that parents who lost children who were there, but also children who lost parents, at the hearing that from the new year there will be the Circuit Course. I, too, felt so good, even though I was at a memorial to you - on this occasion - that you should, to the extent possible, start from the new season. I now come to the amendment. The amendment concerns a fair request from Greek farmers to be able to legitimise the relationship between post-harvest land workers coming from other states, so as to ensure their costs. In particular, for tree farmers over 60% of expenditure relates to workers' hands. Since 2012, with the increased cost of revocation, we have had the phenomenon of mostly Albanian visa workers coming home, who have actually done the job, but have not been able to say that. Consequently, and especially now, after the implementation of the ECA, we have as a percentage the net taxable income of insurance contributions. It is therefore very important. We have fought and tried too many people to pass this amendment by all the parties and I would ask that this amendment be accepted by this House without any exception. In conclusion, I would like to say that I have been provoked too many times by the Chief of Officerial Opposition in relation to the fact that we are voting and supporting a government, implying that we are doing it for the chair. By showing my good character once again, I will simply say that I can only accept it as an joke, in the sense that the people who were born and those and the whole of their sons on a chair and are maintained for more than half a century cannot address us who just two and a half years ago were called to deal with an unprecedented situation for our country as regards misery and misery that we found in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u629	Thank you, Mr. George Ursouzidis. The Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr. Kostas Gavroglou has the floor. How much time do you want, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u630	A 15-minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u631	You have the floor for 15 minutes, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u632	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u633	When are you going to respond to our vocabulary, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u634	Look, I am taking the floor now because I have listened to various things and various others to repeat things that I have said, I have made clear and I see that they have not been understood. If, then, they are understood and in your denture, you have the joy of being placed. What we were listening to was the continuation of "the asylum", again "the asylum", "the violation, the lawlessness", that it is all for us, "good to participate students, but no, brother, and as you have them", "the Minister's obsessed, overconcentrating" and so on. This pattern has indeed been repeated in ways that I do not think will go too far in the debate. We have to stress from the outset, although we have stressed it, that it has never been so systematic and exhaustive a debate with various actors. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the I went to three meetings and saw the Bureau many times. Meetings of Presidents, POSPE, UCLAF - TEI, Quaestors. For the first time we had a meeting with the hundred fifty Quaestors in three meetings. To all TEI and educational staff members, as well as to EDPS members, SPDs etc., an information note was sent to twenty thousand people, as well as the first version of the draft law. We've got too many reactions. What I want to challenge is to see the bill as it was prepared in early May and how it is now. Is it improved, yes or no? Because dialogue is not to listen and not to accept. We've improved it. We have not changed his philosophy, because that is our political choice. However, dialogue is whether or not it improves. So within the framework of the Single Research and Education Area, we bring the Regional Councils, the National Council for Education and Management of Human Resources, the two-year structures, the Training and Lifelong Learning Centres, the Council for Postgraduate Studies with all the Quaestors within the universities. I didn't hear you say that. We brought the free school, the five-year master, which I think someone wondered where it came from, as if it were coming from Mars. I challenge him. There is on the Internet the report by Mr. Tashios, who is the head of a team when he was Mr. Moutzouris Rector of the Polytechnic, who proves exactly what this equivalence is. Things have been said, too, to be careful when we talk about them. It's Parliament here. We're not journalists. What do I mean? He says: 'You have abolished electronic voting'. Look, having the candlestick is a sample that we don't back off to the douchebags. We have the ballot and we claim it. We're not blackmailing this kind of behavior. We have said that, if it is not done, the second time can be done by electronic means. As far as foreignlanguages are concerned, you should know that in Thrace there were huge problems with foreignlanguage and postgraduate. We say it must be done. That's why we're so strict. Of course, as you may not know, Mr Baltas had called for the prosecution investigation, which led here to the issues of Thrace, among others. I'm coming to Article 16. Too bad, Mr. Varvichiotis is gone. Mr Papandreou has not changed his mind about the reason Mr Varvitsiotis said. Athens was bloody every day because of the mobilizations. There was a political problem for the government at that time, because obsession with the change of Article 16 brought tens of thousands of people to the streets. That is why those who retreated and in any case calmed down the spirits.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u635	What about the ANLL program they're talking about for private universities?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u636	For the ANLL program you will ask ANLL. I happen to be at SYRIZA. Let us come to a political issue, which I said, I said it again, but it seems to me that it is not understood. We are constantly reminded that the current institutional framework was passed by two hundred and fifty-five Members and that this expresses an unprecedented parliamentary consensus, and so we must not change anything, since we have a law which has been passed by such a majority in the past. Yes, indeed, that's what the facts do. But let us look at the details of an issue that sounds reasonable, but that argument is absolutely problematic. We have four points. Firstly, let us begin with some of the findings found in every induction manual in the democratic city. Today in the House there is a new majority, a result of the will of the Greek people. One of the many commands that this majority has received is to correct the pathogens of the past, such as the fragmentation of public money for infrastructure in schools never made, the difficulties that delayed the opening of schools for so many decades, the deterioration of the social function of teachers, expressed by their dismissal and the violent closure of universities and TEI through the project "ATHENA". If the Greek people's will were to remain the same, they would not vote for us to have the responsibility for education, trying to do our best to improve the logistics infrastructure, with the infinitely few money we have, with the opening of schools on time, with the very clear recognition of the enormous importance of the social function of teachers, by the reintegration of the dismissals and the upgrading of the TEIs, which were so afflicted by the famous "ATHENA". Democracy therefore requires that we respect the people's will and not cancel by appealing to the majority of the past. Otherwise democracy, instead of being a factor of progress, would be a maintenance factor. But let us come to the second part of the famous 2011 majority. What were the areas introduced by the 2011 Act, also known as the ‘Damadopoulos Law’? Two were the wretched proposals of the law. The first was the establishment of the foundation councils, and the second was the abolition of the department as the academic unit cultivating a cognitive field and replacing it with programs of study, just as the most aggressive version of the so-called Bologna was imposed. These two were serious interventions, which would, in fact, radically change the character of universities and TEI. But you know what happened in the meantime? Do you know that? Obviously, but you're very diligent with it. Firstly, as far as the institutional councils are concerned, is there any party in the Chamber that continues to support them? There's the river. You support the continuity of institution councils.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u637	And the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u638	Is there a New Democracy too?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u639	With modifications.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u640	I'm glad, but it looks like you're ashamed to say it in the discussions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u641	Our Chief didn't hear him today?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u642	I heard the Chief, and you'll hear what I've heard from the Chief, too. Is there a party that officially says to stay the same as the councils, continue to interfere in the day-to-day operation of the HEIs, to designate the candidates? Or is there a request that they continue to exist because they proved so successful in fulfilling their other two missions that were attracting funding and shaping a strategic planning for each HEI? There was not even a single euro coming because of the Councils. While since we are a government, research and scholarships for doctors and research teams of new scientists with tens of millions of euros have been strengthened for the first time and no one doubts that. That's how money comes to public universities, not general and vague promises. Does anyone disagree with these findings? We respect the intention of many foreign scientists who came to help. Three years later, however, it seemed that these scientists were used for a political project of the then government, a project of leaping above the democratic function of universities and TEIs, a project that gradually wanted to transform a public university into a private one. These scientists were used by a ruthless political staff who wanted to carry out a project that, however, failed to complete. The bad news, however, is that it will now be even more difficult to convince many of our foreign colleagues to get involved in universities, since the experience of mocking, which had been suffered by the disastrous political project, was so disastrous and disastrous for them. I come to the third and pharmacopoeia that the insistence on maintaining, in 2011, the two hundred fifty-five seems to want to obscure. The Law of Diamantopoulou was passed at the end of August 2011. Do you know what happened in early August 2012, that is to say in less than a year? Well, then with a equally large number, minus eight MPs, the law of Mr. Arvanitopoulos, who overthrown the law of Diamantopoulou was passed. We didn't hear that. Mr. Friends mentioned it. One or two other colleagues have mentioned it which I do not remember. But that's what happened. Unbelievable, but perfectly true. The very same ones who voted for the first one in a few months voted to overthrow it. The Arvanitopoulos Law was forced to restore the departments as the main academic unit, replacing the previous law programs with something that is obviously better. And I ask, what exactly are you calling us to do? Shall we follow the two hundred fifty-five who voted for the Diamantopoulou Act or follow the two-five who, in a few months, voted for the law of Mr Arvanitopoulou, which abolished Mrs Diamantopoulou's law? Why don't you tell us these things? Why don't you tell people to know exactly what you mean by these majorities? You understand the extent of the confusion that exists. You understand the level of argument that you want to establish in public speech. You understand what desperation you are in and invoke a law that brought two changes, one of which was cancelled in historical terms and the other was voted out by you yourself who voted against exactly the opposite a few months earlier. This is all called a political deadlock, and when there is such a dead end, there are political forces that lose their temper, there are political forces that will become ruthless, which will use what is legitimate but, above all, unfair means they have to conserve, poison public speech, spread rumours and unleash faces. Such an attack by such means and so universal in her argument against the government and the Minister of Education we had not seen for too long. Ask yourself why. There are people who think that since we are being attacked by such a thing and by such means, we are getting along very well. I would like to diversify myself from such a sense. Anything that blurs public speech argues in favour of the enrichment of the few at the expense of the many, excludes the financially weaker universities and does not want the public university to be open to society and contribute to the productive reconstruction of the country, ultimately degrading democracy, contributes to the footballing of the political and social life of our country. The attacks, which were carried out in such a way that they were carried out in these months, and especially in the way they were carried out, aim to undermine democracy. I hope that the universities and the Greek people have seen that we have not been tempted to respond in the same way. We were told by over-concentrations, unrelated, introverts, that we do not know what is happening internationally, backwards, obsessive, blocked party friends and alliances. We have not responded with insults. It would be very easy to do. We have not responded at all because we are not going to respond to commentators, even to those who have lost their obligation to be decent. We don't care about the cheeks. We leave it to those who know that their arguments are at the moment and use insults. The fourth and final point is the unprecedented partnership of the New Democracy, the PASOK and the LAOS - not to forget the alliance of the two hundred and fifty-five - which took place around a specific ideological axis. This ideology was based on a promise made by the staff of the Ministry of Education in 2011 that that law would be the tombstone of Postpopulation, would be the end of the rule of the Left. These are all written in the Minutes. Prominent officials of the New Democracy along with Ms Diamantopoulou were trying to convince society not about the content and details of the law, but to convince that universities will start to breathe well, as the revolt would end, this post-population that comes into and returns to the social and political scene as a nightmare for all those who are shaking the opportunities that have been opened in society, as well as in the universities and the TEI. A new world became a member of teaching staff. New and modern books have been written. New cognitive fields have been established. Teachers were involved in universities and TEI in the European research process. Our workshops were equipped by the intensive efforts of teachers and academic discussions were intensified, as well as scientific controversies at universities. The Consequence was all this and so much more. And all that scares conservative forces, because they can't control them. They are frightened because they are convinced that the modern environment and new cognitive fields are a privileged space for the Left. That's what they know. That's what they say. Instead of all being proud of this regeneration of the Greek university, the two hundred and fifty-five operated appallingly and voted for a law that would lead to the ultimate control of the alleged ones, to dig him out a few months later, creating an even more blurred landscape. Look at what Mr Vorides said when he took the floor and voted for the law of Mr Arvanitopoulos: "We know that we of the New Democracy had defended the department as an academic unit, but for reasons that had to do with the overall approach of the matter and the fact that the previous law was indeed extremely important, it was of top importance, which is why we voted. Okay? However, for reasons relating to the overall approach to the issue.' See what the law was saying in the Minutes. What I would like to ask after all is this: what does the New Democracy say? I want to understand it. Does he say we don't change anything in postgraduate programmes? Don't change anything in the way of command? Do you not want the new institutions that we establish and ensure extrovert, such as the Academic Regional Councils and the biennial structures? You don't want the National Board of Education and Human Resources? Do you want everyone to pay tuition fees, regardless of their financial situation? Do you want all the young scientists to pay an extra payroll, who already have a wage and stay outside, who are unemployed? Do you want the tuition at a public university to be determined on the basis of demand rather than cost? And then you say we're backwards? The same questions I would like to put to the Potami and obviously also to the Democratic Reconciliation. But let's see what the bruising session is specifically disagreeing with as a body, and you bring it back and bring it back. They agree with the provisions on the research accounts for the PPE. They agree with the Academic Regional Councils simply find that there are ambiguities. It makes sense, isn't it a new institution not fully defined? I say that and perhaps self-criticically. They agree with the abolition of the institutions' councils, since there has been not a single word in their communications that they want to see the councils stay. They agree with the establishment of two-year structures providing professional certificates to graduates of the ESDP. They agree with the participation of students in the management bodies. They agree with the establishment of the training and lifelong learning centres. What do they disagree with? They disagree with asylum - understandable, okay - and with the way the new administrations are raised, but even so they are not publicly committed to this particular system. We must therefore know that there have been serious convergences with them, and what I said is absolutely true. The shocks were not metaphysical. It was a result of long debates, and the dynamic minorities should not - because they are minority groups among them - give the impression that the media are showing. But there is also the meeting of the presidents of the TEIs, whose announcements are particularly encouraging about the project we are proposing. Everyone says that we need changes and everyone has moved to positions that ensure the functionality of the new institutions and the establishment of academic rules. The voices of a sad minority, which refuses to consolidate the public character of universities and TEI, do not concern us. Since, however, we have heard too much in this Chamber and many exhortations to hear, at last, what the precursors say, we have read only three articles on Sunday, which have also called for them to be heard. I've heard them all these months with great patience and had very good conversations. They will allow me, however, now to some people who are inclined to listen to us. Experience tells us that unless those who have actually proved themselves about the university and who do not have opposition for purely political reasons are differentiated, they will be swallowed by this minority. We are all aware that the positions of the minimum proponents are positions of war on the basis of political criteria. I know I'm angering some people, but that's the truth. We all know that there are precursors - and I state it publicly - that these months have given an extremely complex, difficult and fertile struggle so that the extremists do not prevail. I thank them very much for that. But to know that the success of the law will depend not on what the presidencies or the meetings of the presidents of the TEI are saying. As it appeared, neither did the adoption of laws with two hundred and fifty five MPs succeeded in surviving laws. The success of the law will depend on the thousands of teachers and teachers of the universities and of the TEI, who have been following us with indignation, sometimes with expectations, sometimes hoping that we will finally get rid of the good deadlocks and, at the same time, that their efforts so intensive are going to be brought to the ground and, finally, their conviction that we can achieve it within a public university. We know that some teachers will tell us that the big words are bored, that they cannot withstand bureaucracy, that they are desperate to the indifference of many students, that we do not have decent wages. They're absolutely right. Things won't change from one day to the next. But we promise that, in the year that comes, we will work together with all the administrations, regardless of what they have said about us, so that we can see how we can improve even more points of the law. In this context, I would like to formally announce what the Prime Minister has said today, namely that there will be a brave increase in the state subsidy of universities and TEIs. It will be EUR 65 million in two years, with the first EUR 35 million this year. What we are giving today is an increase of over 30%. From September 2017 to December 2020, the Government will use the minimum of EUR 21 million to strengthen postgraduate studies programmes. This is over 5 million euros a year. Special provision will be made for free postgraduate programmes and postgraduate programmes of regional HEIs. We will start a debate with everyone in the autumn to see the possibilities of establishing 'ERASMUS' in the interior. We're going to start discussions to see if some people can take lessons from next to each other, so that we can make even more use of the possibilities of our universities. We will also begin to discuss the potential of technology so that students can access not a book, but a lot more. We are therefore addressing teachers and teachers, and we hope through differences and shocks that we can achieve. This will be difficult, but let us not forget that our universities are areas of consensus, consensus, conflict coexistence, with our differences, but, ultimately - and historically - they are areas of composition. This is what we live every day in universities and TEIs and this lively and promotional everyday life we want to improve. You will allow me to finish with two personal comments that do not bind the government. I would like to thank all the partners who have been reluctant so long have worked as they have worked. One missing among us, who now gives the battle of his life to the CCU intensive, and he's Yiannis Pantis. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I'd like to dedicate all these conversations we've been having these days. And I'm ending up with something very unpleasant. On 12 July 2017 Mr Mitsotakis in the Political Committee of the New Democracy said that in universities it is attempting to rebuild a sinful past and that today, with the Gavroglou Bill, a real crime is being committed against education. I would like to know where Mr. Mitsotakis draws from the moral stature to speak of a real crime against education. I would like him to explain that to me. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And many of his executives talked to him about dark times. I do not want to concern you, but I would like to read you a statement by the MPs: 'This legislative abortion must not be tabled to the House as it turns us into the darkest era of universities'. Don't you have any secretaries, so that they won't leave such announcements? In the blackest era of universities? Is it possible to say these things by democratic parties? Unless we don't know what the dark times were. I would therefore like to ask you, in the context of a democratic coexistence and debate, not to use such expressions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u643	Thank you, Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr Gavroglou. Because we have reduced Members' time, it's too late...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u644	Seven, eight minutes, Mr. President. Normally. The Minister spoke twenty-two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u645	Two minutes, Mr. Comrade. It's not like that. You wanted to limit the time of the Minister? Is that possible?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u646	We heard him with respect. He's gonna listen to us now, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u647	Would you like to speak seven and a half minutes? You'll speak seven and a half minutes! But is that possible, when you've all been over time a lot longer and I'm telling you to have a relative restriction, you can tell me seven and a half minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u648	Mr President, for ten minutes the world has not broken.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u649	We're following the show.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u650	Mrs. Jufi has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u651	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today's legislative initiative has already been blamed at various levels, before there is in its final form and long before it comes to a debate and a vote in Parliament, with the aim of withdrawing it. The disposal of the bill as a scavenger and backwards, as well as the Minister himself, failed. That is why yesterday an attempt was made by one of the Vice-Presidents of the New Democracy - the most noble - who expressed his discomfort to relax the external pressure, which allows us to pass on our obsolete ideologies. Today he returned to the same pattern and the President of the New Democracy, speaking of the unspeakable accounts from the General Accounting Office of the State and "closing the eye" towards the institutions at the last hour. And before, of course, the impasse of this pressure stated that it would abolish the law when it came to its kingdom, namely the rule of the country, which, fortunately, is not a right inherited, but through the crisis of the Greek people and which is why it should wait. We were accused of announcing the Diamantopoulou Act, before which, according to Mr Maniatis, there was no university right, although other partners, like the rapporteur and Mrs Gennimatas, have, of course, made sure that they are referred to - in the 1982 Act, which was indeed an incision to the institutions as a result of the competitions of the Romano, at the time of the student and university movement, which I know is annoying to you. It has been a diligent attempt, therefore, but I think it has been revealed today. It is concealed that a law passed by a large-scale parliamentary summer majority faced both the academic community and did not apply to society. And that is why a year later, as the Minister said, by urgent procedure was replaced by the 'Arvanitopoulos law'. In what the Minister said, I would like to add three small things: firstly, those who even today think that the councils should continue to exist, I have heard nothing about whether they affect the autonomy of universities and the self-employed, which has as an argument the academic Councils of Higher Education and Research proposed by us, even putting some people on the point of unconstitutionality. The second element, which the Minister pointed out, was the abolition of the department. Let me tell you something, ladies and gentlemen. Do you know that the departments continued to operate informally, because otherwise all the university services would be paralyzed, and we were all waiting for the accelerating legislature of the Arvanitopoulos, so that the university could function satisfactorily? And finally to say something about the university community. What about the election of members of the board of directors, with the closed choices? Seven members, of whom four, if you had contacted the President of the Chamber, could have been elected. Where, then, is the notion of academicity and excellence, which took many changes and regulations, so that academicity could be attributed to it? We were accused of undergraduating postgraduate courses in a debate that naturally revolves around tuition fees, obscuring or even decommissioning extremely unpaid programmes. And it is very characteristic and really interesting what a man from the democratic left said, Mr. Theocharopoulos, that postgraduate without tuition is populism. In this sense, the National Technical University, the University of Ioannina from which I come, the Panteion University is players of populism, because they provide these programmes absolutely free and at the same time they are trusted by the Greek families for the studies of their children, while the international rankings place these universities very high. I should like to make another comment on the subject of postgraduate studies. It has been written in the newspapers that we do have very important universities in Athens with postgraduate degrees that have 12 000 euros, and there are teachers who say from eight to twelve postgraduate courses in different curricula. It is really worth wondering - and I have not heard anyone express it - how a person can respond to all of these lessons, his undergraduate responsibilities, the research programmes - because otherwise his development will proceed - and so that he will not lose his skills, he will also do a free profession. Who, really, do this teaching work? Are they the armies of doctoral students who depend on teachers and do the lessons in their place unpaid or with something to bother them? And are these teachers, ladies and gentlemen, the so-called'majority', which you are defending and which some of them, few and individual, are threatening to close postgraduate studies? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Another issue is what you say that "Okay, you guys, in postgraduate studies we can get scholarships or loans and financial patients to continue their studies." But what's the result? There is the report of the 2008 GSC Education Policy Development Centre stating that the non-poor who have completed a postgraduate degree is twenty-four times more than the corresponding poor. While the Anglo-Saxon model, as it emerged from international publications, which said that if you obtain a sufficient number of scholarships from universities, this guarantees equal opportunities, it has completely collapsed thirty years after the United States and Great Britain and shows that educational inequality has increased, with a direct effect of reducing social mobility, and in the United States of America it has proved that student debts reach 1.3 trillions of dollars. We were charged with causing a spiritual capital outflow. In fact, the same dramatic letter was read twice. Here I will be allowed to say that they are probably suffering from a cynical amnesia, probably not remembered when it started and was gigantic and, above all, what they did to deal with this bleeding. Let us remember: they have not proclaimed a single ICP position of their governments for a whole five years. We have announced five hundred and another five hundred seats for next year. They did not give a single euro to scholarships for the best minds in the country, when we, in fact, supported a EUR 202 million scholarship programme for the next four years. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] They used the doctorates' candidates to cover the educational gaps of the HEIs without legal cover for their teaching pre-service, which we established, we even financed with EUR 42 million and three thousand seven hundred beneficiaries.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u652	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u653	I'll try. The opposition, therefore, very specifically expressed its decision to privatise everything and lift the last obstacle, that is, Article 16. They reproduce a myth, which has grown old as a modern answer. And there are many European examples in this direction, for example in Portugal that this magical recipe has led to the opening of private universities, which have closed most due to tragic quality and a lack of students. So listen, ladies and gentlemen. We determinedly insist that the solution is the continuous improvement in the quality of public university education which has been built with labor and sacrifices for decades. Their support from the state, society and teachers, unfortunately, because of a crisis, which we will try to increase them, as the Minister and the Prime Minister said, without tuition and with little and no means, do universities and people who make them a much better job than all the private universities which were founded on the same opportunities and wages in various countries, as I said above. These are the data that exist and not the myths. Our concern is to strengthen the universities of the country, to improve, to fulfil their academic and social role, and in any case, even though they say that we are bringing the old, this is the new and social necessary, as has proved in a very concrete way and in full documentation, Euklidis Tsakalotos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u654	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u655	I'm done. So what you are announcing is not the future. It's a retro. And the real debate that needs to be opened today is in the direction that we legislate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u656	Mrs Keramemos, rapporteur of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u657	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll be up-to-date. Ten points. Point one: seven weeks have passed and six plenary sessions, so that we can finally hear an explanation for the fact that twenty articles of the bill were not put into public consultation. He said the Undersecretary, but how do you do? You do not ultimately disagree with these articles. Minister, with all due respect, public consultation is not for the Members, it is for the society that wants to be placed, it is for the educational community, which, since the day these twenty articles have been tabled, bomb us - and they do well - because they have not had the opportunity to express their views. Public consultation shall be governed by the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament. It's not for the MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u658	What article are they bombing you for?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u659	Secondly, the Minister has said so on several occasions that he desperately attempts to draw up a consensus picture. You said, Minister, from this step forward, that the budgets agree on everything but two points. While I listened to you, I received two messages on my phone. I'll read them to you. Both messages are from the Presidential Council representatives. A first message: 'It completely reverses our positions'. A second message: "I wonder what else to do. In the presence of everyone, our positions have been relayed." That is the answer, Minister, to the Budgets Council, for which you say that it fully agrees.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u660	Will you tell us who they are?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u661	Do you want names?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u662	Well, of course, you can't tell us while you're reading the messages. That's not right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u663	I can tell you the one name. She's the president of the presidential meeting. Do you want me to say her name? You know her, I guess. Point 3. The SYRIZA rapporteur told us that "we insist that the State General Accounting Office has not estimated expenditure for five of the thirty-seven provisions". And he tells us that 'we do it to draw the attention of the troika'. Madam rapporteur, may I remind you that the obligation to assess expenditure is not the imposition of the troika. It is enforced by the Constitution, which you have said you will be every word of this Constitution. You've said that, and yet you're bringing bills unspeakable. Of the thirty-seven provisions potential costs. How many figures did the General Accounting Office have to estimate the expenditure? For five. It's not the troika, it's the Constitution you said you would keep every word of it. Point 4. I listened with great interest to SYRIZA's representatives as late defenders of the Giannakou law. It made me a very big surprise. And you know what impressed me? Minister, representatives of SYRIZA, would you like to remind us, since you are late supporters of the Giannakou and asylum law, did you vote for the Giannakou Act?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u664	Asylum, not the Yannaku Act.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u665	Giannakou, SYRIZA representatives, did you vote for him? Perhaps we should remind society, which watches us, that not only did you vote for it, but you were on the front line of the protests and the Prime Minister and the Government spokesman against the Giannakou Act. Let us put an end to hypocrisy, at last, in this Chamber. Fifth point. Article 35 on the discharge of student fees for students who do not have the means to pay their postgraduate degrees. Minister, you can present any picture you want. I have told you at all six meetings of this House that we, of course, are in favour of having social policies for students from vulnerable groups who are not able to pay tuition fees. But what you have not told us for six meetings, Mr Minister, is how much this discharge will cost and, most importantly, where you will find the money. Tell us the code to the budget you'll cover this money from. Because otherwise, Minister, it's demagogy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u666	I told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u667	It is demagogy, otherwise, Minister, and it reminds me very strongly in the summer of 2015, when the Prime Minister announced the referendum, a panic prevailed, and then the Prime Minister what he did? He said 'free metaphors for everyone'. I do not judge whether he was wrong or wrong with this announcement. But I do consider this: he did it without accounting for the hotel. Who's the hotel owner? The one who pays. What result was it? A 30-35m-euro hole was created in public transport. And the marble who paid for it? The Greek citizen paid for it because the price of the ticket increased. So this announcement by Prime Minister "free for everyone" was finally paid by the Greek citizen. So that's what we're saying here. We agree that these policies are there, but tell us in particular the code from where the money will come from.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u668	I told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u669	You haven't told us, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u670	I said it and you didn't hear it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u671	Point 6. The Minister told us that the arguments about postgraduate closures - that they would close postgraduate studies, etc. - "They're a ridiculous argument." I have noted his words. I would remind him of what the Athens University of Economics said, which is making postgraduate programmes on board. He said, "Any legislating the draft law will bring disastrous results to the postgraduate studies of the institution. Of the thirty-six distinguished graduates, two thousand three hundred students will only be able to continue their operation. Hundreds of postgraduate employees will lead to unemployment. Scholarships - which so much cut you - to candidate doctorates will be interrupted. The departure of scientists and teachers abroad will be intensified." All right, the argument is ours is ridiculous. Is the argument of the Athens University of Economics with such a reputation, which has such good postgraduate programmes, also ridiculous, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u672	Hundreds of thirty-six graduates?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u673	I read the press release. Point 8. Pan-Hellenic. Minister, this is the next episode of the saga. The pan-Hellenic examinations, which were announced by the Prime Minister at the beginning of May, are being abolished. It didn't take twenty-four hours and you were on a TV set. You asked: Good, the pan-Hellenics are being abolished. But you haven't told us how the kids will get into college. The Minister's reply: we do not know that yet. Two months have passed and the IPA, the Institute of Education Policy, which is under your supervision, announced the new system of access to higher education. Unless you tell us the EPA is no longer under your supervision. So what did the EPA say? That the new access system will be based on the pan-Hellenic exams today or yesterday we had the next episode of the drama. I read your words: 'The present status of the pan-Hellenics will soon be a past'. Minister, a little respect for the world that listens to us. Point Ninth: Polytechnic University of the Aegean. Here we have two decisions of the conference of the University of the Aegean. Both decisions say the headquarters of the University of Technology are in Syros. As magically the bill came and said "Samos' seat of the Polytechnic School of the Aegean". He followed an intra-government break. We all saw her in committee. But what's the ending? You're telling us we're badly accusing you of overconcentration. And yet, Minister, you even come to your favourite tactics: the Minister will finally decide what the seat of the Polytechnic School will be within two months.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u674	You're wrong. The senator.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u675	Okay, you'll fix me if I'm wrong. Point 10: Foreign language programmes. Where we think that after so many days of discussion there will be convergence, there will be a retreat, there has been something in the other direction from the Minister. He brought the legislative improvement in which, while initially talking about foreign language programs only in collaboration with the International University of Greece, he now tells of foreign-language programmes only in collaboration with the International University of Greece and exclusively for citizens of countries outside the European Union. Another restriction on foreign language programmes. I think your intentions are clear, Minister. Last point: Amendment No 1197. It is your amendment, Minister. She is the one who reports the Agricultural School with which we agree, but she also has a paragraph 3 which I would like you to explain to us. Refers to an earlier hearing of the defendant by a disciplinary board. It is a provision that you are putting for the right to be heard at the stage after the disciplinary procedure. I have this question: First of all, the right to be heard has already been covered in the disciplinary procedure. Why is there a right to be heard at a stage of accreditation? First question. Secondly, I would like to ask whether there is any person behind this provision. I directly ask you whether there is any person behind this provision. I shall conclude by saying this: Minister, we hope that, even shortly before the vote, you will incorporate some of our proposals and we hope that you will do so not for us. We hope that you will do so for all these children, the worthy young people who want to stay, create and offer in their country, for all these young people who sincerely, Minister, hopefully do not follow your urge to leave. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u676	Thank you to the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Niki Kerameos. The Minister has the floor to refer to a piece of legislation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u677	Oh, no. There's been a mistake. Excuse me. It's probably my fault. In the legislation of Article 87, in the case of paragraph 12, the eighth subparagraph was deleted. It shall be corrected to the correct that the ninth paragraph is deleted and the eighth paragraph remains. I am not going to answer Mrs Keramea's question now. I'll answer later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u678	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The reason is the special speaker of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u679	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, in the debate on the draft law, two views were drawn from the Government on the detention and control of the HEIs and our own for a public, liberalised, competitive, administratively self-sufficient and financially self-sufficient university with evaluation, transparency and accountability. I am sure, Minister, that you are aware of the popular belief that the walls also have ears. What we lived in the bill debate, however, was that we were addressing ears with walls. It cannot be justified otherwise that your insistence and insistence, Minister, should not be accepted our proposals on asylum, postgraduate, student participation, the rights of graduates of TEIs, and proposals accepted by all the institutions. Objections have been raised and I would like to mention, for example, the findings of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament and the positions of the IPPC. Ladies and gentlemen, the Scientific Committee of the Parliament presents its report. Three comments: Firstly, in the case of asylum, with the proposed regulation of Article 3, the automatic intervention of public power in premises of the HEI is only permitted in cases of crimes and crimes against life. The Scientific Committee of the Parliament therefore reflects, Minister, on the protection of other crimes, particularly self-defense. And he notes that the distinction between crimes against life and crimes against physical integrity is sometimes difficult to diagnose at the time of their execution. And here are questions, Minister. Firstly, who will judge the crime and when? Secondly, if the authorities have to intervene, who will call them? Of course here, according to the bill, we will wait if and when the Republican Council will meet, and of course, after the crime has been completed, that is, never. Finally, Mr Minister, you do not answer why you do not include the injury. Second observation: Participation of Members in management bodies. The Scientific Committee of the Parliament shall consider whether a minority participation in institutions such as the school qualifi­cation with only one section is permissible and whether the student's participation should be consistent with the nature of the competences exercised. That, Minister, contradicts what is foreseen in the bill. Here I am waiting for your answer. Thirdly, with regard to the Academic Councils of Higher Education and Research, Minister, TEIs may be full-time or part-time in accordance with Article 23 of Law 2009/2011. It therefore needs to be clarified whether or not the teachers of APRC members should be full-time or not. What's your answer here? Minister, I would remind you of the programme "Growing Greece" announced last September at the IGC by the Prime Minister. At that time, the Prime Minister pointed out that the project aims to motivate people from the new generation to go abroad to thousands of young scientists from abroad. This programme, Minister, has been thrown into the bells. The conclusions of yours. And I'm coming to the IP. The position of the president of the PPP confirms all our objections and disagreements so far. Article 44 sets out a specific evaluation system by the Scientific Advisory Committee, which, from the way in which it operates and results, shows that it does not concentrate on the characteristics and philosophy of the quality assurance framework. The question put here, Minister, is why a new evaluation institution is being created? I come to the two-year sections I agree with. Minister, the two-year training programmes for the PES graduates have been available to you, and we have also told the committee that they are in a positive direction. Thus, PSA graduates will be given professional qualifications and certification which they have not yet had. As far as student participation is concerned, we support the right of students to participate in expressing their opinion within universities. We do not disagree that they should vote on matters relating to them, such as student care. But the students can't co-administer. In the light of the provisions and the counter-protects, our position is that they must be expressed by a joint ballot with participation in the vote of only the members who have the right to vote and stand as a candidate. With regard to Article 32 on postgraduate courses, our position, Mr Minister, is clear: equal access for all to postgraduate and especially to financially weaker people. In other words, as we have said in committee, we want the excellent people rather than the financially sound ones. In fact, we said 'yes' to a quota for free graduates and grants for the economically weaker, as I said. Postgraduate students can't be the university bill feeder. However, the approval, costing, evaluation and certification of postgraduate workers should be the sole responsibility of the IPPC. It cannot be decided by the Minister and by the committee designated by him. In other words, we are saying 'no to state'. These are PPP issues. In any case, let us not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that the last signature has been signed by the Minister. Article 46. The fifth year is set up as masters for five-year-olds. At the same time, however, you deprive graduates of the opportunity to use as masters in their wage development. In addition, the multi-technical schools themselves confirm it. PPE. - (DE) The framework is narrow bureaucratic. No flexibility. It was particularly stressed by the institutions. They will not be able to operate for the benefit of the research, as you have said. Primary and secondary issues from Article 70 et seq. of the draft law. We have regulations, as I said in committee and yesterday in plenary, which have never been consulted, although there are regulations in the positive direction. There was no dialogue and consultation until the interested parties expressed their views. That's why you don't have our consent. Minister, the bill gives no prospect of internationalisation of the HEIs. Instead of planning a tertiary education based on the future, we are talking about yesterday, ignoring modern requirements and innovative proposals such as the creation of a national academy of sciences and arts, which would give young scientists an incentive to return home. He was going to give the country a new perspective. No such suggestions are missing from your agenda. Mr Minister, I tabled an amendment concerning the EIB. Degree engineers from the Departments of TEIs in order to pursue their professional activities must be members of the EIB. This will form a basis for guaranteeing the professional rights of TEIs and, in particular, of TEI graduates. I would ask you to accept this amendment even now. I heard Mr. Xydakis. Since it is absent, I would not like to expand any more, but to remind him that in 2009-2011 Mr Xydakis and the other antimonist parties were in the Constitution, when the PASOK was what lifted the burden of having a country today. Such behaviours of the MPs of the "four", "German gypsies" of us, have never existed. That is why I would say to Mr Xydakis 'the little words of sugar and no honey'. That is why PASOK, who lifted the burden and now exists, one must respect. Let me remind Mr. Xydakis, however, on the way to the national strategy that drew the PASOK and the government of Giorgos Papandreou, 2009-2011, came and first walked the government of Papademos, then the government of Samaras with the three Zappeias and the 18 billion equivalents, and finally the government "first time left" of Alexis Tsipras with the programme of Thessaloniki. That's why only one: Respect.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u680	Mr Antony Gregos, special speaker of the Golden Dawn, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u681	Thank you, Mr President. We have also referred to the committees and during the plenary session to the articles in the bill. But I shall start with another subject which, however, falls within the competence of the Committee on Morphic Affairs. This is an athletic event that took place in Skopje. I am talking about the withdrawal of the Hudball National Team from the European Championships because, despite the observations and recommendations that have been made, the organising authority has not removed the symbols that afflict our historical memory. I am talking about Macedonia and some other symbols. I congratulate the appropriate Hudball Federation and urge other federations to do the same. We have also made the relevant recommendations to the relevant ministry, and we hope that it will at some point be national. The Minister spoke of black, white, democracy. You know a lot of them are subjective. Who's black, who's white anyway, who's a democrat, who's not. We are not democrats for you, for us you are not democrats. These are all things about. I have a proposal and I hope it will be heard if I do not think it will be heard by you about the start of the school year. We'd like for symbolic reasons to start school year on September 14th. It's the Cross Day. For good reason. To make the necessary sanctification, to pray, to take the flag, as the law says. Unless, of course, he goes down on a weekend. I shall refer a little to the articles on roll-call votes. For Article 34, we shall vote 'Failures' only for the provision relating to the facilitation of students with a view to the facilitation of HEIs. It's a very important provision. And I would like to say on the article on the election of the regulators and the regulators that, here too, we will be voting'represent' because we cannot participate in the procedures and confederations concerning the SYRIZA and the New Democracy. The bill will of course be passed by a hundred and fifty-three Members. As he came with this number of amendments, you overtake the habit of the urgent bill and bring in the rain of amendments. This is a new way of legislating. It will therefore be voted on by the SYRIZA format - ANEL with a hundred and fifty-three votes, because, as we have said many times, there is a lot of money and a lot of privileges. The vision that the Minister invoked for education is a nightmare for us. Of course we do not believe the Minister's announcements on education, because education cannot function like this - and I am talking about economic issues in time of memoranda. There are too many articles in the world and I am going to use the term - such as the article in which the protection and immunity of terrorists and criminals and too many illegal immigrants acting within university institutions is shielded. I also told the committee that criminal activity could start as a flood, that is to say the drop of a stone or a molotov would start as a flood and end up as a felony by removing a human life. What are you going to do about it? What are you going to do with people who will be invited to make such decisions? You are responsible for their decisions and above all you are responsible for bringing this infamous article back, as I said before. Indisputable and darkening, too, is the conduct article and I'm talking about Article 70. Reading and only paragraph 1 raises questions about what picture and especially what perceptions the Ministry of Research and Religious Affairs has of most Greek students on the ground. One sees in this paragraph that all secondary school students do not have the appropriate conduct, Your Honor, I mean, in this unequivocally insulting manner, the morality and treatment that they have received from both the family and the public school. It provokes indignation and it is highly diseductive that the Ministry of Research and Religious Affairs itself is to level all secondary school students as a roadmap by removing the conduct of the dismissals and qualifications, supposedly, so that they do not be stigmatized. I would like to say a serious statistical element concerning the research sector. Indeed, there is a grim section. Let us say here that our country has only been holding the 20th place in the international ranking of scientific articles and the nineteenth place between the twenty-eight countries of the European Union, based on the recent IES data. Let me turn to the amendments. With regard to 1176/118, the well-known amendment concerning illegal immigrants, we want to say that it is not only the competent Minister of the Mozambique, but also some mayors who collaborated in this crime - Butarris, Kamine, and all the others - as well as those gangs of solidarity, NGOs, but also international organisations such as the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, which plays the most dirty role at the expense of our country and other European states, and we must finally start the relaunching of illegal immigrants, stop using the term refugees - immigrants because the war in Syria is over. These people must return to their homeland and make it as they wish. In Amendment No 1184/126, specific arrangements are introduced for the completion of work on the submarines 'PIPINOS', 'OKEANOS', 'MAROZOS' and 'KATSONIS' entrusted by the Greek State to the Navy. Article 26 provides for an additional EUR 19.7 million to be made available for the completion of additional work on full operational efficiency in these submarines. It is a proper provision that we are voting for, but with some reservations. A little late remember the operational readiness of these submarines. These submarines should already be floating in the Aegean Sea to defend our territorial waters. We hope that the work will be completed quickly. With issues relating to national defence, they do not play or become improper. What strengthens national defence towards our enemies finds us in agreement. Amendment No 1186/128 lifts the existing limitation on the renewal of the term of office of the members of the board of directors of the Acropolis Museum once, i.e. the term of office of the Board shall remain three years, but shall not be renewed and a new composition arises. The report of the impact assessment shows the desire of the relevant Minister to appoint persons of his choice to the management board of the museum, satisfying personal pursuits, acquaintances and political interests. For Amendment No 1187/129, we agree that cases of economic crime should be clarified, but we stress that this should be permanent and, above all, that large private funds and political persons who have managed or managed public funds. Here I would like to ask what is going on with the debts of the parties. Are you paying the people you owe? Of course not! The Greek people are being loaded. In conclusion, this bill is unacceptable in all respects, except for a few fragmentary provisions, but which are lost within the whole. Based on the above, I will vote against the bill. We demand national education, which you cannot provide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u682	The reason is the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Ioannis Delis. Mr. Delia, you had taken four more minutes in your protology. I'll give you five for the next year's economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u683	I'm afraid I'm gonna need some more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u684	All right, let's make it seven. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u685	Ladies and gentlemen, if anyone takes over SYRIZA's horn with New Democracy these days and sees the bill as it really is and not the way SYRIZA wants to show it to be or the New Democracy sees it, then it will see that this bill binds higher education even tighter into the chariot of capital and business groups. Where do we support this? First of all, he is not even mentioned and is not at all concerned with the needs of the students of the people's families who spit blood in order to study their children. And, of course, it is not about this bill, nor about the young scientists who are crushed by SYRIZA's policy, nor about those university teachers who refuse to become ordinans of business interests. It's addressed to others. It is for all those who have an interest in turning higher education, as well as all the education, into a servant of capitalist profits - a lever of capitalist development - you say that - to all those who have an interest in converting universities and TEI to large commercial stores with their customers the children of popular families. His most important articles prove it. Since the first article also deepens the anachronistic distinction between the academic and the technological sectors of higher education, very simply proving that this cannot be solved within a system of exploitation, because the capitalist market has its own rules and it is the one that eventually leads all governments to create more and more intermediate stages, classified, constantly categorizing degrees and graduates in order to increase the range of workers available each time by employers. And the best practices of the European Union and the OECD, the SYRIZA Government, is pouring them out too quickly. So many different tuition fees we've never met in a HEI bill. Tuition everywhere, tuition in postgraduate, liberated, without even this plaque promised by the Minister, tuition fees in the training and lifelong learning centres operated by universities, tuition fees in the foreign-language undergraduate programmes organised by the HEIs, tuition fees in the two-year vocational training programmes. And we insist, Minister, that is the word 'free'. But she refuses to put her in the bill. Put it on, and we will withdraw our criticism at this point.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u686	It's public, it's free.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u687	And public IECs are public, Minister. Only it's not as free as you know, and those.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u688	Meaning?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u689	So they pay tuition fees, lower than private, but they pay. No, it's not the public, it's not. "The bill of tuition" could well be his title. Below. It prohibits permanent and stable work for contractors who work in all the services of the IEO and expressly mentions it in Articles 13, 58, 64, 69. With Articles 5 and 10, which speak of the process of founding, merging, repealing, etc. The HEIs, through presidential decrees, do not only set budgetary criteria. You are relying primarily on criteria to harmonize these HEIs in a flexible and rapid manner to the needs of large enterprises. That is why, in the most crucial issues of capital, such as this, or in the postgraduate or even two-year training programmes, the opinion of the National Human Resources Development Council, where BSE has already taken a stadium, will also be taken to monitor closely what is happening. As for the new administrative arrangements that SYRIZA brings to the HEIs, what he is looking for with it, as all governments did, it is nothing but finally to find those administrative bodies at the EITs that will meet the criteria and meet the demands of the large companies in our country. You are talking about democracy, on the occasion of the return of student participation to the administrative bodies of the HEIs, except of course these regional bodies. Who? You, when your policy, the SYRIZA policy, breaks down students' rights, destroys youth rights. The participation of the student and student movement will, in fact, be important, since it is in the interests of defending its claims, from revealing the nature of the measures introduced into the meetings of these administrative bodies, rather than from the point of view of their integration into the business of the HEIs, as the Government and all the urban parties seek, with the student groups, in particular, the New Democracy and PASOK, taking the lead in this direction and in close proximity to some "agonists", preachers of the incomprehensible student movement, throw water into the same mill, the incorporation mill. In the bill there are other articles, about 20, in the so-called 'other provisions for education', for the rest of the education, that is. With Article 70, which raises a little the time of the sick leave, yes, you do improve the situation, which is why we support it. In no case, however, does the law require substitute teachers to assimilate to the issue of licences to the permanent. They are not going to take many days when the Minister himself asked a question from the JRC, which specifically ruled out. With Article 71, you put some oil into the wound that you opened to private teachers with the recent fourth memorandum when you abolished the regulation of the previous Minister. You return a little responsibility to the service councils for private teachers' work, except your memorandum law is there and is not overturned with such a thing and it is always a constant threat to private teachers. We hope - and we hope - that this will not become the pretext for redundancies.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u690	Make degrees legally or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u691	As far as the amendments are concerned, I will need a minute, Mr President. For the amendment of the Ministry of Migration Policy, we want to make it clear that we agree with the point that the residents of the Municipality of Paionia are being compensated and we are, of course, talking about Idomen and the Evzoons and we will vote for it if it comes as a separate article and I think that's the way it comes. Even so, do you have this compensation for immigrants paying it through the paradoxes they pay in the Greek state? Such social sensitivity? For the now amendment by the Ministry of Justice, for the notaries, what can anyone say? The "no house in the hands of a banker" becomes electronic auctions and the ball adds it to the notaries. We shall also vote for the amendment by the Ministry of Defence, just to pay the workers at the Scaramaga shipyards, whom you continue to hold hostages, as your policy is, of course, continuing to devaluate the potential of this industry, whose development will be sure only in the context of a socialist economy. The amendment dealing with the transfer of pupils and giving another extension to uncertainty leads us to ask you when you really intend to secure the right to the safe movement of pupils in schools, despite so many years of dragging this issue. In the amendments tabled by the Ministry of Labour, we want to state - and I think this is how they come in a special article - that we will vote on the provision for the book of agricultural work, the land workers, and the provision for former workers in the Sugar Industry, which your policy has smashed them, as well as for the Greek sugar industry, together with the producers. We shall vote, if it comes to a separate article, and that provision of the Ministry of Education's amendment that you are planning to take into account as an educational pre-service, pre-service in private schools. I left for the end, because it really binds in harmony with the rest of the bill, the anti-educational - and it is the most urgent characterisation - an amendment of twenty-nine SYRIZA Members for teachers, whom you will be able to move wherever you like. After you have shut down and continue to close schools and merge departments, after you have reduced the hours of physical education in schools, you come to use this now, to move these trainers without asking them - which, in your policy, you say they are abundant - to sports centres and swimming pools instead of to appoint permanent staff from thousands of unemployed trainers and gymnasts. We've talked about the bill. We are voting against it at first and, of course, most of the articles. We will be more specific in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u692	Thank you, Mr. Delis. Mr George Mavrotas has the floor, a special speaker from the Potami.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u693	Thank you, Mr President. I won't need more than five minutes. I'll be brief. It's been said enough. I will begin with the terms 'extract' and 'territorial' used by the Minister for the Law. They were also used by SYRIZA MPs for the corresponding v.4009/2011. So don't make us...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u694	Is that one?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u695	No, they were just used there. If it makes an algal impression one, it makes the other an almond impression.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u696	A real political crime. Take a seat for this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u697	Tell it to the people who say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u698	That's what I said, what do you want me to defend?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u699	Nor can you defend the terms 'extract' and 'terrorist' of yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u700	I didn't defend these.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u701	I have some specific questions, Minister. In defending the separate list, you said many times that we should vote for people and not for groups. In fact, today, the Prime Minister said that we should vote for people and not parties and that Mr Tsakalotos also repeated it and I am glad to hear that. I therefore propose that we also do so in the student elections, that we put the single vote - as we have proposed - and that the clubs vote, rather than party, student groups. Go on to that, too. Don't have two yards, two stations. As far as the transitional provisions are concerned, we have said so in private. For Article 85(2)(b) with the final transitional provisions, I would like you to confirm that the new regime for the year 2018-2019 - and not since 2017-2018 that the various postgraduate programmes have already been launched - will apply not only to students but also to teachers, that is, to Articles 32-37. They will go from September 2018. Also, I think you're using some kind of salt card arguments. So the breakthrough that was bad when we were talking about the dean and the institution councils, now it's good to talk about the dean and the dean that's coming from a separate ballot. At some point, that is to say, there should also be consistency in the arguments. You're also saying that with postgraduates you want to give young scientists a job. You, however, put a very narrow corset saying that 80% will come from the LPD members of the departments that do the MDDs. He's staying a little bit for the rest of us. I think it's a little 20% if it's really your intention to give young people a job. In addition, in addition to asylum officers in Article 3, the Scientific Service of the Parliament has objections. We have read it in her report too. But you ignored her conveniently. And let me close with something more personal. Because I was also provoked by Mr Vernardakis, and by Mr Chakalotos, and Mrs Anagnostopoulou and Mr Spirtz - four times I have been mentioned and I am allegedly an enemy of the public university, a follower of the neoliberal university, and of the market university - Minister, I want to say something. Listen to it, Mr. Friend, it might be of interest to you too. Because they present me as a fan of the neoliberal university, I can tell you that I am a child of the public school and the Greek public university, unlike several ministers and MPs of yours. As a university I work at the National Technical University of Athens, which has free postgraduate degrees and I try to contribute to the promotion of the Greek public university with my scientific work. And because I heard many scientific lectures today, you know, the resonance of scientific work has some specific indicators for a university, such as the number of references to scientific work, the citations, which are neither neoliberal nor socialistic, nor left nor right. And because you may know me as an athlete, I will inform you that if you sum up all the references to SYRIZA scientific work and seventeen Members of SYRIZA's universities, they still don't reach mine. Not only am I not opposed to the Greek public university, but I am totally militant about it, contributing to its visibility and categorisation by acts and not by words and I am proud of it. In conclusion, then, we are expressing two different worlds for the public university. Your account of this bill is good for your party audience, but bad for the country's future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u702	Thank you, Mr. Mavrota. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u703	I do not think, Mr President, that there is something to say. I think everything has been clarified. I really want to thank the House. All right, tensions are sometimes part of the process, but I think even with these tensions there have been comments that have been incorporated. We have said that next year will be the year of the gradual implementation of the law and I am sure we will find too many things that are incomplete and which I hope we will improve. However, I thank all my fellow Members and all my fellow Members and the Bureau obviously.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u704	Thank you, Minister. The debate on the bill is closed for the time being. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-01-S1-commons.u705	With the consent of the House at the time of 23.50' the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday, August 2, 2017 at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's work, legislative work: a) a vote on the principle, articles and all, namely, the holding of a roll-call vote on Articles 3, 15, 32, 34, 36 and on the amendment number 1177 and an amendment number 119/28-7-2017 on the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: ‘Organisation and functioning of higher education, arrangements for research and other provisions’; and b) only debate and vote on the principle, articles and the whole draft law of the Ministry of Health: ‘Reforming the Primary Health Care, urgent arrangements for the responsibility of the Ministry of Health and Other Provisions’, in accordance with the agenda.
