ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-16-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the QUESTIONS We begin with our second question under number 6/2-10-2017 of the Independent MP of Athens, Georgios - Dimitrios Karras, Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: "The need for a direct legislative initiative to limit the responsibility of the heirs to the inherited inheritances". Here, Mr. Carras, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-16-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. As is known to all, the heir historically bears the debts of the inheritance. This had some historical and economic value in the past when the properties were small, they were small and the debts. So the heir by taking the inheritance of the inherited, strengthened and economically could survive. It is reasonable, therefore, for small debts to be the concept of responsibility. In time, however, especially since the economic crisis was created, it has been observed that the debts of the inheritances are multiples of the property that is inherited and, in addition, most of the time, they are multiples of the heir's property or even many times the heir has no personal property. The responsibility of the heir for the debts of the inheritance can therefore no longer function, and that is why the phenomenon of successive decommissioning has been observed in order to avoid their responsibilities. I will only give the following dimension: We can see how many families run every day in the courts to obtain the court's permission to give up the inheritance that has come after their own renouncement to their minor child, so that the burdens of inheritance, which will be followed throughout his life, do not come to light. In this sense, given that neither the public interest is served, because it is simply a burden, but it is also a burden on non-economic transactions and property and more persons, which, when you are hunting them, do not have the right to create income but also to produce for the economy, I have made this proposal, Mr President, to separate the personal property of the heir from the property it possesses and its debts, so that the forced execution of any activities to the detriment of the inheritance - property does not affect the heir as such. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In view of the number of abortions and the fact that the public, the banks and the insurance institutions after a long time have been looking for the heirs of the second, third and fourth grades, when they are now ignoring the heir's status, the deadline for the divestment has been lost, I think we should set a rule for the separation of the heir's property from the inheritance, the debts of the property to be borne by it, so that families and the economy can continue their course. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-16-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, too. Mr. Karras will be answered by the Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Mr. Stavros Kontonis. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-16-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I am surprised at the content of the question and the questions you have tabled. For the questions you have put and in writing, the Civil Code gives an answer. I would remind you that Article 1902 concerns the acceptance by the census and Article 1905 of the legacy of a separate group. It mentions in 1905 the following: "After the declaration of acceptance of an inheritance with the benefit of the census, the rights and obligations of the inheritance are automatically separated from the heir's property and constitute a separate unit". Therefore, our fairness, the Civil Code solves these issues. In particular, for the first time you are asking, I believe that the acceptance of census benefits completely solves the problem. When these two economic units are not separated, then the lenders of the inherited property can be satisfied with the assets of this property alone. I therefore find no point in discussing the question you have put, nor is there any scope for legislative initiative, because these issues have been resolved. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-16-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Carras, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-16-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, I have to say that I am impressed by the Minister's answer. Because it was limited to invoking the provisions of the Civil Code relating to the beneficial inheritance census, while the subject of my question was not that. The subject of my question was quite different. The person who knows he is a heir and knows that he has the right to renounce himself within four months. On the contrary, the phenomenon of the times of crisis, which we are currently experiencing, is that the first, second, heirs should not be known to the next, third or fourth grades, nor that they have acquired the status of heir, neither the hereditary elements nor the weights of the inheritance. At some point - and this reality has confirmed - the public financial service is coming, after three, four years, so that they have lost the right to renounce themselves and therefore, since they cannot be renounced, they cannot exercise the declaration of acceptance of the inheritance for the benefit of the right of census. So it's based on the fact that the property of the individual from the inheritance should be separated. I can mention a series of examples coming after three, four years of the DU and saying that "Mr. X owed your uncle so much money to the tax office, I impose you a confiscation." I note that, in the Memorandum of Understanding, seizures are not announced, but are normally imposed on banks on third parties, and we learn that much later on when we go to make a transaction. Furthermore, the same issue has been raised with the banks, which in the event that the person who has obligations with the banks is deceiving, after years of identifying a heir, a third, fourth or fifth grade, who does not know many times even the death of the inherited person, but is not even aware of the object of the inheritance. So this man is forced to make the statement of dismissal or the declaration of acceptance with the benefit of the census. Do you know what obligations he has, Mr. President? He must appeal to all the courts. Because the tax office has imposed a confiscation either on a bank account or on a real estate or on another asset. It must be withdrawn, it must be "run" to annul the act of administrative execution. Also, in the case of the enforcement of the bank, the bank has received a payment order. The bank, however - I must remind you at least in law - to issue the payment order does not notify the debtor or the debtor. It does so, it imposes the necessary measures and must once again be "run" by the heir of the indebted legacy to suspend the order of payment, to enter a judiciary of years in order to prove what? To prove that he did not know that he was a heir, that he did not know that the property had come to him, so the acceptance or renunciation he made is legal. In this respect, I have not heard an answer from the Ministry of Justice. Because the rate of dismissals - to remind you that they are elements of the Ministry of Justice, they are not my own - were that for a hundred twenty-thousand deaths in 2016, if I am accurate, in Greece we had forty-six thousand inheritance releases. So the question I raised, Mr President - and I shall end right away - is not whether the Civil Code provides for an inheritance census or an abduction because that means that you must know that you are a heir, that you have a burden on the inheritance, that you have that right. These are, therefore, seasons of peace, in times of economic crisis and, in any case, today, in the reply I received, Mr President, I have to say this: in the end the heir becomes a guarantor of the inherited person, and that is no longer in the public interest, it is only in favour of the credit institutions and the public, which he claims from everywhere. We have an example of the fact that neither the guarantors in the extrajudicial compromise were supported or nowhere else. So I think the Minister should accept my view. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-16-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-16-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, I think that from my colleague's dentology he has seen that he has not had the institution of the census benefit. That is why he has asked a question which he has been asked on several occasions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-16-S1-commons.u9	I am forty-three years of lawyer and you do not have the right to question my knowledge, because you are also inappropriate. I have to say you're inappropriate. You're causing...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-16-S1-commons.u10	Please, Mr. Carras!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-16-S1-commons.u11	So you say in your question - listen to what he says, Mr President - 'Do the government intend to take a legislative initiative, so that the legacy as a separate asset group and the responsibility of the heir will be limited to the group's assets and will not extend to its own property? That's what you're asking and getting crowns out!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-16-S1-commons.u12	Read the history to understand what he says and then teach me!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-16-S1-commons.u13	No dialogue, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-16-S1-commons.u14	Not only have you been exposed to your legal requirements today because you did not know minimum provisions of the Civil Code, but you are also creating a controversy on issues that are not addressed in your timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-16-S1-commons.u15	Read to see what I'm saying!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-16-S1-commons.u16	So, whatever you want to write it down. Fortunately, the writings are left, Mr. President. If you want anything else, we're here. We do not need to take any legislative initiative on issues dealt with in the Civil Code. What you have said is problems which do not relate either to the current question or to the issues raised by the Urban Code. And you know that the four-month deadline begins for each class of the inherited ones after the deadline and the renunciation of the previous ones. So what you tell us has been the case for so many years and is normal. The issue of increased decommissioning has nothing to do with the law, which solves these issues definitively and irrevocably and in a clear and thorough manner. It is about the economic crisis, and it is about the burdens that people, who are depriving, of their potential heirs. In fact, the Ministry of Finance and Mrs Papanatsiou have responded on these issues on several occasions. As far as legislative matters are concerned, therefore, the Civil Code has solved them. Take another look to remember them again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-16-S1-commons.u17	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-16-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-16-S1-commons.u19	Mr. Carras, may I ask you to apply...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-16-S1-commons.u20	But he can't question my legal knowledge.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-16-S1-commons.u21	I respect your opinion, but we must apply the Rules of Procedure. You can have a debate in private with the Minister - I think he will not object - because the Bureau is again reminding us that the Rules of Procedure say that the debate is taking place through the Bureau, that is, the President or the President-in-Office, because otherwise we are leading to a press conference which does not give Parliament proper conduct.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-16-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-16-S1-commons.u23	I will give you the floor on staff, but you will speak on this, Mr Carras, and you will address me directly.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-16-S1-commons.u24	Yes, Mr. President. I shall turn to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-16-S1-commons.u25	Yes, sir. To what is the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-16-S1-commons.u26	Mr President, the Minister cannot influence the content of my question. It leaves peaks - and not only - and is making a direct attack on my knowledge and capabilities and I have to answer that this is due to his inability to answer. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-16-S1-commons.u27	Uh, no, you don't have to move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-16-S1-commons.u28	After causing me, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-16-S1-commons.u29	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-16-S1-commons.u30	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-16-S1-commons.u31	Here, Minister, you have the floor to finish this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-16-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, who is unable to speak and answer, I think it seems. I read the articles of the Civil Code, which the honourable Member must bear in mind when asking questions and knowing from his profession, but also from the Member's position, that the census benefit is given to the Civil Code. There is particular reference to the Civil Code to a large number of articles and they should be aware of them. I'm returning your weaknesses.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-16-S1-commons.u33	Thank you. Talks sometimes get sharp, but colleagues you are - I mean, lawyers - so you can have a dialogue outside the House, Mr Carras.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-16-S1-commons.u34	I have to say he's unethical. It does not know Parliament's ethics.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-16-S1-commons.u35	All right, all right. Please. Before moving on to the second topical question, I would like to inform the House that the Secretary-General of the Government, Mr Kalogerou, is not going to discuss the questions. Therefore, the second question under number 14/2-10-2017 of the first cycle of Monday 9 October 2017, MP Carditsa of the New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Tsiaras, to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "The Institutional stumbling of the Minister of National Defence", will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister of Panos Kammenos abroad. Also the first question under number 19/3-10-2017, first question Monday, 9 October 2017, MP Chania of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Antonios Balomenakis, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: “Illegal contract at the Polytechnic University of Crete”, will not be discussed due to a blockade by the Member in question. Furthermore, the second question by number 27/5-10-2017, first cycle, on Monday 16 October 2017, by MP Laconia of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Leonidas Gregorakos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Summary of hospitals in intensive care units (ITC) private clinics", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister, Mr. Polakis, due to unsuccessful obligations. In addition, the second question under number 34/6-10-10-2017 of the Second Cycle on Monday 16 October 2017 of the First Vice-President of the Parliament and of the Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastinos, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "No visible development in the creation of a therapeutic oncology section in Rhodes", will be discussed due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister, Mr. Polakis, due to unseen obligations. Also, the third with number 25/3-10-2017 a top-level question Monday, October 9, 2017, MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Health, regarding the chronic lack of medical staff at the pediatric surgery clinic of the University General Hospital of Heraklion (PAGNI), will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Minister of Health, Mr. Polakis, due to unsuccessful obligations. Also, the fourth question under number 13/2-10-2017, the first question on Monday, October 9, 2017, Member of the Greek Parliament, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Payment of Law 128/1975", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Finance, Mr. Tsakalotou, due to a workload. Furthermore, the first question under number 11/2-10-2017 of Monday, 9 October 2017 by MP Lesvos of New Democracy Mr Charalambos Athanasiou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the start of the work of restoring the school buildings of the Municipality of Lesvos, which have been damaged by the earthquake of 12 June, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr. Gavroglou, due to a workload. We shall now proceed to the next topical and urgent debate. The first question will be discussed under No 45/9-10-2017 in the first cycle of Monday 16 October 2017 by MP Kilkis of the New Democracy. Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgiontas to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: “Continues injustice with the end of a trade in small villages”, as well as the first question with number 46/9-10-2017 on the second cycle of Monday 16 October 2017, by MPs I’ of the New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Katsafadas, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the imposition of a trade charge on villages with a population of up to five hundred inhabitants. These two questions refer to the same subject. They will therefore be discussed at the same time without affecting the rights of speakers in the course of their speech, pursuant to Rule 131(4) of the Rules of Procedure, when this is the case, namely when questions are the same subject. Mr Georgantas has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-16-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Katsafandos, on the same day as me, tabled this question. Because he and I, we are being filed with the professionals of the very small villages below five hundred inhabitants for the well-known problem, which exists in relation to the end of a trade. Minister, in a relevant timely question I asked in February 2017 in this Chamber you replied by word: "Actually, we continue to say that it is an injustice, which we must correct. We do not disagree on that, Mr Colleague.' And you came to your position saying: 'I repeat that the Ministry's disposal is really to be corrected and I believe that the next tax statements will be cleared up and we will not have a trade tax in the small villages'. While I thought, Minister, last time the problem, which has arisen and the issue, was understood - and I think that your position, that is exactly what it meant on that day - and we did expect, in the new tax declarations, that there should not be a trade charge in villages of the fifty inhabitants, the eighty inhabitants, the hundred people, where there are small agricultural enterprises, where there are small cafes, where there are free professionals. Unfortunately, we have seen that in these tax declarations too, there is this trade charge, which actually leads to these small professionals being exterminated, commercial, agricultural and professional. There is nothing possible, which, in my opinion - but like you have admitted - is clearly reflected in Article 31 of the law passed by the Greek Parliament in 2011 on the end of trade in small villages, to be interpreted, misinterpretations, misinterpretations. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. And at the moment, we have the fact that in a village of a hundred inhabitants that someone pays a trade fee and in another village of four hundred fifty, four hundred ninety people will not pay, precisely because the ministry cannot clear up an issue in which, in the first place, it has agreed with us. Please, Minister, I really expect a clear position to see what happened all these months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-16-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, too. Mr Katzafados, it is your turn to develop your question to the Minister too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-16-S1-commons.u38	Unfortunately, Minister, on a difficult day for the government's financial staff we are discussing this question, because it does not leave much room for manoeuvre the results, which we have so far from the budget, with this EUR 2.4 billion hole, which is now being observed. You will, of course, ask yourself what a Member of Parliament from the First Piraeus has to do with a question about the end of a trade, which has to do with small villages and their inhabitants, with small communities. This, in connection with the question tabled by my colleague Mr Georgios, shows the scale of the problem. The same problem with what the mountain villages of Macedonia are facing, I in my own constituency and it has to do with the villages of Troizin, even with Kythira. Indeed, Minister, I do not need to make a historical retreat where the 2011 law was clear and mentioned for villages. Then there was an interpretation, which has to do with the communities. I would like to say to you - and you should know - that a community can consist of five, six, seven, eight villages, which among themselves have a distance of four, five, even ten kilometres and, indeed, it is very unfair, as Mr Georgiodakis said, these people have to pay 600 euros a year. And, not only is it unfair, not only, if you like, it's not legal, it's not right, but it also creates unfair competition. So I really am sorry to see that the state again fails to stand up to the circumstances. We would like a clear answer from you, because unfortunately, while you were committed eight months ago that in these tax statements this injustice would have been corrected, continued and existed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-16-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, too. Madam Minister, you have the right to use six minutes, three minutes for each question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-16-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I think that every time we have some new figures from the Ministry of Finance on the budget, we are once again starting to destroy. In this case, it has been announced by the Treasury that 2,29 billion has nothing to do with revenue shortfalls, but it has to do with late payment, which in any case does not cause a problem in the budget and you know it or perhaps you don't know it. I would like to inform you that late debts have nothing to do with the budget, but it is only a cash problem. A small amount of reduction, it relates to HPAI, the last instalment of which has taken place in January 2018, as it went last year and will be taken into account in the revenues of this year's budget. Don't destroy any more. It will be the third year our government will catch the targets. Every year you come and tell us the same thing from the first day we're government. In this respect, Article 31(3) of Law 3986/2011 provides that they are exempt from the obligation to pay the trade fee, except in the case of tourist sites, commercial enterprises and free traders, carrying out their activities in villages with a population of up to five hundred inhabitants and on islands of less than three thousand inhabitants. With the islands we have made it clear and there is no question. There's a problem with the villages. Indeed, the then Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Pantelis Economou, adopted the Ministerial Decision 1167/2-8-2011, which laid down in paragraph 3 of Article 3 that in order to determine the population, in order not to impose a trade charge, the villages and islands as planned before the entry into force of Law 2539/1997 will be taken into account for the implementation of the 'CAPTERTRIA' project. Subsequently, the Secretary-General of Public Income Harry Theocharis issued his interpretative circular 1149/20-6-2013, which provided clarification regarding the imposition of the special solidarity levy and the trade fee and stated that, if a village was not, during the time considered by itself - because the communities know as legal entity - and therefore belongs administratively to another community or municipality, the community's population or its municipality should be taken into account for the exemption from the trade charge. Therefore, it appears that not every settlement is considered separately, but the community that was all constituted together before 'CAPESTRIA'. In addition, in order to find the actual population, the 2001 census was initially taken into account, and in Decision MOL 1051/2014 of the Secretary-General of Public Revenue, as was the case with the newly adopted Decision MOL 1034/2017 of the independent authority, it was established that the 2011 census would be taken into account for the imposition of the trade fee or a reduced fee. It is the 11247/28-10-12 decision of the Hellenic Statistical Authority. Furthermore, under its Protocol No 1069847 document, the Directorate-General of the Independent Public Revenue Authority stated that in exceptional circumstances where the tax administration does not have information on the correct enforcement of the trade charge, the taxable persons liable, if they find that they are mistaken, may apply to the competent DUA for a new liquidation in order to verify the facts. I will submit the relevant document of the Independent Public Revenue Authority. Because we have already dealt with the issue you raise, we have addressed the relevant departments, as we committed ourselves to the previous answer we gave to the Member, Mr Georgiodas, and we addressed the Ministry of the Interior, which informed us that before the implementation of Law 2539/1997, the term "KOPITRIA" was not a country, because it was not an administrative entity, i.e. a municipality or a community. I have the corresponding document of the Ministry of Interior, which I also submit. Therefore, by law, a village or it will be the same community because of its population, i.e. it will be a separate legal person or more villages, in order to form a community or a municipality, in the sense that we all know from our visits and from our regions. In any case, however, for the imposition or not of the trade fee, the official of the DU cannot perform any performance, see if there is the village and do the autopsy. The communities and municipalities as they were before the "KEPTERITRIA" are taken into account, regardless of whether they were abolished. With regard to your question, Mr Katsafados, on the provision of a change in the method of levying the trade fee, to be calculated on the basis of the turnover of enterprises, this is a proposal that requires processing and for the time being we cannot commit ourselves to the possibility of regulation. I would remind you, however, that in the previous time-consuming question tabled by Mr Georgiodas, I had said that a request has been made to the Greek Statistical Authority on the meaning of the village. The relevant document issued by the Hellenic Statistical Authority contains the following. ELSTAT in the announcement of the results of the censuss does not use concepts such as a city or a village and thus does not set criteria for the characterisation of the autonomous settlements as such. It is also stated that it would be useful and often necessary before drafting legislative texts, regulatory decisions, etc., including statistical conditions, to consult ELSTAT in order to avoid gaps and delays. I also have the corresponding document from ELSTAT, which I submit. I shall return to my words, in Mr Georgioda's previous question, and I shall mention that my statement on our conviction that the matter would immediately be cleared up, was based on our belief that ELSTAT would give us the solution in terms of an official definition of the village that could be implemented. Unfortunately, however, that did not happen. I reserve the rest in my dentistry, since my time is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-16-S1-commons.u41	Thank you. Mr Georgiotis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-16-S1-commons.u42	Mr President, the communities live. Communes have not been abolished. We have to go back to our villages and tell them that communities, procapodist communities and capodistrians live. Because, while this legal entity has now been forgotten - there is no self-government, the community's entity - I have to tell the resident of a village of 50 inhabitants, 'you know, you have its misfortune that twenty years ago your village belonged to the community, and all of you, who were then the community, the five villages, you exceed the number of five hundred inhabitants, so that is why you are subjected to a trade tax in the next village, which has four hundred ninety-nine inhabitants, but it was a community, it was a community in this one village, it is not enforced'. The reply from the Minister goes beyond me as a legal person and offends me as a Member. And let me tell you why, Mr President. Article 31 of the 2011 Act is absolutely clear. He's talking about villages. We are now coming here with interpretations of various services, with misinterpretations of various service factors, and we in this House have legislated that villages below five hundred inhabitants will not pay a trade fee, now we say to these people "you have to pay a trade tax, because you are in old communities". In law, there's a start. Let's see exactly what the legislator wanted - which for me is clear - let's go to the explanatory statement and see the justification for this exception. There's an exception here. The people in villages under the hundred inhabitants shouldn't have paid. Why? Because in the very small villages I have to support the cafeteria, which must exist in the village with the fifty inhabitants, I must support the farmer, the farmer, who in a village of a hundred inhabitants comes and engages in an activity. In other words, it is not the village of a thousand inhabitants or a thousand five hundred with the infrastructures, with the recompense there, so that I can impose a trade charge on a small professional. We have a small village, fifty and sixty inhabitants, and right now I have to go back to Kilkis and Mr Katsafados in his own villages and say "You know, communities live". And they're all gonna laugh at us! He's insulting us all. It's a clear story. The state's obligation is clear. It is clear that Parliament's obligation to restore this injustice is very clear. I promise I will appeal to the administrative courts, but you know, there will be the right thing to do. The issue is how many of these businesses will have stayed alive by then, how many of the professionals from the cafés in the small villages will continue to keep their cafés and there will be a life in the entire area, in the remote villages of Kilkis prefecture. But this damage will not be the Minister tomorrow to restore or pay it, which comes today and gives me interpretations from the Greek Statistical Office or from services in a way that offends us. The Greek Statistical Service - even itself - to bring out the population of communities comes and adds or rather removes the population of villages, settlements and comes after the Ministry arbitrarily adds them and takes out the permanent residents of the communities that do not exist. It's a perfect irrationality. Let us hope at least - and I have confidence - that Greek justice will restore this injustice, which the Ministry refuses to do, to fix today. Of course, it would be more honorable than the Minister to come and say "yes, they must pay a trade fee and the inhabitants of less than five hundred inhabitants per village".
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-16-S1-commons.u43	Mr. Katasfadou, you have the floor for three minutes to answer for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-16-S1-commons.u44	Madam Minister, you really disappointed me. I have here the Minutes from the timely question by my colleague, where you say: 'Actually, we continue to say that it is an injustice which we must correct. We do not disagree on that, Mr Colleague.' Today you tell us that there is no injustice. Finally, will we continue to play this hidden and that logic of contradiction, that other things we say in the morning, but are we saying noon and other things we say in the evening about the same subject? Where is this going, Minister, in a country where society is unable to withstand all this overtaxation? You said that the issue with the islands is broken. Two minutes ago, I told you that Cythera is facing this problem. How's it broken up in the islands? I don't understand. Unless you think Cythera is not an island. So I want us to sit down and take a serious look at the problems. You know what? They prevent it, because the President of the Seed is also a doctor, it's better than healing. But at the moment we are talking about a mistake, which also affects our own government. And we come here to give a solution to all these people who are unjustly afflicted. This state must finally be founded on justice and on a level playing field rather than unfair competition, which is being created. It has the state, Mr President, to say that even if it is under five hundred people in a village, if it is a tourist destination, it will pay 600 euros, but it does not have the same care for them who are suffering in the mountain regions and which I said to you that it is five, six, seven, eight villages and it can be five hundred and ten people, with a geographically uncontrupted chaos among them, to exclude them from the trade end. Do you understand how dishonest this behavior is? All due, Minister? In that the State does not have the appropriate control mechanisms. This is because the trade charge should normally be determined on the basis of the turnover of each undertaking and not on the basis of population criteria. The state, however, is incompetent and cannot deal with this, because there is huge tax evasion, as we all know in this Chamber and they keep telling us, at a time when, Minister, we must support the region at a time when our bet is to keep the Greeks back and give life back to the region. With this attitude, with these decisions, and with these wordings, when you undo yourself, you're only wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-16-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, too. Madam Minister, you have the floor for six minutes again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-16-S1-commons.u46	In order not to create impressions, we have referred to islands under three thousand hundred inhabitants, unless it is tourist sites. I don't know the population of Kythera, I don't know if they have less than three thousand people.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-16-S1-commons.u47	They have three thousand five hundred.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-16-S1-commons.u48	We all know it's a tourist place. This is obviously the case, and that is why it will not have the obligation to pay the trade tax. From there on, following on from what I mentioned in my prototype, our Government is unfortunately called upon many times to apply a law, which is practically inapplicable, because none of those who went forward in the adoption of this law did think that the concept of "village" as a legal term - you are also legal, Mr Georganta and you said it yourself - did not exist at the time of voting on this law in our judicial system. If there was, you can tell me, so we can see. So to answer that point, and in your own words, in the debate on an earlier relevant question, that any Minister will come and make an interpretation of the law that we have voted on and we will sit down to observe the fact, it should be stressed once again that this law, as was formulated and voted on, is impossible to implement in any other way.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-16-S1-commons.u49	Let's fix it. The word 'village' to correct it and make it a 'economy'. It's so simple.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-16-S1-commons.u50	You didn't ask me that question. You didn't ask me to change the meaning of a village in the sense of a settlement. If you ask me such a timely question, I'll answer you. Irrespective of this, with regard to your current question about whether the Ministry will continue to be illegal, using the legal person of the community as a criterion for the end of trade as a criterion for the end of the trade, when they have been abolished and no longer exist, on the one hand, I can tell you that our Ministry and our government are certainly not illegal, because they apply a law which cannot be implemented otherwise. On the other hand, if we consider that the legal person of the community has been abolished and no longer exists with the current administrative division of KALIKARATIS, as you propose, then we should impose a trade charge on almost all Greek professionals. On the contrary, we are going far behind, even before the 'CARBESTRIA', in order to be as close as possible to the will of the legislator. I should also ask you right now some self-evident question: Since you consider that our Ministry and the Government are illegal with the application of the law, as interpreted in 2011 by PASOK government and in 2013 by the co-government of New Democracy - PASOK, why did you not correct this error and, as you say, illegally, throughout your governance?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-16-S1-commons.u51	You collect now, for the first time last year.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-16-S1-commons.u52	However, I will repeat once again that our Ministry has tried and continues to try to find a possible way to correct a law that, from its wording, is impossible to implement as requested. In this context we have discussed with all the relevant departments and accepted their views and proposals on the possibility of amending the legislation with a view to varying its scope, and on the possibility of applying any such differentiation to the information system of the Independent Public Revenue Authority. In addition, as it is understood, the expected financial costs of any such arrangement should be calculated. As we prove every day, our aim is to pursue the best possible fiscal, fiscal and social policy. So on the basis of the information to be taken and always taking into account the budgetary situation in which our country is situated, the only thing we can commit is that we will look at all ways of resolving this problem more fairly. And make sure that we bring about the fairest solution to the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-16-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, too, Minister. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-16-S1-commons.u54	With the consent of the House at 18.45 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday 17 October 2017, at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work, according to the agenda distributed.
