ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 7 April 2017. HOURS OF FIRST INSTANCE (Articles 129(2) and 3, 132(1) of the Rules of Procedure) Evangelos Venizelos (EPP-ED, NL) Report on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council regulation amending Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the European Communities (COM(2003) 664 - C5-0113/2003 -2003/0136(COD)) Doc: A5-0141/2003 Procedure : Consultation Debate : 09.03.2003 Vote: 09.04.2003 A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Fthiotidas of New Democracy Mr Christos Stakouras to the Minister of Finance about the financing of actions by criminal actions against the Greek State and the allocation of funds for social purposes. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the need for a direct decision for farmers under retirement. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Kilkis of New Democracy Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister for Rural Development and Food regarding the immediate payment of the beneficiaries of organic farming - livestock farming of the Kilkis County. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 694/444/2017 by Independent MEP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information on the subject "the PSE must deal with Survivor". 3. The Question No 675/31-3-2017 by MP Magnesia of the New Democracy Mr Christos Boukokouros to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the serious problem of the survival of a thousand families in South Pelion. 4. The question raised by Mr Kégeroglou, Member of the Republic of Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Kegeroglou Vassiliou to the Minister of Finance, on 'necessary and necessary legislation to remain in the special regime of some four hundred thousand farmers'. 5. The Question No 658/27-3-2017 by MP B' Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panagiotarou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject of the "return of the Olympic Games" account. 6. The Question No 661/28-3-2017 by MP Aitolokarnanias of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Maria Triantafyllou to the Minister of Environment and Energy, on the subject,'refused local communities of the Municipality of Sacred City Messology in the construction of bioliquid power plants'. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The current question by MP Evros of New Democracy, Anastasios Anastasios (Tasos) Treasury to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, concerning the exception of Evros and Samothraki from exceptional aid to milk producers in islands experiencing problems due to migratory flows. 8. The Question No 649/27-3-2017 by Independent MEP B'Athens Efstathios Panagoulis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject of "provocative use of chemicals in protesters despite the recent explicit ban on the government and the commitment of the Minister". 9. The question by No 520/23-2-2017 of the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Finance, concerning the "silence of Mr. Tsakalotou and the government's commitments". 10. The question by number 461/8-2-2017 of MP II Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Helen Zarulia to the Minister of the Interior, on the "terrorist attack by kalashnikov against men of MATs". 11. The Question No 435/2-2-2017 by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Helen Zaroulia to the Minister of Finance about the "definition of judge in the administration of the Ultrasur". 12. The Question No 367/20-1-2017 by MP Evia of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Michou to the Minister of the Interior, on the "unacceptable displacement of thirty-six thousand six hundred sixty-sixteen Greek children from day-care stations". 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The 439/6-2-2017 topical question by MP V' Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance regarding the transfer of PPC's users to companies of alternative electricity providers. 14. Observed. The question raised by Mr Georgios Amyras at number 498/20-2-2017 about the 'SIEMENS' case. 15. The Question No 620/20-3-2017 by the Deputy of Attica of the Independent Greeks Mr Konstantinos Katsikis to the Minister of the Interior about the compensation of owners of the expropriated areas for the construction of a Western Attica landfill area. 16. Observations of the Committee of the Regions Under number 625/20-3-2017, a topical question by MP II of the Centroon Association Mr.Theodoras Megalonikou to the Minister of the Interior regarding the payment of the contractors to several municipalities in Chora. 17. The Question No 622/20-3-2017 by MP Magnesia of the New Democracy Mr Christos Boukokouros to the Minister of the Interior about the payment of the transfer of students by means of special student cards by Public Transport. 18. The Question No 633/21-32017 by Independent MEP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information on the subject "delays excitement and fraud". 19. The Question No 617/20-3-2017 by MP Magnesia of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Konstantinos Steerios to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on “not the burning of waste at “AGET Hercules” Volos”. 20. The question raised by Mr Spyridonos-Adonidos Georgiadis to the Minister of Finance regarding the "meeting of the Prime Minister with representatives of the Rothschild Investment Bank". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question Question No 3877/3-2017 by MP II of the New Democracy, Mr Gerasios Giakoumatos, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, about the forest maps of Attica. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Attica of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulou to the Minister of Health about the "difference of the Ministry of Health for the Zakynthos Hospital". 3. Question No 2718/19-1-2017 by Independent MEP Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister for Immigration Policy, on the subject of "the need to take legislative measures to speed up proceedings before the courts in cases of which the application for international protection - asylum has been rejected".
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS First we will discuss the third with number 671/30-3-2017 a top-level question from the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Assent of the PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Health, "closed for years by the Polyvalent Hospital of Olympus Karpathos". This timely question will be answered by the Minister for Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos. Mr. Kremastein, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, as the Rules of Procedure stipulate, I have come to the Chair to ask the question, which I think is particularly important not for the Polyvalent Medical School in Olympus, but because in this category since the then Minister Avramopoulos has made all these upgraded medical facilities, there is still no regulation of operation and therefore operating problems. There are million-dollar machines within these hospitals, which have never actually worked and will eventually be destroyed if they have not already been destroyed because of their time and their failure. Therefore, although the responsibility does not belong to Mr Blonde, however, Minister Xanthos is dealing with the matter, because he is a Minister at the moment, as anyone else would do, would manage it. My proposal, therefore, to these doctors has also been made to other questions and still applies, namely that machines cannot function because there are no doctors, because the posts are declared but do not go to doctors. It doesn't matter why. It is important that these machines should work. They must either go to health centres or to hospitals in order to work. This is my permanent proposal. As far as the possibilities of obtaining organisations are concerned, this depends not only on the Ministry of Health, but also on the Ministry of Finance and on the country's economic situation, to be objective and clear. However, this Olympus medical office is essentially in the northern part of Karpathos and you actually see the sea on the one hand and on the other, it is on a high mountain, with a lot of tourists visitability. It is indeed a big problem because the distance is great to get a sick person from Olympus to the Pigadia. My proposal here, the simplest proposal, is, as a matter of priority, that a doctor should go there - I say, as a matter of priority, why one might go, people have not broken down - and the second is a nurse from somewhere to be seconded, if he cannot be appointed, to operate the specific hospital in Olympus Karpathos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister for Health, Mr. Andreas Blondos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u5	Mr Colleague, thank you for the question. It's the picture you describe. We have a powerful regional office, which for many years, I think, over the last five years, has been completely uncovered by doctors and by other staff. This, in my view, also shows a deficit in serious infrastructure planning that has developed over the previous period. In recent years, the years of supposed prosperity and bliss have developed infrastructure in the health system, financed by the NSRP without a prediction of how to serve and how to operate for the good of citizens. Now, what's the picture there? We have announced both in August and in December, and even to the extent of the Director, a position of qualified general practitioner. Unfortunately, there was no response. The position of a rural doctor with an outdoor term of office shall be regularly reopened. In the last notice of March there was the coverage, i.e. there was an interested doctor who did not accept the appointment. So, obviously, there is a weakness of attracting doctors, even unskilled doctors, such as farmers, even though there is also an additional allowance in this Regional Medical School for EUR 400. In other words, there has been a 50% increase in his wages. However, the position has not been accepted. In my opinion, this raises a more overall problem of incentives to cover, especially with medical potential, barren and island regions, and in particular their most vulnerable parts. Because it is true that in the health center of the island, the image is quite good in terms of staffing, that is, we currently have twelve doctors who are serving, only one of whom is a subsidiary. The rest of them are permanent doctors. There are also the rural doctors of the nearby regional hospitals, who keep up to date in the health center and from what I've been informed by the service, we have twenty-eight other people in health, nurses, etc. So what is, first of all, recently decided by the Management Committee of the Health Centre, is that once a week there will be a step-by-step visit with three doctors and a nurse at the Polypowerful Regional Medicine in Olympus. They start once a week with a doctor's gynaecologist and an ophthalmologist and a nurse. I think this will be a first small improvement in the needs of this remote population. Of course, we will continue to try to re-approach the positions. I think that perhaps with a better combination of incentives - which we must at some point discuss seriously, all the political forces, if we really want to shield these areas healthly - we need to make a significant excess of money and the other benefits that exist. Some motives have been given. And developments have taken place. We have now recently voted on the possibility of switching after five years, so that these people who are going to these areas do not feel trapped and unreservedly and scientifically and gradiently rise. I think, however, that these so far do not work satisfactorily in all regions. The effort will therefore move in that direction. And also, you know very well that the health center actually turns into a mini hospital. There is a new building financed by the NSRF. An attempt is being made to surrender in June. There are some technical loose ends with biological cleansing etc. And there's been a meeting with the Kappa Tau with the building infrastructure. We're trying to close the loose end. Preparing the establishment of a new hospital organization, which provides for additional staff with both medical and nursing staff, has also been advanced. It's taken over by the Ministry's department and I'm waiting for the final proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kremastinos has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u7	I'm glad to hear about what I hear. I'm signing them. But the practical thing - I will repeat - is that a military doctor should now go first - because the army will have nothing to do with putting a doctor in Olympus - and a nurse from the health centre. Because, even though the step is actually visiting and making a medicine which is about preventive medicine, but acid, the emergency cannot predict it and go at that time. So when there's a heart attack that's going to happen to a resident, a tourist visiting Olympus, the step can't face it. I therefore return to the proposal by the military doctor and the nurse who must be seconded. As far as the problems of remote areas, mountains and insular hospitals are concerned, it is true that there is a reluctance for doctors to go and that there is a bourgeoisie of invitations to tender. And there is an eternal opposition here in the House to the Minister in question who is developing these problems and who is responding to all that needs to be answered and listened to. But I said something to Mr Polakis on another question. There is today a cosmology with publications in New England - the other day, Jama, Circulation - a semester of the third generation telemedicine that differs from telemedicine we know because it is telemedicine. There is, in other words, tele-education from a university centre - which has to be here in Athens or elsewhere - where continuing education is to be carried out and not the training which is being done so far by companies, hence the various paradoxes. With tele-education and tele-diagnosis the professor, the experienced doctor, in any case, will be in the health center at any time to help the new doctor diagnosed. And there's going to be a teletherapy. In other words, even treatment of the infarction or a cancer patient with telemedicine can be considered. And because this is really revolutionary and it is a result - which is why I mentioned bibliography - of the third generation telemedicine, it is something you need to think about and, above all, to organise it. Because thinking about it is no doubt, we all think about it. The organization, however, is the difficult one, that is, how the brain will become the center and how the professor or the experienced doctor will be in Kastelorizo or in Olympus or elsewhere. That is what I think for Greece is a solution which must go ahead and of course we will help to the scientific level that we can achieve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, before you proceed to your dentistry, I would like to make two announcements. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that, in implementation of the resolution of the House of Parliament of 28 March 2017, the Special Parliamentary Committee of twenty-one Members, pursuant to Article 86(3) of the Constitution, was set up under Articles 153 et seq. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 3126/2003 ‘Prime responsibility of the Ministers’, as amended by Article 2 of Law 3961/2011, for a preliminary examination of the former Minister of State, Ioannis Papantoniou, on the possible execution of offences in connection with the conclusion of contracts of armaments of the Ministry of National Defence. The decision will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and will be notified to the Members mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u9	In addition, the Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice submits its report to the draft Law of the Ministry of the Interior: ‘Following the Implementation Protocol between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Russian Federation on the implementation of the Reciprocal Reciprocity Agreement between the Russian Federation and the European Community of 25 May 2006’. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes, so that you can speak for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u10	I think we are broadly agreed. I repeat that the first move is the gradual coverage and support of the staff of the Carpathos Health Center, which will soon be upgraded to a small hospital of this particular area. As regards the issue with military doctors, with the armed doctors in particular, we have a systematic co-operation with the Ministry of National Defence and we have submitted a list of needs of the health system that can be met with armed doctors. In fact, we recently had a meeting with both Mr Vitsa and Mr Kammenos. The truth is, the Armed Forces do not have much potential. Because of the leakage of scientific and medical potential abroad, the admission of doctors to the ESDCs, where they are classified, has been reduced. So there's an effort. Already covered around fifteen - if I remember well - regional medical services, the truth is, however, that the priority is in the islands that have no doctors, such as Tilos. With this motive, which we gave last year, we managed to cover more regional medical establishments and, in fact, in islands that had years to see a doctor, such as Thymana and other regions. I can explore this possibility, to see if there really is that possibility at first. On the other hand, the issue of telemedicine is very important, because I consider that a key reason why doctors do not go to these areas is not just because there are no incentives, societal and so on, but it is because they feel unsafe about handling serious incidents. Surely a telemedicine system, and even upgraded, as you say, will be able to provide greater safety for the doctor and a sense of scientific support that needs it, when it is unskilled. That's important. We'll investigate it. I don't know the sizes and the costs. I know, however, that at the moment there is a telemedicine system, which has been organised by the 2nd RCF. I think it covers fifteen to twenty regions of the Aegean. Also, there is the possibility of central hospitals of the 2nd RC, from Triasios, Nice, Attica, to provide support. This surely needs a continuous upgrade and a retraining of doctors in this new technology. Moreover, there is an attempt to strengthen the aerospace base in the Aegean. Apart from Rhodes, where it existed from the past, it has already been developed in Syros and in second year it will also be in Mytilini. The effort is to reduce both crossing times and the ability of air means to respond to urgent incidents. There is also a collaboration with the Ministry of Trade Shipping for the creation of seagoing means of transport, which will allow small islands, where maritime communication is more convenient, to quickly move a patient to a more organised centre. There is a systematic effort to strengthen the sense of public health and in these remote areas. It's not an easy case. As I said before, a package of policies and incentives is obviously beyond the role of the Ministry of Health. In other words, we need inter-ministerial cooperation. However, what I think is really at the heart of dealing with the problems of islands is the better staffing and response of the health system.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, twenty-seven students and students and three educational sessions from the 7th Xanthi High School. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u12	After the necessary change, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we proceed to the next timely question. The fifth will be discussed under number 685/3-4-2017, a top-level question by the Member of Parliament, Achaias, the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, to the Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the recognition of a pre-service to ERT SA. for officials of Presidential Decree No 164/2006. The Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, Mr. Pappas, will answer. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, as you know, by Presidential Decree 164/2006, the Presidential Decree of Paulopoulos, as you know, was employed by contracts that were constantly renewed and were converted into indefinite time. That's what happened with ERT. But here at ERT we have two issues: the first issue is the paradox, that the time that the contracts were awarded and which was renewed, while it was necessary, for these contracts to be converted into contracts of indefinite duration, has not been calculated as a pre-service, and that is the paradox, that is to say, once it has been recognised that this time has taken place, it has not been considered a pre-service. Secondly, apart from this paradox, there is also a division, that those who had a pre-service to the ERT did not recognize this pre-service, while their contract with the ERT was converted into an indefinite period of time. On the other hand, those who had a service in the private sector recognized this pre-service in the ERT for up to ten years, as well as in another public sector. Only those workers who had a pre-service to the ERT were excluded. This is absurd, paradoxical. There is no uniform approach, it is a distinction for these workers. It is therefore reasonable that the specific workers in the ERT should be recognised as a real pre-service and treated equally with the other colleagues who come from either the private sector or other public bodies. In this respect, the Government must, in our view, ensure that this fair request is settled.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Karathanasopoulos, you are giving me the opportunity to say that we are happy to discuss problems of this type for ERT, because in 2013 there was an operation of dismantling it, in order to serve very specific interests. Of course, that government fully respected its commitment to reopen the ERT. However, this does not mean that we were automatically able to get rid of her inherited problems. ERT itself has six or seven, if I'm not mistaken, different ways in which people are part of wages. The ERT right now has to tell you that it wins the day-to-day bet and, above all, that it has fallen out of a criticism we have heard when we said that ERT will reopen it, that it is economically unsustainable. ERT has multiple tasks than any other private television station, many more programs, radio stations and a project that other private stations are unable to produce. Of course, without increasing the reward fee, it is in a position to have positive results both for the previous year and for the year that has just ended. We are in the direction of being able to streamline the operation of the company further. In other words, where there were job gaps, which, unfortunately, the administration was forced and forced to cover with contracts with external companies, we must move on to the necessary staff recruitment so that the costs would also be reduced for the company and the employees would be better paid. Now, starting with me, I would like to agree with you that it is really paradoxical at least for the two years of pre-service, while it produces a legitimate result when it comes to converting the contract into an indefinite contract, not being recognised as a pre-service. We will really be taking initiatives here too soon to resolve the matter. Let us clarify, of course, what we are talking about. The workers employed under contract contracts in the ERT abolished have been converted into contracts of indefinite duration. For journalists, a service of up to ten years has been recognised, which was carried out in the ERT abolished, on the basis of the relevant project contracts, which has been taken into account for both the basic salary and the three-year allowance. That is where I must say that the collective agreement between the ESA and the ERT, which existed before Law 4024/2011, was taken into account, i.e. the single wage law. In the case of other staff, and in accordance with the general staff regulations, a service which had been carried out in the private sector up to ten years, was recognised only for the purpose of calculating the allowance. A previous service was also recognised in the public sector, but only under a contract of employment. In other words, the problem you are pointing out in your question is that the service of project contracts has not been recognised. Under existing legislation, this would only be possible if the staff had been selected through competitive procedures. So, if the accusations I have just mentioned are excluded, we are talking about six hundred and seventy-three specialists from other journalists who raise very reasonable issues and requests. I repeat that the issue of the two-year period must be moved very quickly and solved. For the rest of the years, because there are still legal proceedings and appeals for workers, I would like to call on all interested parties in good faith to come to a dialogue table to find a solution, which I think can satisfy everyone. Because my information tells me that the financial burden on the company will not be enormous in order to cover this request too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Minister. MEP George Vayonas is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad for the period from 14 April to 21 April 2017. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u17	The House therefore approved the requested permission. MEP Mr Ioannis Maniatis seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad for the period from 7 April to 9 April 2017 for his participation in the ‘International Paraliamentary Conference Integration and Disintegration of the European Union’. The European Performance of South East Europe.’ Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u18	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much, Mr President. Of course, Minister, I will not go into the more comprehensive issues relating to ERT and the progress of things. There are a number of comments about the work produced by the ERT, and there are even complaints from the JRC, such as the recent conference on the Communist Party of Greece and the end of which was not even covered by the ERT's central bulletin. I am going through all this as well as the fact - although this is the main one - that the viability of the ERT cannot be achieved at the expense of the Greek people's layers, with what we pay for ERT, nor at the expense of the workers. In that, of course, you must not normally object either. I understand from your answer at least that the two years relating to the time necessary for the conversion of contracts into contracts in indefinite time will be recognised immediately. On the other hand, your position recognises the reasonableness of the matter, that there can be no discrimination between those who worked in the private sector who recognized them for up to ten years of pre-service and those who worked in the ERT and who were not recognized by them at all. In addition, regardless of whether journalists were settled in their own contract, we believe that you must quickly overcome this issue, because we know very well that of the six hundred and seventy-three employees in the remaining categories, which are concerned with this regulation, several of them have been brought before the courts and have been won and recognized by the pre-service. On the basis of what you said, if you think that there is a need for legislative intervention, an amendment, you should go ahead with it. In our view, the government must quickly, in cooperation with the workers, of course - and I am sure it is up to them to proceed with such a procedure - to proceed immediately to normalisation, because you understand very well that recourse to the courts and costs for them, and it is a timely process. Since you have also considered - and you have made it quite clear - that this is not a question of the viability of the company, so what is the best thing to do quickly, through the debate with the workers themselves, in the regulation of this matter? Therefore, all time should be recognised as a pre-service for all other employees in the ERT. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u20	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u21	Mr Karathanassopoulos, I think that ERT has the peculiarity of making its content of parliamentary control and that is positive in the weapons that a public service broadcaster can have. For the event that you mentioned in relation to the projection of the JRC conference, we also contacted the stakeholders of your party and we dealt with this issue. I say this not as a worthy of this fact, but in order for the House also to understand that the ERT has an obligation towards both the political parties and the Greek citizen to operate transparently. And there's a way of controlling her. Others are uncontrollable. In private channels, things are uncontrollable and I hope and imagine that it has already started a move with the new National Broadcasting Council to get things in place. I also want to say one more thing, because you also made a reference to the reward fee. The reward fee is as much as NERIT, or three euros. We do not intend to reduce it, as Mr Mitsotakis says, to one and a half euros. We're not doing that. We know that in the difficult times we live for some households is a burden. It is much lower, I must tell you - dramatically lower in some cases - than what citizens pay in other countries of the European Union, but in any case it is a cost that is paid and, instead of a channel such as NERIT - God will make this channel and God will do so - at the moment we have five channels, ERT1, ERT2, ERT3, ERT WORLD and ERT HD, six radio stations and all the radio stations in Greece. It is an agency, it is not a television station. The ERT has too many activities, which a private person, I would say, could not think of being profitable and developing. So, in order to conclude the debate, I would like to reiterate that we consider it quite obvious that the two-year period, which produced the legal result of changing work contracts to contracts of indefinite duration in contracts of indefinite duration, must be taken into account immediately and should sit with the workers in order to find a solution which, as I said, does not jeopardise the company's viability. The company's viability from other things was at risk, not from fair or less equitable demands from employees. We must therefore find a solution. Of course, you will allow me to tell you that, even if we are going to avoid or be able to make the single payroll law, it is not something I can commit at this time. However, I believe that there is, in the context of good understanding and good atmosphere with workers too, a great opportunity for this issue to be resolved. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Minister. The second question will now be discussed under number 674/31-3-2017, the first-round question of the new Republic of Athens, Olga Kefaloyannis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the background of a draft law and its implications in the field of culture. The Minister for Culture and Sport will answer Mr. Connordou. Mrs. Kefaliannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Film production, Minister, has an undeniably heavy value for culture and can add development benefits to the Greek economy and society if it is organised, of course, with a strategy and vision. Since 1980, many efforts have been made. There have been legislative initiatives which, despite any difficulties or failures, have nonetheless laid the foundations and framework of the rules and principles for the production of films. The state must therefore continue to work to solve the problems in the field, with the aim - among other things - of strengthening and developing all kinds of Greek cinematographic art, attracting foreign producers, increasing resources, making private investment, improving cultural and commercial promotion and distributing Greek films, dealing with bureaucratic problems, promoting the Greek film heritage and strengthening new producers, especially now that the Greek cinema has been able to produce a new dynamic generation of artists that are diverse abroad, with significant artistic creations. Unfortunately, on your day, however, on the occasion of and the resignation of the chairman of the board of directors of the Hellenic Film Center (EKK), the Foreign Affairs Government's handling of Greek cinema came to the news. I'm explaining. It is not understood what the rationale of granting the competence of the Hellenic Cinema Centre is for the National Centre for Audiovisual Media and Communications (ECE) on the implementation of the aid for cinema. This is done by the Ministry of Digital Policy, by Mr. Papapas, at the same time as you, as Minister of Culture, announce that the Greek Film Centre is funded by a 2m-euro fund. Here I would like to remind you that, under Regulation 651/2014 of the European Union, the aid, to which Mr Pappa's draft law refers, relates exclusively to cultural products and is granted exclusively for cultural purposes. Madam Minister, will the end of film policy go from the Ministry of Culture to the Ministry of Digital Policy? What is the case with the Greek Film Center, about the administration of the Greek Film Center and the resignation of the president and what he denounces in his letter? Do you abolish it or not? And if not, why do you deceive it? What is the case with the draft law? Has a prior documentation study been carried out? Madam Minister, the responsibility for the degradation process, not only of the Greek Film Center, but also of the Greek cinema in general, is yours alone.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u24	Minister Connordus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs. Kefaliannis, I really do not understand how you came to the conclusion that the Greek Film Center is being abolished. I do not think that there are such signs, and it is really very displeased for his culture and his people at such a difficult time, which are having difficulties, to give catastrophic proportions to everything that comes up and, indeed, to project it as risky manipulations for culture. I assure you that very consciously, with great care and work we do as a Ministry, but also as a government the best possible for Greek culture. We are constantly in contact with the members of the Hellenic Film Centre, to resolve the issues that concern it for its better functioning. We never abandon film policy for our country or the Greek Film Center. On the contrary, we are struggling to give a new vision to the cinema, leaving behind the opaque functions of grants from older years. We are interested in art, we are interested in talented creators, we are interested in strengthening good producers based on their quality and artistic value. The Greek Film Center, I assure you, is and remains the responsible body for implementing cultural policy for cinema. There is no intention, nor will it be abolished. With regard to the resignation of Mr. Lentaris, the President of the Greek Cinema Centre, was already at the disposal of the previous Minister of Culture, Mr. Baltas, on personal grounds, academic career and the President's desire to develop an artistic work. However, he was asked to remain until the procedures were completed and I did so, and I would like to thank publicly the President of the Hellenic Film Centre for the work he has done all this time to rebuild the Greek Film Center. So he will be in full formation and will continue his work. Economics: The Greek Film Centre will normally receive its regular grant from the Ministry of Culture, which will be, as it was in 2016 and 2017, increased due to the abolition, imposed by the memorandum, the special Cinema Tax, the famous “minimum”. In addition, I would like to stress that the Greek Film Centre is managed by appropriate staff. In addition to the Director-General, he has appointed three directors with very important positions that have been vacant for years and also has been looking through fixed-term ADP staff to meet his temporary needs. In particular, address for the Hellenic Film Commission, address for production development and address for promotion of Hellas Film. So, Mrs. Kefaliannis, how does it involve, how do you conclude that the Greek Film Centre is being abolished or closed? Now, let me refer to the draft law of the Ministry of Digital Policy. There is no question of grabbing or replacing responsibilities and conflict with the Ministry of Culture. That should be made clear. We are working together and for the good of the country and therefore of culture. This bill is in formation and consultation. We are in contact with the relevant Ministry and form it on the basis of the role of the responsibilities and the mission that each institution has. Mrs. Kefaliannis, cooperation is not a disaster. It's progress for the public interest. In this respect, the EEMO, in cooperation with the Ministry of Development, is trying to create an additional financial instrument to strengthen the production of audiovisual works by Greek and international. In the new era audiovisual works, as we know, are not just films. They're television products, serials, gay videos, animation, science fiction works. There is a need for additional funding. Why should this be prevented or condemned? The Hellenic Film Center has been fully responsible for the creation of Film Commission and, as you know, consists of a package of actions and policies and has been moving in this direction from the previous year. Our vision is to have the appropriate legislative framework in good time so that Greece can attract foreign productions. Simplify and accelerate licensing, especially financial incentives and the appropriate lobbying to convince creators that Greece can be a country friendly to cinema. For these purposes, the Greek Film Center has been constantly working with the co-authorities - already since June 2016 - while continuing its main work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u26	Mrs. Kefaliannis, you have the floor again for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u27	Madam Minister, I hope you have read Mr Lentaris' letter, because his reasons for resignation are not personal, but extremely serious and they normally require the immediate intervention of the Ministry. In any case, you told us, Minister, that the exercise of film policy will continue to be carried out by the Ministry of Culture and we hope that you will be confirmed in the next period. Because, unfortunately, you're used to us in surprises that cancel what you're telling us here. In addition, we have recent examples. It's incomprehensible that you only thought of the government assigning powers of the Ministry of Culture to another Ministry. We suggest that you consider whether Mr Pappas wishes to be responsible for enriching his propaganda machine. Really, what are his motives? Why would he want the deregulation of the Greek Film Center? Would the control of cinematographic policy possibly add to it another manipulation tool, especially after the large fiasco with television licences and the supposed regulation of the television space it promoted? Madam Minister, for us, there are clear positions on film production, which are part of a wider development strategy and above all on reasonable grounds - and I am explaining. The Civic Opposition says "yes" to a structured modern law, which will give tax and financial incentives to private investors, to invest in Greek film productions, but which should be done under specific conditions: in particular, with the cooperation of the Ministry of Culture with the Ministry of Development. Secondly, after a substantial dialogue has taken place with the relevant bodies. Thirdly, after a thorough study of the best practices of other countries that have successfully adopted and implemented such laws. And fourthly, with a correct assessment of the weaknesses of Law 3905/2010, in order to correct them and thus to ensure that the law can be made simple and, above all, directly applicable in order to benefit Greek productions. In any case, however, Minister, we say 'no' to the possible departure of the Greek Film Centre from the Ministry of Culture. For cinema is, especially in recent years, the tip of the spear in the export of Greek culture. It is not possible when Greek films are screened and awarded at the major international film festivals, such as Venice, Berlin, Cannes, Lokarno, we are going to discuss the cut-off of the Greek Film Center by the Ministry of Culture. That's beyond any logic. Truly, if the awards of the Greek films at the major international festivals are not an export of modern culture, then what is it? Madam Minister, please understand, at last, that policy - in our very strong field of culture - cannot be conducted with skin analyses and surface speeches that expose our country and the institution you represent. Understand, even now, that the Ministry of Culture is a productive ministry. Culture can offer a larger turnover, give birth to new jobs, create new wealth with multiplier benefits that our country needs. Madam Minister, you are getting away from the small-party claws, from the wooden political speech, because in politics, at the end, we are all judged by our actions and not by the wishes and communism.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u28	Please, Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u29	Mrs Kefaliannis, thank you for your remarks. However, I really do wonder, very much, how the Greek Film Center was operating in recent years after the 2010 Law was passed. Why am I saying that? In particular, they lacked very important links to the application of the law. The law, which was in the right direction, had not been implemented. Section managers, lack of rules of procedure and organograms, institutionalised operating rules of the organisation, confusion of responsibilities, opaque management functions. During this recent period the Hellenic Film Centre has already done the following: financial control of the period 2011-2015, preparation of internal rules of operation and staffing of directors' posts, strengthening transparency, rationalisation and simplification of the procedures governing the relations of the centre with directors and producers. That's not a wooden reason, Mrs. Kefaliannis. That's work. It has strengthened the educational work through the establishment of a training and training office. He has already saved resources and has dealt with finding new ones. It has already been transferred to a new building recently with a saving of EUR 75,000 per year. It also worked out the latest nature, the relevant tax incentives and the legal framework for the Hellenic Film Commission. The funds were also secured for this purpose. It is based on international practices, as you quite rightly said, and will host structured information on studios, production companies and all stakeholders. The first study on the Hellenic Film Commission was presented at an interministerial meeting in good and harmonious cooperation with the other Ministries, held on 23 June. This initiative has helped to create a framework for creative cooperation and dialogue with the relevant ministries. A programme of training grants has been set up for all specialties. Therefore, the issue that has arisen with the resignation of Mr. Lentaris, a part of which relates to issues such as disagreements and the confusion of competence between the members of the Board and the address, is a phenomenon which we have seen for many years characterise the Hellenic Film Center. I can assure you, however, that this issue has already been launched and will be settled immediately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, too. Before we move on, I have to inform you that there will not be any debate on a number of different questions. The first question under number 680/3-4-2017, the second question of the Achaia Parliamentary Assembly of the Radical Left Coalition, Mrs Athanasia Anagnostopoulou to the Minister of Health, on improving the legislative framework for involuntary hospitalisation in mental patients, will not be discussed due to a blockade by the Member's questioner. The second question under number 675/31-3-2017 of the New Democracy MP, Christos Boukos, on the serious problem of the survival of a thousand families in southern Pelion, will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the relevant Minister, Mr. Famelos, who will be outside Athens and will be redefined for discussion. The fourth question under number 676/31-3-2017, the second question raised by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaos Michou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, concerning "the retention of part of the OPEKEPE grants due to the inability to contribute to the General Organisation for Improvements (GOEB), will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister for Development and Food Mr.Apostolos, who will be outside Athens and will be redefined for discussion. The first question by No 446/18-10-2016 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the serious problems faced by farmers, will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister for Development and Food Mr. Apostolos, who will be outside Athens and will be redefined for discussion. The 11th question under number 556/6-3-2017, the second question of the Athens MP, George Amyras, will not be discussed by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Juliarakis, on the assumption by the Greek State of the outstanding loan contract of the Athens Concert Hall (MOMA), because it will not be discussed by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Juliarakis, on the grounds of the burden of work and will be redefined for discussion. The twelfth under number 402/27-1-2017 a topical question by MP I of the Thessaloniki Union of Centrals Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister for Health, concerning the reduction of the cost of diagnostic tests for breast cancer, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Polakis on the grounds of the workload and will be redefined for discussion. The seventh question under number 645/24-3-2017 of the Second Cycle of the MP Halkidiki of the New Democracy Mr. Georgios Vagionas to the Minister of Economy and Development, concerning the problems facing the bakers industry in Greece, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development Mr. Haritsis on the grounds that he will be outside Athens and will be redefined for discussion. The tenth under number 648/24-3-2017 a topical question from the Evian MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaos Michou to the Minister of Health, on the'strengthening blockage of the fulfillment of a covenant, which provides for the establishment of an oncological clinic in Chalkida', will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Polakis (cause: it is not discussed) and will be redefined for discussion. Also, we will not discuss the fourth question with No 670/28-3-2017, first question by MP Pella of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Sachinides, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, about the rapid increase in unemployment in Kastoria at the SYRIZA Government, due to the absence of the relevant Minister abroad. Similarly, the sixth question will not be discussed under number 650/27-3-2017, a topical question by the Member of the Dodecanese Coalition of the Radical Left, Ilia Kamaterou to the Minister of Finance, on the convention with the agents, due to the absence of Minister Tsakalotou abroad. Also, there will be no debate on the eighth Question No 647/24-3-2017, on the second question of the Athens MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotarous to the Minister of Finance, on the legislation to extend approved expenses beyond the hospitals due to the absence of Minister Tsakalotou abroad. Similarly, the ninth question will not be discussed under number 644/23-3-2017 in the second cycle of the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject "The Government is preventing the investment for the exploitation of the former airport of Greek", due to the absence of Minister Tsakalotou abroad. Also, the first question under number 679/3-4-2017 will not be discussed in the context of the first cycle of MP I Thessaloniki's Radical Left Coalition Mr.Alexandros Triantafylides to the Minister of Finance, on the subject of "First Camp Kordas: Augmentation of the area of super-local park", due to the absence of Minister Tsakalotou abroad.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u31	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u32	Here, Mr. Panayotare, you have the floor. You want the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u33	For one, a minute and a half, Mr President. Thank you. For some months about - I do not know exactly, we have lost the account - we have tabled a timely question about myrtle Myrtle Papadomielaki, the girl who was brutally abused by a Pakistani in 2012 in Paros. We will see - you will all see, I imagine, those who follow the news in part - that the little girl Myrtoe and her mother were in Messinia the other day and there was a bazaar to raise money for a oxygen machine. What we want to ask the Minister - and we do not know why, for six months, the Minister, the Deputy Minister, no one can come anymore - is why there is such racism against the small Myrtus. Because if Myrtoo were not called Myrto and had a Muslim name and she was called Esme, she was a illegal immigrant and was abused by a Greek, she would have fallen by all the services of the state - and not only - to help her, to give her money, as was the case in the past and with another lady, who is now also a Member of the European Parliament with hundreds of thousands of euros. It is unacceptable that Myrtus' mother should ask for the simplest, money that is available and committed - because the legislation does not allow it - so that she can get it, to improve a little bit her daughter's ruined life. It is unacceptable and it is a pity for the Minister. It's not even the money. It is simply that some legislation should be made. They don't even come to answer that question. Too bad and we're very sorry for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u34	We move to the third with number 673/30-3-2017 a topical question by MP II Athens of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the effective abolition of widow's pensions. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u35	Mr President, how did the Prime Minister say it days ago? 'It is time...' - says - 'The Greek people to feed fruit'!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u36	It's gonna work.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u37	Yes, instead of saying how to act, he said, "to nourish"! Let's see now how the Prime Minister nourishes a piece of citizens associated with the country's insurance system: Katrugalos Law, May 2016 Law, Article 12, widow's pensions. The reduction of widow's pensions to a large extent has been one of the troika's proposals since 2009, Mr President. Because when I make my criticisms and have a solid basis, I articulate and better my arguments, I would like to tell you that, in this case, the criticism I am making is made and on the advantage that these proposals for saving by unhappy people, people who have hit life, I have not accepted them. I didn't accept them! And the dialogue between those times is registered and I do not need any other witness in this regard. The Government of supposedly sensitive and negotiated with Article 12 of the Katrugalou Insurance Act has agreed, Mr President, to cut the widow's pensions by means of a mechanism. I don't have time to play him. On the main lines, if there is no minor child, a lady who has been subjected to this kind of strike in the family and who has no appropriate age, does not have a small aid - because she was a small help - from the pension of her husband and has to be sixty-seven years old to get it. There is a very big political issue here - in my dentistry - and also a very serious technical issue, Mr President. With the technical theme I will close my prototype by asking: Mr Petropoulou, in the report of the General Accounting Office of the State, savings from this measure are EUR 177 million, which extends to 2016 at EUR 11 million, this year at EUR 48 million, in 2018 at EUR 63 million and in 2019 at EUR 55 million. I would like you to tell me, please very much, before I politicize the issue, as I believe I have to do, how many cases the General Accounting Office has calculated in collaboration with you to reach the sum of about EUR 180 million and, because 2016 has passed, I want you to tell me how many cases have been subject to this slaughter regulation in 2016 and how many cases have been subjected to the first quarter of 2017, according to the information you have. If the measure is a cost of EUR 180 million on paper, but in practice savings are much smaller, you may have to think again - we propose this, but I expect to see what you will answer - that this measure is useless, that you are killing people without the benefit you expect. I'm not saying that, if the benefit is great, the measure is right. The measure is abstract and you need to get it back. But I want to know exactly what your data have recorded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, too. The State Secretary for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity will answer Mr. Petropoulos. Mr. Petersburg, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. It is a very sensitive issue for us and with sensitivity, in the face of the claims made by those who have called for such measures, which were not able to accept, suddenly, the setting of such limits and such rules for the pensioning of a widow, which made the situation of the people who were subject to this situation dramatically. However, these consequences, Mr Loverdos, are the consequences of commitments made by the country as early as 2010, when there was no such situation in the years that have taken place. In 2010 we had 2.5 billion cash in social security funds, while at the end of 2014, we had cash - not a budget deficit of EUR 1.3 billion. In such circumstances we were caught in the truly great trap that was created for Greece, due to the situations and policies that had precedented. I would recommend that the opposition support what one of the five members of the German Government's Finance Committee, one of the five "white" German economists, supported three days ago at a conference in Greece, at which I was present, to hear him say that, while Spain has the largest budget deficits all over the world, it was not in the forced situations in which Greece existed with the previous memorandums, it should only have surpluses. Spain has the power to continue to have its deficits. So it can have growth and results so that it can better cope with its situation. Greece did not have such a chance. So the question of widow's pensions has also been raised, and what has happened is, after negotiations, to accept the limits which apply in France, as well as the limits that apply in general to best practice in the European Union. In such economic circumstances we could not support the maintenance of a treaty where pensions were granted independently of age limits. But the truth is that the sums you refer to are predictions, because we do not know when death will come. Besides, the forecasts of the social security deficits have been disproved. We have surpluses. It is a question of policies that we want to achieve in order to improve conditions. We managed to maintain all the widow's pensions that were paid until the beginning of Law No4387 and increased the pension rate paid to minors, from 20% to 25% and up to 100% of the pension granted to the deceased parent. I shall continue in my dentistry, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Loverdos, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u41	The Minister's first answer is revealing. It really comes as a surprise to hear that for the towel of widow's pensions, there was discretionary power and choice of the government. Among other things, he preferred it because, he says, France also applies. I would like to ask the Minister if there are 23% in France too, and if in France a 50-year-old woman is easy to find a job. Is it the same? Why did you make that choice while you say it makes you sad? So I was told by some ladies of those who have the huge problem that I encountered. They told me you were, and sad, a game of supposedly negotiation and sadness that's always played. Here, you come to the House and say it was your choice. Anyway, sad, uncomfortable, what does it mean? I killed her because I loved her? What is this, Minister? I asked you the technical dimensions in my prototype. You don't have those either. I asked you in 2016 how many cases were followed, to see if the General Accounting Numbers that came out of it and you are correct and accurate. I feel them too much, too much. That is why I ask you, so as to put specific proposals, but also to see how far you have, within your miserable policy, been able to move from now on. But you didn't give me any numbers. You talk to me about conferences, about other things, but not about what I'm asking you. But you are the ones who from changing the insurance architecture you would save money and would not make cuts. You fooled the world. You're the one who's gonna play the bullies and the markets would dance. Now you're talking about games the best players play, we're gonna play the best players, etc. What did the Prime Minister say the other day? Let's actually go. Your painful reality is opposing you, not us. We simply express truths that have arisen from your governance. The truth is, Mr President, that this ministry does not have a Minister. Mrs Ahchioglu is a minister of the so-called negotiation. He's not coming to the House and he's not answering. This is where the Undersecretary has been asked: have you saved the money from this terrible measure and reversed this measure? He's not answering. Is that a measure they imposed on you? He's not answering. It says in an indirect way that it's their choice. Referred to in 2010. In 2010 it was me, Minister, and I rejected this measure, dear. Paradoxicals don't favor you here. You are told by the person who has experienced this. And now that you have the picture of the application of your insurance policy and the picture of the many problems, do you have to send a message to the particular category of people, to our fellow citizens who are suffering? Are you aware of the consequences of the measure and the possibilities you have to make a change? Is such a change in your choice or not, to know where we are?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u42	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u43	Mr. Loverdo, you didn't have to be in the government right now, to guess what would happen. There would certainly be a catastrophe for all rights and social security and work. And that is because the numbers are ruthless. The social account taken of when we took over the government for your own work led to these results. And you obviously did not understand in my first speech or you did not want to understand why you are playing with words that'macabre', as you said, is a result of the'macabre' commitments with which you committed the country over the years, contrary to what happened with other countries, which had an even greater budget deficit. That is why I mentioned the example of Spain. At least let you articulate as a opposition, what one of the five wise economic sciences in Germany say, which supports the position of the government and our arguments. Do it in the process we have. Because this negotiation process is present, so that the Greek Parliament can hear the support for the positions which other than Greece support for the benefit of the Greek people and the country, so that we can actually have another development. These commitments in respect of widow's pensions have been made precisely because of the sizes which have been formed in social security. I told you that we had 2.5 million cash, i.e. a surplus, in 2010 and 1.3 billion deficits, i.e. 3.8 billion close to 4 billion is this amount, apart from the 50 billion already lost by the reduction in pensions. And to say so much more specifically, 54 billion have been missing from social security all this time. So it was an achievement under these circumstances that we retain the rights to widowhood, as at least we managed to maintain them, in the face of these suffocating pressures and the negligible figures resulting from the management of social security and the economy of the previous years. We therefore do not pay tribute to the fact that we have succeeded in improving matters for widow's pensions. But we have a right to say that we resisted other claims. That is why I said that we have set at least the limits applicable to Europe's average. And what was in force for widow's pensions in Greece is the ones in France, which has a remarkable social security system. But we need to take measures - and I have said and will do so - to support people who will fall into this unfortunate situation, because no one knows what will happen in the future in terms of the lives of their people. And that's why we didn't have any numbers - and that's what I said before - to know exactly what the expenditure would be. A provision is that I hope it will not be confirmed. But to the extent that happens, we will take measures. There is a preconceived, as a decision, framework of support, which refers to supporting the work of those who are in such a bad position and those who are in a widow's state, to step up their employment with various measures. These measures too will be taken at another level. What I've said, we'll do it in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, too, for completing the question. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the educational programme of the "Corporate of Democracy" organized by the Foundation of Parliament, sixteen students and students and two educational attendants from the 16th Elementary School of Nea Ionia. The House, guys, welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We move to the fifth, with number 686/3-4-2017, a topical question for the second cycle of the Athens MP of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Christos Katsotis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Inadmissible service conditions for firefighters at the regional airports of "FRAPORT". The Deputy Minister of Interior will answer Mr. Toskas. Please, Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, recently as a JRC, we tabled a memorandum to you and to Mr Skourletis on the serious and acute problems faced by the personnel of the Firehouse, on the administration of the regional airports of 'FRAPORT' and of the Capelou Group, which, as you know, has also provided a EUR 1 billion loan to pay the price for privatisation. At our meeting, we denounced a series of serious deficiencies in the infrastructures of the facilities at airports and in the fire-fighting services. To this end, we have demanded that the government suspend the transfer and transfer of airports, because there was still no preparation. We have demanded that the government, even now, take immediate measures to cover all the costs of housing and feeding for all firefighters transferred to meet the needs of the Fire Corps in accordance with the relevant Presidential Decree. We also called on the Government to take responsibility for the drivers of the Civil Aviation Service, who are currently serving at the fourteen airports granted to 'FRAFORT', to maintain their jobs and wage rights. There have been commitments, Minister, to take action. However, we have seen that no measures have been taken, particularly for the housing and feeding of fire extinguishers. On the contrary, Minister, we were told that the training of the last series at Eleftherios Venizelos Airport was completed on 31 March, and the order was to present the 1st April at the regional airports. This resulted in about a hundred firefighters who completed their training at "Eleftherios Venizelos" at noon on Friday 31 March, not even taking their personal items with them. They were forced to travel without even having a driving sheet. We were told, of course, that they will be sent by service to the services where they were commanded to report. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Several of them at regional airports found that the facilities and fire-fighting infrastructures are non-existent, as is the case at the airports of Thera, Kefalonia, Mytilini, Skiathos, Mykonos. The essential thing is that they went and returned at their own expense. The responsibilities are great. I believe that indifference will exacerbate the situation of firefighters being transferred to regional airports. We are asking whether the government will take immediate action so that the situation of firefighters, particularly housing and feeding, is now somewhat improved, because it is the most serious issue facing economic relief from travel expenses, without road sheets at their transfer airports. I imagine, Minister, that the expenses of the firefighters to go and return will be covered by the service. I believe your reply will also contain the coverage of this request.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u46	Thank you. I have the honour to announce to the House that Ministers for the Environment and Energy, Internal Affairs, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Finance, Administrative Reconstruction and Deputy Ministers for Rural Development and Food, Environment and Energy have tabled a draft law on 5-4-2017: 'Amendments to the provisions of forestry legislation and other provisions'. The above draft law has been classified by the Government as urgent. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u47	Mr President, Mr Katsotis, the need sometimes also requires the urgency and the degree of speedy implementation of certain obligations. The need for fast operation of the fourteen regional airports for reasons of start-up in the correct time of tourist travel required the movement of certain fire extinguishers in order to complete the composition provided for in these fire extinguishers at airports so that these airports would acquire the status, the status of the status provided for by European data, in order to then facilitate and allow, if you like, the movement and flights of aircraft. That is why a hundred and thirty-five firefighters of different degrees were moved without their will at these fourteen regional airports, with criteria such as the least possible impact, such as in the case of singles, etc. At the moment, the main problem is focused on Mykonos and Thera of Santorini, where, indeed, the rents are more expensive. There is indeed a problem with housing, especially in Mykonos where there is no fire station for now. Our effort is to serve the needs with the new composition and a fire station in Mykonos, in a way, but also the needs of the airports. That is why sixty days will be given off-site, which means about EUR 200 per month to each firefighter, so that these needs arising from their movement can be met. At the same time, in Santorini, we concentrate on these two airports, because I told you that there are the biggest problems. I'll tell you about the rest. Tomorrow morning, the Chief of the Fire Corps will go to Santorini to discuss with the mayor and other local bodies what can be done about the housing of these people. There is a temporary solution, but these people are going for a longer period and, therefore, we need to find something more permanent. We are trying in this way to reduce the impact and, at the same time, to seek space for housing to serve these people, exactly where the particular problems exist. There are problems at some other airports, but it's not as critical as these two places I told you about. As far as travel expenses are concerned, it is not exactly the case, because each firefighter took the amount of EUR 700 in the form of transfer costs. Therefore, the transfer costs will be covered. As far as the time of warning is concerned, it is not accurate that they had twenty-four hours but about twenty-five days. It's not enough. I've been through this personally, and I know how hard it is for someone to move. But you know that there is a more general need to cover the airports that prevailed in this case. But we are trying to reduce the impact as far as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u48	Thank you. Please, Mr Kattotis, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, it is well known that airports have been privatized for a long time and have gone to 'FRAPORT'. The terms of the contract signed are also known - you know it, we will also present you with a document to give it to us - which commit the government to implementing certain regulations. We therefore believe that the delay is in the government's hands and cannot worsen the position of these workers, whose wages are already too low and the cost of this transfer and of finding a home or feeding will worsen their family budget even further. They break out anyway, because people move from different regions of Greece. You can understand that the rent in Santorini or Mykonos, Skiathos and elsewhere is not 200 euros a month that they will get more. The rent's a lot more than what you're paying for. But it's a different matter. The point is that you are committed, they say, through the contract - and you must say if that is the case - that the contract contains this condition, that the company in question, namely the 'FRAPORT' and the Capelos, should be exempted from any major accident and that it should be charged to the Greek State and to the Government. If there is such a term in the contract, it is very important - and that is why we want you to give us the contract - and you should re-examine that term, to renegotiate. Because there can be no responsibility in the company for these accidents, if any, and transfer them to the Greek state, which will pay further for anything that happens. This means that there are no health measures for workers, customers, passengers and so on. This is an important issue you need to resolve. We believe that we should address the question of housing and feeding immediately. Until then, Minister, the transfer of these workers should be suspended. Because, as we know, today or tomorrow, they will have to go back to the airports. Until this issue has been resolved, the transfer of these workers should be suspended.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u50	Thank you. Minister, you still have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u51	I'm going to need less, Mr. President. Mr Katsotis, you know that very soon airport operations will begin under the new regime. This requires us to be prepared to serve airports, within the framework of a contract which has important obligations on the other hand. Let me remind you that 10.5 million euros a year will be given by the company to the state corps for these services. At the same time, we have ensured that, as I told you, Mykonos has no fire station, the other needs of the island can be served. In any case, however, we must ensure the proper services with the right standards to serve flights, to serve tourism. I think we all understand it'll be for the common good. Tourism flows will significantly increase in our country with the proper functioning of these airports. As far as the contract is concerned, there is no objection on our part to the part concerning the services of the Ministry which I have the responsibility of informing you. Of course, there are issues that are resolved along the way. I told you that it is a matter that is the main effort of the Ministry these days. As I told you, tomorrow morning the Chief of the Santorini Fire Corps will be going to Santorini. I was talking to Mayor Mykonos yesterday. These are issues we are trying to reduce the impact on these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty-seven students and students and two educational attendants from the 173th Municipal School of Athens. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] That concludes the debate on topical and urgent questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK A sole debate and a vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Interior: ‘Definition of an Implementation Protocol between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Russian Federation on the implementation of the Re-entry Agreement between the Russian Federation and the European Community of 25 May 2006’. The draft was adopted by a majority in the Standing Committee. In particular, they voted in favour of SYRIZA. New Republic has declared reservation. Democratic Compact PASOK - DIMAR declared reservation. Golden Dawn declared reservation. The Communist Party of Greece, against. ANEL, in favour. Centroon Union, in favour. The river, for. It is therefore introduced for discussion in Parliament under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure. In other words, according to the article, those who object to the ratification of this agreement may take the floor if they so wish. Does a colleague want to take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u54	I, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u55	Mrs Vulture, you have no objection but reservation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u56	And what does that mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u57	In other words, do you have any objections or on behalf of the New Democracy?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u58	I am rapporteur, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u59	As rapporteur, then. Because I asked if there was anyone who had any objections. Then I would give you the floor as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u60	All right, Mr. President. Excuse me, I don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u61	Excuse me, I didn't understand. The rapporteurs are therefore: From the side of SYRIZA Mr.Georgios Pallis, from the side of the New Democracy, from the Democratic Compact of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Theodoros Papatheodorou, from the Golden Daisy, from the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Christos Katsotis, who is also a Parliamentary representative, from the Independent Greeks Mr. Konstantinos Katsakis, from the Union of Kentronis Saridis and from Potamis Spiridon Danellis. Here, Mrs. Vuldesis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u62	Thank you very much, Mr President. We have kept our guard in committee, because we usually have amendments of this kind, and we would like to put it in place anyway. Of course, the government today originalised and has not brought anything. But, Mr President, I would like to point out that this week and on the occasion of this ratification, it is the first time that Parliament has had legislative work. The country is in a great uncertainty. As far as we understand, some supposed negotiation is taking place, some unsuccessful battles have been taking place on issues that have already been settled since the summer of 2015, the supplementary memorandum of June, since the 2016 FEK, and we should note that the House is in the dark. Yesterday morning, the Prime Minister again bailed out saying that he would provoke a convening of the euro countries summit and the evening coming to the dinner that Mr Andreadis and the SETE quoted - because he lost the bet of most tourists, but in the meantime, the revenue bet was lost, and so for the first time such a bet is celebrated, more visitors and less revenues - and I think he answered "I think not". First of all, I would like to say that we, New Democracy, vote and ratify all bilateral agreements and all the agreements that the European Union concludes with third countries. But yesterday, and because this particular ratification with Russia is being discussed today, immigration was placed. And Mr Tsipras once again told us that closing the Balkan road is a unilateral energy of our northern borders. Nevertheless, he said, of course, that he supports the European path of the Western Balkans and did not ask the European Union and Mr Tusk to take action to open our northern borders, as he says that these famous Western Balkan countries were unilaterally shut down. Mr. Tusk, on the day the northern borders closed us, celebrated from Twitter and said that this was a decision of all twenty-eight, namely Greece. And yesterday he replied that we should speed up our efforts to keep the corridor of the Western Balkans closed. I am putting this issue again, which is very serious and involving the Ministry of Civil Protection, but also other ministries. So while we here have ratified agreements that the European Union has ratified with other countries or with third countries, it has been more than a year since our northern borders are closed. That's not allowed and it's very embarrassing. The European Union should be asked to take an official position, something Mr Tusk has done in his own saying that he wants our northern borders to be closed down. Look, the banks are closed, our borders are closed, the country is in trouble. And I conclude by saying this: When the northern borders are closed, even a hundred days to come from the east, the islands fill up because there is no way out, and there is a problem with the asylum procedure and we know it. I would ask you very much, because it seems that we are actually playing the best, that we take a serious answer to the Balkan road, the closed road to the Western Balkans. We must also discuss at some point and find out exactly what is really happening in the country at the moment we are in danger, as yesterday morning the Prime Minister said he would call the Euro Summit and at night it seems to him that this cannot be done and took back his threat. Obviously, we're voting for ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Vulture. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, all of us, both the Minister and the rapporteurs and the parliamentary representatives, will have the floor for five minutes. I'm saying that so everyone knows.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u64	Why, did I talk more?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u65	I didn't say that about you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u66	Mr President, I would like to speak for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u67	Would you like to interrupt the rapporteurs?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u68	I shall speak as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u69	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u70	I have listened with caution to the rapporteur for Officerial Response, who, on the occasion of the ratification of a contract, has also referred to the negotiation, and what I would like to say very quickly is that the Greek Government is currently giving a negotiating battle in order to claim a economically viable, socially just and therefore politically acceptable agreement for the Greek people. And you, as a Civic Opposition, instead of supporting a national, after all, effort, what you are doing is to remain united with the most extreme circles of lenders, and your match was once again expressed, on Tuesday, during the debate on the second assessment of the Greek programme in plenary session of the European Parliament, where you came to blame European officials for supporting the government, because they made two - three positive comments on the economic recovery process and improving budgetary levels and objectives. So instead of being identified with the Greek people and with the Greek society in this effort to get out of the commission and to put an end to the seven-year-old austerity, you join the extremists of the lenders. I would advise you instead of channeling all these working efforts, your opposition odor and your energies to strike overthrowing and election scenarios, because you think - I do not know why it is your own power - that you should help to overthrow the committee and memorial regime of this country, where with your previous policies and omissions you have also contributed. Let us see now and in the light of the Examinations, how many billions of euros of public money have been wasted and wasted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u71	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u72	Mr. Teddy, you obviously want to comment and answer. Here, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u73	Five minutes is too much, Mr President. Thank you for your generosity. It takes no longer five minutes to respond to these eternal, monotonous fairy tales, which are now a model: the 'good' government which expresses its people, the 'good, racing children' fighting against the 'bad' foreign' and the 'bad' and the 'bad' opposition which supports 'bad' lenders. We're sick of hearing it. To get used to the collapsing that it expresses something less than 10% of the Greek people and therefore, the first thing I would ask her to do is stop talking in the name of the Greek people. He is entitled to speak of something less than 1/10 of the Greek people. The second is, if you have goodness, except for all these folk tales and the rest, to be serious about this evaluation story. Because we may say nice and thick words about struggles and struggles and everything else, but society is actually falling apart and the market is falling apart. And that's why there's an absolute responsibility, alone, alone, trusted - or indebted, if you want - to the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. In addition, Mr President, I would like to say this: the threats to the investigations and the threats to the preliminary investigations are heard. Stop threatening the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u74	It's a parliamentary duty.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u75	If he wants to do anything, he will. Here we go. We have no objections. We voted, we vote, we vote, as long as we consider it right. The threats to leave them. It's none of our business. He's got enough wet now, not to say too much wet. To deal with her house and anyway, don't threaten. The threat is not a parliamentary act.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u76	Nobody threatened.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u77	I would like to end this, Mr President. I imagine Manolis Anagnostakis is a poet known on the left. So I repeat his verse: 'Today the numbers are shouting.' Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, too. We'll move on with the special speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u79	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u80	As a parliamentary representative, would you like to intervene?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u81	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u82	You have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. The new package of anti-grassroots measures and those accompanying the second assessment, but also those which will make up the fourth Memorandum, i.e. the measures to be implemented after the expiry of the third Memorandum, seek both the government and the institutions to be of a lasting nature and repetitive efficiency, regardless of the general developments in the economy, whether it has a fall in GDP either stagnation or recovery of profits of business groups. All these measures will further worsen the lives of the workers and the people's classes, to which you loaded the capitalist crisis and the debt with Armageddon measures. 'No tolerance to this policy', this is the message that we want to send to all workers and peoples. Nobody expects anything. On the other hand, to organise the struggle of the people to overthrow all this policy, which supports their monopolies and power, so that the people can claim their losses and modern needs. That is why we call tomorrow at the trade union rally this afternoon, against all these measures, which will break the lives of our people further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr Katsotis. Mr Papatheodorou has the floor on the Convention for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to make a small comment on what the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman said. When we are here, Mr President, at a time when the Prime Minister is being forced to cover the weakness and unreliability of his own negotiation, to raise the question of whether some are playing the bests and waiting there for him to have a stand both from Anti-Policy and from within Greece, but also from abroad, which is consistent with a normal country, you can understand that this is not possible, but also shows the weakness that the government has experienced today in managing after so much delay the interests of the Greek people. That is why all the country expects is to bring the agreement, which it is supposed to have negotiated hard, as it says, and also - because my colleague has spoken about the people and their interests - how this agreement is identified with the interests of the Greek people. As regards the draft law today, I would like to say that I had stressed last time that we expected the correction in the explanatory statement of the term 'illegal immigration' and 'illegal immigrant'. It didn't happen. Of course, this will not prevent us from voting in favour.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u86	Legislative improvement will be submitted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u87	It has not been done in the text, which has been shared in the House, Minister. We expect your position to change under the term "anti-normal migration" and "anti-normal immigrant". As far as content is concerned, we obviously recognise the usefulness of the agreement with the Russian Federation, we are voting in favour of the draft law and we welcome it, because for the first time in a ratification of a convention there is no body of amendments, as we requested. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, too. Mr. Panayotarus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. Before I speak about the contract, I would also like to make a small comment on what has been heard. I shall begin with what the honourable Member, Mrs SYRIZA's parliamentary representative, has said, addressing the Civilian Opposition, said that in order to overthrow the committees, the memoranda and everything that oppresses the Greek people, you must have a different approach to things. In order to reverse all this, Madam President, you should not vote on it. Because you have now voted for the memorandum, you have passed hundreds of Memorandum laws, you have continued the unacceptable policy of your predecessors' memorials, whom you have conceded, you have also been accused of this rhetoric as a first party and now you are trying to justify unjustified rights. In order to save this place, the country and those who govern it and have the keys to move in a completely different direction - what more and more people say it, they don't whisper it, they say it out loud - which you didn't do, because very simply, like the previous ones, you are the best friends of creditors, loan sharks and all those whom you were squeezing down to a precedent. These are the economic issues and the hollow controversies you make between you, because you think that the Greek people will eat hay, as you have accused the others before. Now, regarding the ratification of the Implementation Protocol between the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Russian Federation, it is a contract that since 2006 has been coming now, with eleven years of delay in our country to sign. The data has changed. Welcome, even after 11 years. From 25-5-2006, he is now on his way to 6-5-2017. Of course, Minister, this agreement is of little importance now because all the data have been changed. Now from the Russian Federation we have very few and small influx of illegal immigrants. On the contrary, we have inputs from other countries. The problem doesn't focus there. It focuses on Pakistan, Afghanistan, sub-Saharan African countries and elsewhere, for which you do nothing. I guess you did something about Pakistan. You have informed Mr Avramopoulos of the serious problems and that something needs to be done, because very simply Islamabad denies any return of irregulars, as you say, migrants - we call them illegal immigrants - from Pakistan or from elsewhere. We see the oxymobile phenomenon, Pakistan raising walls so that they don't enter, he says, from Afghanistan to Pakistan. All the countries of Europe and the Balkans have lifted up walls to protect their borders, and we in Greece are insisting on open-ended policy, this disastrous policy, which leads nowhere, only destroys the countries that defend it. You should also take a very serious interest in both the government and the Minister, but also in Greece, as a member of the European Union, and put pressure on the inconveniences that are taking place from our neighbouring Turkey, because while Greece has requested the readmission of thirty-seven thousand seven hundred twenty-two irregular immigrants, Turkey has only received three thousand eight hundred eighteen. At the same time, daily people enter our homeland, whether there are few dozens, hundreds or thousands. That doesn't matter. We will vote in favour of this convention because it should be done, but we should also not vote for the conventions in order to vote for them, but we should vote for them to comply with them. In closing, Minister, I think you are due to an explanation to the Greek about whether it is the wardrobe's fault or - above all as we now read that the ministry and some police circles - it is the stalemate. This bandit, who had been released by Mr. Paraparapulos to continue stealing, robbing, killing, rapeing - will be re-entrying, re-entrying with the laws as Mr. Paraparapulos wants - now say it was not fourteen hours in the wardrobe. They say it was three to four hours there and it was hidden in the loaf. However, it is not the fault of the Greek citizens who see and read every day the police car, which is like the Golden Guide: "Dead in Saint Panteleimon", "Dead in Omonia", "Dou in "NIVEA" and again took another safe, "attack here", "disasters there", "intrusions" and anything else. This is happening in our country and, unfortunately, you are 'whispering thieves'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, too. Mr Katsotis has the floor. On the agreement, please, Mr Katsotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Gentlemen, the JRC has a radically different attitude to the migration and refugee problem. We think it's a purely classic problem. It is due to specific causes and concerns the world working class as a whole. The immigrants, their refugees, the European Union, NATO, the United States, the imperialist countries with the imperialist wars they have fought and continue to do everywhere. They were driven away from poverty and impoverishment. Foreigners and local capitalists throw workers into countries like Bangladesh, Pakistan, but also in African countries. “They have done and continue to make wars, to control the enormous energy wealth that exists in these countries, to gain control over the streets of oil, gas, to divide the region and make even more profits for the multinationals. This policy of wars and exploitation supports the European Union, NATO, the United States and other imperialist countries and forces such as Russia and China. This policy is supported by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, but also by other parties. The same policy supports the Nazi - criminal Golden Dawn, the long murderous hand of the rotten exploitation system, sowing its fascist poison, with the tolerance of the other parties. It is not just against immigrants, but generally against workers, against those who fight. Their attitude to diversity is recent. They went to kill the student the other day. The cause of immigration is the same as the cause of refugee. As we call the immigrant, irregular, illegal or irregular, as the European Union says, the nature of the matter does not change. He's the one who bombs. He's making the slave traders himself. It chokes refugees at sea, creates unemployed people, reduces dirt, moves drugs, trades women, builds bombers. And his name is: Capitalism. We are calling on the workers and we tell them that they alone may not allow them to leave the ground for racism, nationalism, for religious poison that they are spreading, for xenophobia not to pass. The capitalists of the various countries, who are trying to separate workers, are working together to exploit them all more easily. They seek to turn the whites against the blacks, the Greeks against the foreigners, to perpetuate their exploitation, to shield their authority and sovereignty. In order to stop immigration, refugee, the causes of it, which are capitalism and war, which are going together, must be addressed. The specific protocol between Greece and Russia, which comes for ratification, was signed in 2012 between the relevant Greek and Russian ministers and entered under a readmission agreement between the European Union and Russia, signed in 2006. The European Union has chosen, among other things, repressive measures and so on, namely, the conclusion of readmission agreements with many countries, to limit the number of immigrants coming from or passing through the territory of these countries. These agreements are the implementation of the general policy of selective immigration adopted by the European Union and the Member States. In other words, on the one hand, the attraction of a certain number of immigrants, useful to the monopolistic groups and businesses - we have seen this with Germany - how many refugees were useful to business groups and, through the so-called 'blue card', they are legally hired with smaller salaries and fewer rights than those of local workers - and, on the other, to those who are not useful, we have deportations and relocations. For the rest, so-called 'illegal' or 'irregular' immigrants, this is their destiny. Applying selective migration is also the Greek Government's policy to attract Greece rich real estate investors, in exchange for a five-year residence permit and a special visa, which gives them certain rights to move to the European Union. We have read recently that the Russian investors are second, after the Chinese, to the market for large or luxurious properties and have been given - we know forty-eight - such golden visas and residence permits to Russian real estate investors in Greece. The JRC, from a position of principle, does not vote for such agreements and protocols, which are part of the general migration policy of the European Union and the Greek governments. On the contrary, he struggles so that no immigrants, no refugee can be persecuted. Greeks cannot accept to load on immigrants and refugees the problems of capitalism, which are unemployment, poverty, the disgraceful situation in health, education, crime and prostitution. In conclusion, we say once again that the cause of immigration and refugee will be eliminated when human exploitation by people is eliminated, this barbarity called capitalism, when production meets extended needs and not profit. This requires the world's working class to fight to get rid of the monopolies and their power, to conquer their own power, to stop the barbarity of exploitation and wars and to prosper the people by building the new socialist communist society. As a JRC, we are acting in this direction and we call on the workers, the self-employed, the poor farmers, the young people and the young people to join in this struggle which is the only one who can deal definitively with unemployment, poverty and impoverishment, the only one who can guarantee the well-being of the people. We are voting against the readmission agreement between the European Union and Russia.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u92	It is known in this House that our meeting is being followed by the southern theories, after being toured in the exhibition of the courtroom "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the Parliament, Mr Graham Brady, Member of the British Parliament, accompanied by a mission from Bolton University. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Rabbit has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u93	How much time do I have, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u94	Five minutes higher everyone's got it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u95	Five minutes. Although we could talk for fifty-five minutes with what's happening, we'll talk for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u96	According to the Rules of Procedure. So is the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u97	I didn't say anything about you. For God's sake. We have to say signs and monsters that happen here again. By the way, when the Minister's here, tell me, Minister, what happened. Last Friday, there was an attack at the Golden Dawn offices, one of the most central points of Athens, by some punk hoodmen of the Exarchates with whom you collaborate, whom you are summoning to discuss...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u98	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u99	Don't interrupt me. The ones you call and chat with, the punks of "Rubicon" and the Exarches who parade to Exarchia and look well at them - well, without doing anything, they attacked, tried to burn the offices of the Golden Dawn. There were people inside who caught and used the fire extinguisher and were saved and fled from there, no camera worked. Getting out of there, no police officer has taken care of them all. Then you went to arrest goldfishers because you supposedly beat someone, according to some testimonies. Whoever is guilty, Minister, and whoever has committed convicted acts, is punished. But people can't be punished for a card. People cannot be punished not for their actions but for their ideology. So tell me, how can it have been attacked three months ago to a Member of our Parliament, George Germenis, that there is a recognition of persons, that he can speak of certain people who hit him, that these people in the particular occupation that is in the northern suburbs, in Maroussi, and that no one is ever arrested? You're partners with those of "Ruvia", you're partners with the Exarchists. You want to scare Greek society. They are the petty children of your ministers and your MPs who, when an insult is accidentally made, are their children inside, of the Ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u100	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u101	You'll hear me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u102	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u103	You'll hear what I tell you. You'll hear me!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u104	He's not lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u105	You'll hear it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u106	You'll listen to me and you'll answer if you want. In the way you're behaving, you drive all out, the punk para-staters, attacking goldfishers, harming us, because you have passed to public opinion that goldfish is not human, you and everyone around here with your behavior, false democrats, supposedly humanists for whom when they die golden, you don't mind, when they're arrested, you don't mind!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u107	Shame on you, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u108	You're an unacceptable!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u109	It's over. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u110	Zero arrests, zero appeals for the rubic punks. They're all arrested and they're going to jail. Tell me something: About the guns found in the mosque in Thrace, who's accountable? Is it anyone's fault? You took us with some water guns for a criminal organization. Okay? So who are they accountable for the imam that was found with the guns in a silencer? Why do you look at the "Rubic" paramilitaries who parade with guns in Exarchia and don't arrest them? They've been inducted and you're leaving them. Why do they get to Maximus? Why are they entering the Greek Parliament? Why do they go inside all the buildings and do whatever they want? What are you doing with the seventy occupations of buildings and hotels that exist in Greece, Athens and what the para-states want? Finally, who is Balaouras who dares to talk about Greece and dares to speak about the Holy Light and that we should not bring it home? You're Bolsheviks. It's a disgrace to you what you're doing here. What you're doing is not allowed!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u111	Shame on you, Mr President! What are the things that are being heard in Parliament?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u112	You're arresting innocent people and no matter how much you mind...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u113	Politics.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u114	Politics, not people personally. They're personally excellent gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u115	You're welcome. Delete the phrases...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u116	It's my opinion. It won't be erased, Mr. President. It is my view and I want what I say to me to be left and judged by the Greek people. I'm not gonna be judged by any of them in here. I will be judged only by the Greek people. No one else! If the Greek people don't vote for me entering the House, I will stop saying it. As long as they vote for me, I'll be in and tell you. They're inadmissible! Who condemned the attack on the Golden Dawn offices by all of you democrats? Who condemned the attempt to burn people alive? As was done in Marfin, when your sons of Ministers burned you innocent people. There were four people inside, because there was a woman who was pregnant and no one was arrested. Nobody was punished for all this crime!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u117	Please, Mr. Rabbit.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u118	It was then that they intimidated the Greek society to go on the road to resist the memorials that came in. It is a Greece under tradition, a Greece under occupation and you take out para-state punks of the Exarchates who dare not conceive them, to scare the world and frighten the national resistance of the Golden Dawn. And for all of you atheists, who don't like the days of Easter and Resurrection that come, tell you something that disturbs you: The '21 revolution that you don't dare discuss it, because it doesn't interest you and you don't want to hear, it had been done for the name, for the faith of Christ the saint and the liberation of our country. That's what it was all about. That's what's bothering you. That'll sound like it. And the Minister will answer me for the arrests of the 'Rubicon' that have been made.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u119	I would like to ask the expressions which go back to the parliamentary morale to be deleted from the Minutes. I would ask the Minister not to continue the debate in the same tone, because, in fact, Parliament is falling apart if the debate takes this character.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u120	Parliament is being smashed by this show by these people.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u121	Look, as you know, the Bureau has various ways of enforcing order. But you realize they're not the best. What we must all understand is that we must all have a decency of parliamentary behaviour and I say that in every direction. Otherwise democracy itself is being exposed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u122	Not in any way. In that direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u123	If our Parliament becomes such a parliament as we see in Asian countries, who blames them?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u124	That is what they are seeking, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u125	This must be avoided, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u126	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u127	Please, Mr Papatheodorou, not continue on the same tactic. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u128	Wait a minute, Mr. President. I would have expected you to have interrupted the procedure and removed the floor beforehand. Because it was not only a reason why it had nothing to do with parliamentary morals and offended the functioning of Parliament, but above all it should not go on with this delusional fascist speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u129	The hates of yours are offended! Go see Chochazopoulou now!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u130	Mr. Papatheodorou, I beg you. Delete from the Minutes the phrases that cause problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u131	I appeal to the Minister for the Process too. Minister, with regard to this fascist delusional behaviour, I would like to ask you, as Minister, not to respond. As the House should be aware, the ministers, as other colleagues have already done, should not respond to such positions, so that there is no procedure in response to a Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u132	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u133	I'm going to give you the floor, but please be mild, not be defused.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u134	Now you see, Mr President, that there is no mildness?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u135	All right, Mr. Dannelly. We must not help in this climate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u136	But you have tolerated this whole story, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u137	Please! You have the floor, Mr. Dannelly.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u138	Mr President, thank you for that. Parliamentary democracy in its generosity tolerates the presence of its occupants at its temple. But Parliament has its Rules of Procedure, Mr President, and this must be implemented and implemented in order to protect Parliament's interests. It is incomprehensible that we were seeing just now, this show which, of course, was not directed at us, but at the Greek people. That is why we must not allow such procedures again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u139	The way all of us are treated is judged by the Greek people. The process is public, and the Greek people are also being conveyed. It is in the mind of judging everyone. Don't worry. By doing various shows in this House, all we can do is expose the House. That's what we finally do.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u140	Mr President, I would like to speak as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u141	Please, Mr. Theocharopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u142	First of all, I would like to say that this is an extreme racist delicacy that we experienced a moment ago in this House. Democracy must protect itself. The Greek Parliament must protect itself. There's the Rules of Procedure. It has to be implemented at last. Of course, and the government should not deal with and respond to anything like this, but we should finally find ways of self-protecting our democracy from such racist, fascist attacks that do not honor anyone. In any case, we cannot allow them to exist in the Greek Parliament. There are these institutional ways. All democratic forces today must be placed here, so that we can be clear that this is outside the logic of parliamentary democracy. Finally, we must put in place all the procedures, all the institutional clauses and all the regulations against this racist, fascist attack on our democracy, on Parliament and on society. As far as the issues discussed previously in relation to the negotiation are concerned, I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that not only the delay in evaluation can be understood, but the procedure for adopting unacceptable new measures which were not at the table in the previous period. He wasn't on the table in the period of 2016. At the moment we have also the uncertainty, which has hit the real economy, and new unacceptable measures. In fact, however, we are in a situation which does not make the country out of the crisis. And uncertainty has been another unacceptable measure that will be adopted both in insurance and in taxation and in labour. At last, then, our country needs another logic. No more mockery for measures and countermeasures to be adopted, after 2018, if the primary surplus is more than 3.5%. Mr Tsipras himself has said that it is impossible to achieve even 3.5%. This is a government mockery right now. We need to make it clear that we need structural reforms, that we need another policy in our country, so that we can finally get out of this crisis, the deadlock, the multi-level crisis that is stifling the Greek society and especially the economy. At last, therefore, you are serious about the possibility of growth, of falling unemployment. All these problems are exacerbated rather than resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u144	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u145	You're welcome, Mrs. Vaki. No controversy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u146	I, too, would like to condemn the previous incident and all this verbal violence of racist and intoleranceist expressions that exalts the temple of democracy and discredits the parliamentary process.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u147	We said this would be erased.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u148	Please, Mr President, you should have recalled the ideological offspring of the Nazis in order. These things are a reproach for our parliamentary customs and democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u149	Just a minute, Mr President, I would like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u150	Mr. Rabbit, not an interactive conversation. I'll answer that. I would ask that we do not create issues and challenges unless we all want the sitting to be interrupted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u151	Mr President, I would like to speak.- Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u152	Mr Kattotis, you have the floor, on the request that, if we want the sitting to be interrupted, it should be interrupted. We won't let the situation divert.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u153	Mr President, I think we have the right to express our opinion on what has been said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u154	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u155	Our people say the best defense is the attack. Today the Golden Dawn is in a difficult position, because the people have got hampered about what it is all about. This is a criminal Nazi organisation that each day proves its hideous face. They are involved in crimes like yesterday. A postman went to kill the student. So every day, they are involved in such crimes, beyond their theory, which is criminal, because it is nazi. So they come here today in this way so that all of their own situation and attitudes can be forgotten about the workers, the people, to every other way. He wants solitary. The tolerance you show to them is a responsibility to all of you, because you feed it and raise it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u156	Mr President, allow me for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u157	Please, Mr Rabbit, I do not want to have an interactive debate. Unless we all want the meeting to be interrupted. Do we want the meeting to be interrupted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u158	No, we don't want the meeting to be interrupted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u159	No, but we had to condemn.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u160	Okay. So let us stop here and give the Minister the floor. I would ask that the matter be closed, because, when such expressions are exchanged that are triggered at the edge of the speech, we are leading to the adjournment of the meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u161	Just a minute, Mr President, allow me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u162	You can understand that I am making every effort to prevent the meeting being interrupted. Please, Minister, have the floor and please do not come to a personal debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u163	No personal controversy, Mr President, and thank you. I would like to remind you that parliamentary democracies, when they are going to defend their existence, are much harder than all the regimes. The law will be implemented. The law will be implemented, whether or not people want it. The functioning of our democratic culture and the constructive criticism that is being made here in order to improve our system, improve our operation and not be demolished. For some are seeking to demolition rather than improvement - they have already been brought to justice - and I invite them, of course, to close themselves in the locker of history, where their defeat was closed in 1945, before the Greek people shut them down, because their Greek people have been smacked, as has been said before, and the Greek people will punish them hard.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u164	Who is the Greek people getting happier? Others got hammered!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u165	And not to speak of the responsible national treasons and defeats in the past. The history and the Greek people know them. And they won't cause, because solutions and legality will be applied where necessary, either on the sidewalk or wherever you're going around.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u166	In Exarcheia, can you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u167	I'm on it. With regard to the other comments that have been made - and I am talking about the framework we can and are discussing in terms of improving the system and not demolition - I would expect that there is not this unprecedented attempt, which has been made in these days, to support the other side, because, you know, elementary patriotic perception requires that we do not support the other side - I do not say the opponent - the other side, when we make a huge effort to reach agreement on as best terms as possible for our people. As far as ratification of the bilateral agreement between the European Union and the Russian Federation on readmission is concerned, legislative improvement is now under way, Mr Papatheodorou, as we said in the debate in committee - I will put it now - in order to correct the term 'unlawful' in the explanatory statement. Indeed, the flow of irregular immigrants is small, so from Russia - around forty people a year over the last few years. However, we are trying to close all these holes and all these problematic areas, and it is also an obligation within the European Union. This agreement must therefore be ratified. For time's sake, I do not repeat the history and exactly what it involves. It has been discussed during the debate in the committee. Finally, I must also say from a governmental point of view our condolences to the Russian Government and the Russian people to the last detestable terrorist strike in St Petersburg. We express our condolences to the families of the victims who have been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u168	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior is finalised: ‘Definition of an Implementation Protocol between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Russian Federation on the implementation of the Relay Agreement between the Russian Federation and the European Community of 25 May 2006’. Asked by this House: Can the bill be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u169	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u170	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u171	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u172	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u173	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u174	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u175	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u176	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u177	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Interior: ‘Definition of an Enforcement Protocol between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Russian Federation on the implementation of the Reconciliation Agreement between the Russian Federation and the European Community of 25 May 2006’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u178	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to ratify the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u179	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-06-S1-commons.u180	With the agreement of the House at 11.47 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 7 April 2017, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, discussion of current questions.
