ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u2	I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question report on Monday 23 October 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 89-17-10-2017 by MP Arcadias of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Georgios Papaliou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs on the subject: "Selecting directors of secondary schools in the Prefecture of Arcadia". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 93-17-10-2017 by MP Carditsa of the New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Tsiras to the Minister of National Defence on the subject: "The institutional problem of the Minister of National Defence". 3. The Question No 75/12-10-2017 by the Vice-President of the Parliament and Deputy Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Finance on the subject: "The financial losses from the night end". 4. The Question No 86/16-10-2017 by the Member of the Attica of the Independent Greeks Mr Konstantinos Katsikis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs on the subject: "Reduced student tariff in public transport". 5. The question by No 88/16-10-2017 of the Greek Open University of Thessaloniki MEP Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs on the subject: “The functioning of the Greek Open University (EPC)”. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under number 94/17-10-2017, a topical question by MP Fthiotidas of New Democracy Mr Christos Stakouras to the Minister of Finance on "Financing actions from criminal actions against the Greek State and making available for social purposes". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 77/13-10-2017 topical question by MP Elias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Finance on the subject: 'Reintegration of public debtors into the regulation of the hundreds of doses'. 3. The question asked by MP I of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Ioannis Dellis, Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, about vacancies in teachers in primary education. 4. The Question No 83/16-10-2017 by Independent MEP Mr. Catherine Markou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs on the subject: "In the air the distribution of university writings". 5. The current question by MP Laconia of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Leonidas Gregorakos to the Minister of Health on the subject: 'Charter of hospitals in private clinics'. 6. The Question No 34/6-10-2017 by the Vice-President of the Parliament and Deputy Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Health on the subject: "No visible development in the creation of a therapeutic oncology section in Rhodes". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 25/3-10-2017 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Health, concerning the chronic lack of medical staff at the pediatric surgery clinic of the University General Hospital of Heraklion (PAGNI). 8. The question raised by Mr Ioannis Saridis under number 13/2-10-2017 is a topical question from the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject of the contribution of Law 128/1975. 9. The 11/2-10-2017 topical question by MP Lesvos, New Democracy, Charalambos Athanasiou, Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the start of the work of restoring the school buildings of the Municipality of Lesvos which have been damaged by the earthquake of 12 June.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We begin with the fifth, with number 33/6-10-2017, a top-level question from the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Assent of the PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the subject: "Without ELTA Patmos Patmos, due to the weakening of the one-off official". Mr. Comrade, here, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I think it is more timely than I should like to ask you - and to hear - because of your political relationship with the Prime Minister, very modest optimism about what happened with the talks in America. I'm saying this because I was the self-sacrificing witness of the Andreas Papandreou-Clinton meeting with Vice President Gore. Against Andreas Papandreou, President Clinton and against Charles Papoulias the Minister of Foreign Affairs Christopher. So then at the meal, Andreas Papandreou criticised American policy on Yugoslavia and asked that Skopje should not be recognised under the name of "Macedonia". Indeed, President Clinton kept his word, but the next President recognised Skopje under the name "Macedonia" and immediately, the next day, another hundred and twenty countries recognised Skopje. This is because the great powers - and I mean not only America but Russia, as you saw the problem in Erdoga-Putin relations - regulate their relations with the smaller on the basis of their own interests exclusively. That is why I consider it important - historically at least - to present this experience to the National Representation and, of course, to you. After that, I will refer to the topical question, which is of course of great interest to Patmos, because the Post Office is not working, as seasonal officials are not enough in the summer, but it is more generally the problem for all the Aegean islands. In other words, seasonal employees are recruited earlier, and when they arrive in the summer, their term of office is somehow over and officials themselves go to hotel businesses. So there are no employees! So, for the islands, provision should be made for the seasonal contract to cover, if anything, at least during the summer season. All year, of course, but especially during summer. In that sense, therefore, I ask this timely question today and I ask you to look at this from this point of view.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kremastin, I would like to welcome the deposit of your own experience and say that it is a good thing that older parliamentarians, when they do so with coolness and without suffocation, such experiences to testify and be heard again and again. Of course he's restrained. Constrained, no optimism. The positive results are being recorded, we are waiting for them and we are waiting for a step - a step we consider the Prime Minister's very positive visit to the United States. But be careful. We're not going to fall into the other trap. Because if a viewer were to watch - I was thinking, as I accepted my information about the Greek media, as we returned - a specific channel and had not changed to watch another channel, he would think there is no visit by the Prime Minister to the United States, but that the country is in recession and a cholera epidemic! Unfortunately, there are such phenomena, and here I think the whole political world should disapprove them without wanting to tell anyone how to do its job. But I think everyone in the public sphere is critical. I am pleased about your question, Mr Kremastine, and let me say that ELTAs are the vehicle of universal service, that is to say, they are obliged to ensure that every citizen of that country - and the citizen of the Dodecanese and the remote islands - are sufficiently universal. Here I think it is a lesson that the whole political world and all the wings, regardless of what they believe in the economy, must have, that there must be a strong public guarantee and intervention to create the large networks and be in adequacy, especially the networks which are very critical for the cohesion of the country, such as the postal network. In this sense, I think that support for ELTAs for us is a matter of national importance. I would like to say that, in April, we signed the Universal Service Convention with ELTAs, which has been signed for six years - unfortunately it had not been signed - and it regulates all the details on the basis of which the universal service will be provided by ELTAs. With regard to staffing: it is clear that staffing is a high priority and is dealt with on the basis of operational needs and possibilities, which it is of course prioritising - I must tell you, Mr Kremastine - the management of the company, because the company has management and management and president and puts its priorities ahead. The state's debt is to ensure that the ELTAs can do their job, and at this level I think that we have intervened systematically and effectively so far, because the ELTAs have to tell you that they were in a precarious economic situation both with our own interventions and with the cooperation of both the workers and the administration I think they can overcome it. The number of officials shall be subject to financial constraints. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] If I may, thirty seconds, Mr President, and I shall conclude. I must tell you that, from 2006 until now, only thirty-six regular staff have been recruited. Eleven post offices have been set up in the Dodecanese Prefecture. This agency operates with four jobs, in which two officials and one contract staff are currently serving, and there is another official who is currently not performing his duties, because he has been elected to local government. There are many problems, of course. I must tell you that the problems have been covered for the season in which there are increased needs, with fourteen secondments of staff from other service functions. The rest in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kremastein, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u8	I am pleased with the moderate optimism, but I have talked about very - very moderate optimism. For from what you know historically, except for the Erdogan-Putin relationships I said, it was Moskovus who would liberate Greece and live for years, centuries, this story. Unfortunately, life and history are what it is! However, since you have referred to the media - and that is why ERT must be careful - and it must be real ERTs and not competing with the other media - that which I should like to emphasise in particular, is that I, as the Minister of Health - will confirm that to you by Mr Kurublis who is next to you, who was Secretary-General for Welfare, who then, was confronted with a cholera epidemic - was almost to be dropped by the government - who is not there. The media were filled with cholera all over the country! The Chief of Officer's Representation asked for my resignation and I shouted, "There is no cholera!" It's nothing new about the place, what you're saying. We've lived through it. So what we have to end up with...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u9	So now there is no, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u10	Another is the cholera viper, which makes the epidemic, and another is the cholera in the various - if you like - unclean in general. There can be criticism of the government because there is no cleansing, because if they are not cleansed, there is a cholera epidemic that breaks down and creates deaths and deaths, I think that with what we have today, it cannot be substantiated. Another one. But now I come to my own question, Minister. I would ask you, and I keep saying this - and I say this for the health sector that is closest to me - not to listen to the services and the numbers. The problem is that they are recruited seasonally for a period of time and in the critical period there are no recruits. In other words, you have to deal with it in this way and in this way, not how many have been appointed, how many have left, and so on, because the problem is and has to be addressed. I am not talking about Patmos - it was the trigger to ask the question - that the service must function at Patmos at all, but it is a more general problem for the Aegean islands and possibly the Ionian islands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. Here, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. I'm glad to hear that what we've been through has happened before. I do not know because I admit that I am not praiseworthy on health issues, although you had touched nothing'sensitive' interests, which have the ability to invent epidemics if they are affected, as the current head of the Ministry of Health has done. But, in any case, I think, Mr Cremastine, people have taken their own conclusions and it is good that there should also be calm voices in this Chamber, in order to understand the real dimension of things not only from the government side but also from the standpoint of counter-population. As I said before, ELTA is a universal service provider and have an obligation on postal users, regardless of the location of the Greek territory in which they are located, to provide their services constantly at affordable prices. It has already been designed, Mr Kremastine, for direct action, the so-called 'action plan', which includes actions and reconstruction actions to improve the operational functions of Greek Posts. Recently, the automation of a hundred and eighty-four shops in the region, in island and remote areas, has been completed, while the automation of trading houses with distribution units and postal agencies throughout Greece is under way. I have to tell you, as I mentioned in my prototype, that expenditure has been reduced by EUR 21 million for 2016 and reduced in 2017. There is, in other words, an attempt to save resources and we are trying to secure the services in these difficult circumstances. You give me the opportunity to tell you that the ELTAs were in an economic situation, where they had monthly losses of around EUR 5 million. You realise that this would not be sustainable for long, and here I would like to stress that there have been brave decisions from all sides. I think that is something we should take note of. The necessary legislative initiative has already been taken to proceed with the compensation of the ELTAs for the universal service and, of course, the recovery of debts by other public bodies has also been carried out. These debts are around 48 million and have been collected about 15 million, i.e. 1/3 of the debts. Only by the Directorate-General for Information in June we had about EUR 7 million. It has already been a week since, the competition of the National Committee for Telecommunications and Posts has been completed to determine the amount of the universal service and we have already launched the complex actions needed to create the Compensation Fund so that the ELTAs will be compensated very quickly for the coming years from 2000 onwards. I think that the problems you have mentioned too, the administration, within the framework of the overall support which ELTA enjoys from the political leadership, will have to come and see them, as well as whether there are the possibilities and how to meet the needs of the citizens. In any case, I would like you to keep that for us ELTA is an invaluable property, a property that has the main advantage of developing a large network, which can provide very important services and with the development of new technologies, I would say what they are multiplying. In conclusion, I would like to say that it is an agency, which must enjoy the support of all the parties in this House. It is irreplaceable, it is necessary and contributes decisively to the cohesion of the country. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Member II Piraeus Evangelia Karakosta seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad from 27 October to 6 November 2017. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u14	The House therefore approved the requested permission. The second question will be debated now under number 74/12-10-2017 in the first cycle of MP II Athens of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on "The evolution of the business of the immovable ship in the port of Paleochora Chania". Mr Kurublis will answer the timely question. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. I cannot stand the challenge and do not comment on the United States debate which preceded Mr Papapas and Mr Kremastinos. I would like to say to the Minister that the issue of cholera microbe also exists and the issue of recession in the years ‘15 and ‘16 according to ELSTAT's figures is there and the given growth of 0.7% close to 1% in 2014 that threw the government is a given one and all this is a reality. However, it is not what we heard about a specific piece of equipment, which we had asked about, Mr Theocharopoulos, in the House, Mr Kammenos how much it costs. We had not said 'no' or 'yes'. We asked the cost. He said he couldn't identify it. Then, in response to the written parliamentary control, he had spoken of 2 billion. We have now learned the honour from the President of the United States and from the Greek Minister responsible that it is 1,1 billion programme costs and the rest are compensatory measures when, Mr President, compensatory measures are prohibited. A European directive was incorporated in 2011, which for reasons of competition protection prohibits compensatory payments. It has been predicted - and indeed by amendment at that time - what will happen by the end of 2014 for the programmes that have taken place. Lie on lying, but annoying by reproducing reality. Now, Mr President, Mr Minister, it has been tabled by both PMG and IOBE, the indiscriminate presumption that in Greece, in general, smuggling is smuggling. In fact, according to the IOBE, cigarette smuggling has outrun itself by 30% lately. We have sixty thousand families working in the production, processing and retailing of lost cigarettes, we also have the Greek State losing hundreds of millions. Indeed, according to figures from the public itself, recently, before a month, the smuggling of cigarettes produces damage to the public greater and to the smuggling of oil. We have these shocking data, and on the other hand we have a specific case that reveals inertial inertia as a whole of the state mechanism. Don't think, Minister, that we're talking about this. Because smuggling and cigarettes are an international problem, we are being watched. There's no question of finding a failure of a principle. That's in the program and it's everybody's business. There is a question, however, when we find an inertia and unwillingness and embarrassment of the authorities of the country and of the political authorities, to see what has happened. I ask you a very specific question: Eleven months after we have found this ship with smuggling cigarettes, which is immobilized in Paleochora Chania, firstly, why has the company not been invited to explain? It has been revealed from the information you and the Ministry of Finance - data from the customs authorities, not yours - that this case concerns a particular producer. Why didn't you invite her to explain? Secondly, how did you rally in an interview with a radio station to rule out smuggling when all services talk about a suspected case of smuggling?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u17	Mr President, I thought that Mr Loverdos, an experienced politician and university professor, would come here today to acknowledge an effort made by the Ministry of Shipping in recent months, which has never taken place in prosecution of all illegal activities at sea, whether they concern cigarette smuggling, oil smuggling, or illegal chartering in the Aegean Sea, which has been going on for years and nobody has been talking about. It seems that all these phenomena have occurred during the time that SYRIZA is in the government. We should also listen to that and accept it. Mr. Loverdo, you're addressing the Minister of Shipping. I don't know what to say. Can I tell you you haven't read what I said to you on 7 July? I think that this must not have happened. The Ministry of Shipping tell me what he's omitted that he should have done it. If the Ministry of Shipping, Mr. Loverdos, was not of special importance, it could have left this ship because you deliberately come here and say things you shouldn't have said and don't have honored you, because you're a university professor. The ship was arrested in international waters. Don't you know what a ship's arrest means in international waters? The ship was left unresolved in international waters. You know that. He was towed by another foreign ship. The Port therefore received it and brought it to Paleochora. That is where we have kept it and have in no way allowed it to go, no matter what the arguments were used on the part of the owners. The cargo was dropped, the cargo was checked, the ship was checked if it has drugs and weapons, the case was referred to customs, it went to customs, it sealed the cargo, it was all legal, the Ukrainian Embassy and the Ukrainian Government were asked, through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, if the documents it carried were correct, because the ship was fishing and it was suddenly found to be commercial. The relevant documents came that it was turned into Ukraine by a commercial fishing vessel. So we have all these correspondence, all those documents. We asked for the prosecutor's intervention. So today the case is in two authorities, the Prosecutor's Office of Chania and the Prosecutor's Office of Piraeus. After you bothered to ask me that question, why didn't you go to the prosecutor's office to ask him, who are you, and who are you, a law-abiding lawyer, why is he stalling and putting the blame on us? So I'm gonna make a decision now? Am I going to get over the public prosecutor, Mr. Loverdos? Are we serious? I say that to be close to reality and not to say what we want. If we want to have an aggressive logic against some people, do it, but that's another thing. But do you justify asking what the Ministry of Shipping does when the case is currently in the hands of the public prosecutor since March? So tell me how I'm going to get over the prosecutor's office and I'm going to do it. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u19	On the general position of Mr Kourublis, he says his ministry on the matter demonstrates the appropriate control intensity. I'll take it. But he must also accept the unrelenting statistical element that, although he does what he does, the smuggling in Greece in cigarettes is increasing. And generally smuggling increases. I can't do more than I can and crime in this particular field is growing. There's something I'm not doing right. On this particular issue, I asked you why 11 months the company has not been asked to explain. Why? For seven months, I was telling you in June, I was telling you now. You're not answering. Secondly, I asked you why you were prevented from smuggling when even the port services are talking about a ship with a suspicious look and a suspected merchandise. I now come to the contents of your reply. You say, "But what can I do?" I would like to say, if you so wish, the answer that the Minister for Justice gave me for the second time and very soon. He replied to me the first time in August or July - I do not remember right now - telling me that there has been a criminal court case. Mr. Kurublis said there was no smuggling. I now ask him where this criminal case-file is and he tells me that a preliminary examination is being carried out by the prosecutor of Piraeus from the Port Authority, whose head is the present Minister. I'm answering. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Andreas Loverdos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would like to ask you again: is the customs authority and the port authorities telling you to repeat this, according to a document submitted to Parliament by the State Secretary responsible, which I had asked in writing, that the ship has a suspicious view, that the goods themselves are in bulk? Secondly, he tells you that there is an importer in Lebanon who refuses to relate to the goods. So this is where suspicions become certain of smuggling to be investigated. Thirdly, no one is looking for this commodity. Nobody! It's lost because nobody wants to be interested in something that's smuggling. And while all this is said by the customs authorities and Mr Kourublis repeats them in reply to me in writing to his question which he invoked - I have it in front of me - his service answers on the basis of the answers of the customs authority. The whole story 11 months later - and that is what exposes us internationally and also in the eyes of Greek citizens - has reached a point where the producer of a Greek company has not yet been called. And I say it for the third time, causing the Minister to take a stand on this and answer: why did you yourself rule out smuggling, while the agencies say otherwise? Do you believe in the government, Mr. Kurubli? What reason would you have personally? Do you believe in the government? Have you been ordered? Your delay is inversely proportional to the interconnection you have themselves confessed to a specific businessman here. Here to give the reason for the delay in this relationship? So that we too could explain the 11 months delay in the relationship you yourself have confessed to, when you have said what you have said about a specific amendment that you have brought, while pending a court ruling? And you want me to remember the interviews of this businessman, which the Greek Prime Minister reminds him of President Putin - perhaps now reminds him of President Trump - who has said to support, why does the future of Greece belong to him? Is that the explanation I have to give? I say I don't give it. Let me listen to you. But tell me, where are you the political leader of the port authorities? Why, for 11 months, did you not ask a company to explain? Nothing else I'm asking you, Minister. If you tell me that, I'm covered.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u21	Mr President, I did not want the debate to go to that level that Mr Lovers has attempted. First of all, Mr Loverdos, I have not been adopted on my political path. The gentleman to whom you refer, in my life, I met him twice at a mouse event. I had nothing to do with it. Others were at his child's wedding. Well, don't talk to me about these issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u22	I didn't mention to you. I said if someone's pushing you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u23	I listened very carefully to you. You don't have to interrupt me. Be patient. From there on, the cigarettes you refer to, as far as this company is concerned, have been legally exported from Montenegro. We don't know if those cigarettes inside the ship got them from Montenegro or how. But this company has been legally exported. There doesn't seem to be any involvement in this ship's case. So, how am I supposed to call right now? And one more thing: Am I gonna call? Let the D.A. call. Why don't you go to the prosecutor, Mr. Loverdos, since you're better aware of the legal issues than I do - and tell him to call any companies involved? You say things that you shouldn't say and you don't justify saying them specifically, because you are a law-approved lawyer. I won't say anything more and I'm sorry. But I'll say something else, Mr. Loverdo. I now put forward an amendment, which concerns all these 'blocks', which make the oil tanks on the limit of their age. I am also not going to allow rocking, as it has been all these years - and you know it well - to places where there is no stigma from AIS. I have tabled a request to the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay and I ask you - and I ask you personally, as you are a Member of Parliament for years - to come with me next week, as is any other colleague who is struggling with the issue of smuggling. So if you really believe what you are saying - because I'm not afraid of anyone, Mr. Loverdos, and I'm not just asking questions to say that I was asking questions, as I hear some honourable colleagues from the Opposition say that I did two, three questions about smuggling - come and go together. I asked all parties, Mr. Loverdos. I have sent a letter to your party too, because the political world is being charged with things many times unjustly, we must all go together and ask for a review of all the innocenceful decisions on smuggling. That is where the Greek people will understand who indirectly or directly support this situation and who are determined to conflict with this situation. I would therefore ask you to go and ask Mrs Demetriou to initiate the procedure and to link it up - because you will tell me that many of these cases have been dropped - with criminal acts and dirty money laundering. If we dare, then I'm sure we'll really do a very big, brave, decisive break with this whole system. If we don't, we'll be accountable to the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Minister. Subsequent to the fourth question under number 43/9-10-2017, the fourth question of the first cycle of the Member of the Evia Parliament, Simos Kedicoglou, to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: ‘System of the selection of the President and CEO of the Anonymous Society of Ports of Evia’. Here, Mr. Kedicoglou, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'm glad you showed up after the multiple questions...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u26	Come on. All right! My firm knowledge of you first!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u27	It's been months waiting for an answer. But I want to tell you that I'm sorry, because I've been waiting for you all these months to realize the cost you're being charged...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u28	Once you came to the House and I came...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u29	For months I have tabled written questions which have not been answered. Minister, let us look at the substance of the case of the infamous CEO of the Evia Port Authority. There was a competitive process. Those who did not have a postgraduate were excluded and then discovered that the director selected did not have a postgraduate degree, while the committee said he had a postgraduate degree. Then he asks for the change. He says it's the committee's fault. But we'll see them in detail: There is a competitive procedure, as defined in Law 3429/2005. It was compulsory for a competitive procedure. A contract notice shall be issued indicating that a postgraduate degree is to be taken into account. The decision is made in the Gender of the Official Journal, which says that after this competitive process, Mr Papandreou, your chosen one, was chosen. Here are the institutions, because in the sense of the decision of the committee, one, two, three, four, to tell you the names: Argirios, Delivorias, Kaletheris, Karatzoudis, Kiosidou, I don't need to say it all. Sixteen people are excluded. Everyone says that it does not appear that the candidate has a postgraduate degree. In fact, one tells one of the candidates that they do not have relevant requirements for postgraduate studies. So sixteen people are excluded, eight are left and your chosen one is ahead. The committee's reasoning states for Mr Papandreou that he holds a postgraduate degree in banking at the Open University of Cyprus. That is the decision of the committee. Of course, because 'neither hidden under the sun', it is revealed that Mr. Papandreou has no Master's degree. This is where laughs start, because Mr. Papandreou asks for the change. He says he has done nothing, he blames the committee on his part too - to present the reasoning of the committee - and the publications in which Mr Papandreou says that it is not his fault, but it is the committee's fault, and of course it is the papers to support the local officials of SYRIZA. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Simos Kedicoglou, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] There is, indeed, a letter from him to you, from what I hear, which tells you that the problem has arisen from the committee's decision. In addition, in his letter, he also invokes postgraduate studies at the University of Kentucky (Kentucky) and, indeed, written as Kentacky, that is to say, writes it with "a". If he graduates in English and doesn't know how Kentucky is written, it's a surprise to me! But things are serious, Minister. When he blames the committee, there are consequences. Because the committee puts the evaluation procedure into an ancillary qualification, which has increased to a major qualification, a qualification which has proved to be lacking in the selected person. In accordance with Article 28 of Law No.4305, the Committee had to carry out an own-initiative verification of the authenticity of the supporting documents and, in general, to ensure that the conditions laid down by the applicant were met. Also, according to Article 259 of the Criminal Code, a member with intent to violate his duties in order to bring himself or another illegal advantage or to harm the state or someone else is punished by imprisonment of two years if this act is not punished by another criminal provision. It's serious. The Chief Executive Officer's charges against the committee are serious. You come to an even more difficult position, because your Ministry spokesman has announced from the summer that he has been asked to resign. I'm filing the CD. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Simos Kedicoglou, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned CD, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But listen to your Ministry's spokesman...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u30	You're carrying a robbery to Parliament!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u31	No, it's not intercept. He's leaving a message. It's a reporter.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, does he carry a intercept to Parliament? It's a disgrace!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u33	Mr. Colleague, so that we don't create tensions...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u34	The radio has played, Mr. Kurubli. I've got it from the radio station.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u35	He's not on the radio. It's intercepting! You shouldn't have done it, you guys who were a press minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u36	Minister, may I direct the debate?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u37	Mr. Curublis, the case...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u38	Mr. Comrade, you've got five and a half minutes. You're out of time. Please! You have a dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u39	Mr President, I expected Mr Kedicoglou to have a measure in his speech. Mr. Kedicoglou, were you appointed by competition? I ask, for the Greek people to know how you ruled. You nominated them as couches. That's what you did. My predecessor, Mr. Dritsas, with his sensitivity to issues of transparency and democracy, has made an overrun and has launched a competition. An invitation to tender was submitted, the supporting documents, as provided for in No 3429 and the committee was approved. The committee has reached three people, one of whom the Minister chooses. So the person, who is indicted, had all the formal qualifications provided for by the law. What does the law provide for? It provides for a higher education, national or foreign degree - there is - and a five-year experience. There's an experience of twenty-two years. What else did he say he was taking into consideration? Postgraduate studies. No postgraduate title. It's expressly said in the notice. There are studies at the University of Cyprus and at the TEI of Athens. It has therefore been raised on your part that there is a problem here. Complaints were filed by various citizens, by those who had a right. The case went to the Public Administration Inspector, who - I quote, Mr President, in this House, the report on the Minutes - concludes that there is no legal problem in appointing this particular man, no appointment, who, for the first time - I stress again, for the first time! - Mr Kedicoglou, it was done in such a way that no direct appointment was made, as was done all the previous years. That's the truth, and that's the reality!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u40	Mr. Kedicoglou, you have the floor for your dentology for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u41	I would say that the answer is for laughing, but unfortunately in Evia we cry with what is happening. Minister, sixteen people were excluded from the competitive process because they did not have a postgraduate degree? They've been blocked. Has your chosen person been designated and the committee's reasoning state that he holds a postgraduate degree? It's done, too. In the meantime, what you said about the past, when the agency was set up, was not an ECJ. Once the ECJ became, it was included in the provisions of the law and the competitive process had to be carried out. It wasn't from your good heart. You weren't overreacting following the law. We have reached the point where you say that it is democratically overrun when you follow the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u42	You haven't read. Come more read in the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u43	Well, here's what your chosen one does. Your chosen one breaks contracts to make direct assignments, hires groomed ministers, sons of Secretary-General, serves. I'll submit to the minutes the direct assignments he's making. He went to do so with the lawyers, but because with the Chalkida Bar Association he found them dark, here's the decision that determines directly assigning to a lawyer, here's the decision that withdrew it after he got beaten by Chalkida's lawyers. With a view to improving the quality of life of the European Union, The worst thing, however, is, Minister, is that it is prevalent, threatens workers to be fired. And that's not what I'm saying. Here's the papers, but above all here's the communiqué of the federation of the workers at the ports that denounces him. I shall submit the relevant documents for the minutes. That's your chosen one! That's the man you're defending! This is the man you have uncircumcisedly placed, and he is the man who will take you to court, because there are already recourses to justice. If the principal is not responsible, the Secretary-General of your Ministry shall be responsible. So choose who you'll quit. Unless you have the emotiveness to resign yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u44	Mr Panagiotis Kourublis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u45	You're making mistakes. And you shouldn't have personally made such mistakes. Anyway. Mr President, my dear fellow Member, whom I appreciate and I love and knows, has done an unmanageable job today. It brought Parliament a telephone communication that was not on a live show of my partner with a journalist. There should also be the necessary action in terms of the broadcasting board. It is wrong that this should also be done on the altar of the opposition to return such methods that undermine democracy. Now, if this president, my dear Mr. Kedicoglou, takes such action, you can send him to the prosecutor. Why don't you do it? Instead of coming here and saying "doing it", "doing it", "doing illegal," send him to the prosecutor. I urge you. I don't care about this particular man. I'm interested in the port going well, the body going well, and we can help as long as we can develop the area. From that point on, if he does that sort of thing, he doesn't have any cover for me. Send him to the D.A. Now, in terms of procedure, you know very well that you are exposed. For no president of the port agency, you did not make a contest to place him. You've all put them as a matter of fact, and you know it very well. Now this process is taking place. I've submitted to you the findings of the public administration inspector. You said something, which I believe you mentioned in the speech. I can't believe you said it consciously. You said he wrote in his application that he has a postgraduate degree. There isn't. In the application, it writes "Students of Postgraduate". It's another thing to say studies and another thing is the title.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u46	The reasoning of the committee...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u47	No, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u48	The committee in her decision says she has a postgraduate degree.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u49	No, he doesn't. Listen to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u50	But I testified it. We're going crazy out here!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u51	You want to hear me now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u52	Mr President, I tabled it in the Minutes. Please read.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u53	There's nowhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u54	Please read. You can't do the white one like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u55	Mr. Kedicoglou, help finish the question in a good way.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u56	Mr. Kedicoglou, if you read the survey carried out by the inspector, you will find that you are in error in this matter. Expose for no reason. Read it and return your question if in his application he says he has a degree.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u57	But I didn't tell the application. I said that the committee's decision says it has a degree.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u58	When we say something here, we'll say serious things.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u59	Minister, don't twist what I said. I said that the committee's decision says it has a postgraduate degree.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u60	Leave the board's decision. I'm telling you what this man's testified to.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u61	So it's the committee's fault.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u62	So the person in question filed an application saying that 'I have studies, not a degree'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u63	We're talking about the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u64	There is therefore no such matter. That's why the inspector's finding is a catapult. Take it, read it from there and any action you decide you need to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u65	The decision of the committee...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u66	Mr Colleague, come back with the same question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u67	Mr President, please speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u68	Let's just come back. The Minister tells you that if there is disagreement on this point that you can prove it, you have no reason to resubmit the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u69	I tell you first of all to read out the decision I have tabled. However, I would ask for the floor on staff, because I was insulted by the Minister for the audio document. I've been telling him he's been playing on Chalkida's radio all over the last few months.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u70	The communication wasn't alive.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u71	And instead of telling me why the press spokesman tells you that you asked for resignation and made it a garrison...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u72	That's not personal, Mr. Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u73	It's a intercept. And the President, whose sensitivity to democratic matters is known, had to withdraw you to order.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u74	Mr Minister, first of all you are not on the microphone and, unfortunately, you are not listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u75	Minister, they do whatever they want to do to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u76	Mr. Kedicoglou, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the third, with number 87/16-10-2017, a topical question from the Z's Vice-President of the Parliament and from Athens, Mr. Spyridonos Lykoudis, to the Minister for Migration Policy, on the subject of "Increased refugee flows", will not be discussed due to the absence of the relevant Minister, Mr. Musala, abroad. The first question under number 9217-10-2017 of the New Democracy MP, Isona Fotella, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "You will finally be given a solution to the issue of "AMIADIT"?", will not be discussed by the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Socrates Famelou, who has been invited by the University of Patras to speak at the 5th Panhellenic Conference "Greek Chemistry". The sixth question under number 9/2-10-2017, first question by MP Halkidiki, New Democracy Mr. George Vagionas, to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "The threat of a band for thousands of bakerys" will not be debated because of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development Mr. Alexander Haritsis, due to unsuccessful obligations. The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-20-S1-commons.u77	With the agreement of the House at 11.02 p.m., the sitting for the next Monday, 23 October, 2017, at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
