ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS We begin with the fourth question under number 353/21-11-2017 (A) by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the circular of the implementation of the programme for school meals. Mr Delis's timely question will be answered by the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr Gavroglou. Please, Mr Delis, you have the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is well known to you and to all of the Greek people the phenomenon of malnutrition in schools, a phenomenon which has already taken dramatic proportions, especially for poor people's families or families of migrants. After all, a recent UNICEF report says that about half of the children are at the limit - or even below it - of poverty. How has this issue of school school malnutrition been dealt with so far? By means of individual and fragmented programmes, to a large extent, of various private bodies, several of them engaged in so-called 'professional charity', programmes which under no circumstances have responded and could not respond to the need for a free meal for all children, with the responsibility and funding of the state in suitable areas and, of course, with the appropriate staff for this process. This year the government announced that these school meals are being extended to more schools and even made some ministerial decisions. In one of them - the latter in particular - it calls on the teachers' associations to set up three-member committees for the reception of meals from school teachers, which three-member committees will have not only the quantitative control of meals - how much these meals are - but also their quality control and even the composition of meals themselves. This process is planned, on the basis of the ministerial circular, from 11.00 to 12.45 hours, that is, the time the schools operate and that, of course, many of these teachers may at that time also have the obligation to study in class. I think this ministerial circular, Minister, is on a completely rough basis. I would also call it a'responsibility memorial' on the question of school meals because - and you of course know it - teachers do not have these technical knowledge. It is not their responsibility to check the quality and composition of meals. We will say again that the government is not dealing with this issue with the proper seriousness, organisation and responsibility that is needed. What we would like to ask you is what measures you will take to ensure that all the necessary conditions for the health and safety of students are met in order to accept this meal. Revoking this circular and, of course, not recommending these three-member committees and the responsibility for the delivery, quality control of meals to be the sole state responsibility of the Ministers for Labour, Social Security or of any other. Finally, allow those parents to state in the statement you are asking that their children receive this meal for the home, that is to say, only for those children who are in the full-day school to have the opportunity to take this meal home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u3	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u4	Thank you. First of all, to point out something you are avoiding, that during the governance of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL with a set of measures that we have taken a huge effort - and they have shown their results - to be able to help those parts of society that are poor, those parts of society that are at the immediate risk of total poverty. That is now recognized by everyone. Our society has seen with gratitude the whole of these measures that have been taken and we must stress that. So school meals are one of these arrangements that we have made. You know it's over a hundred and fifty thousand students feeding free of charge through school meals. Evidently, there must be parental consent. It is also very interesting that there has been no complaint as to the quality of the meals offered, which is of great quality. You said about undermining the young. Youth malnutrition is not a matter of quantity, as long as it is a matter of quality. There's a matter of obesity between the new children. Many times there is poor monitoring on the part of parents and parents about the importance of proper nutrition, and there we have taken too many initiatives to realize both the parents and the teachers, but especially the children of this type of issue. Now I want it to be clear that what we are asking the teachers - and it is very difficult not to ask for it, and the teachers have responded in a professional way and I can tell you how touching they are - is their contribution to making these meals work as best as possible. So what's going on? They come to school, receive them from teachers and then share them. The kids who are all day eat them at school. There's a small number of kids who, with their parents' agreement, take them home together. We think it is good to let life itself regulate certain things that go beyond ministerial decisions or laws. Here the vast majority of children in the whole day eat these meals in schools. A percentage of their own procedures and decisions are made at home. The main thing is that these meals satisfy the objective we have from the very beginning of feeding children from neighborhoods and from social strata that are currently under very serious economic pressure and we think that teachers are also doing this extra role that they are now given as social workers. They have a social function and we are truly grateful for the way in which they have taken this process on board. Now to be absolutely honest with you under ideal conditions this process should be from a banker's staff in schools, which would have the corresponding logistics infrastructure, etc. At the moment we cannot afford to appoint such a number of people in the budget. And we're trying in schools to do through the municipalities - because as you know, the municipality has it - and those interventions where the environment is as healthy as possible. However, overall for something that we have launched and is a very serious amount of money committed to the issue of meals, we consider it an excellent initiative, it goes very well, quality is excellent and we have the consensus and cooperation of all the parties involved. It is obvious that this is not something that the Ministry of Education does on its own. It is essentially the Ministry of Labour's initiative and we are making every effort to contribute to this initiative by the Ministry of Labour.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Delia, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. You said, Minister, in your answer to the issues we have raised, that we should actually let life solve these problems. You have shown no willingness to withdraw the circular you signed, but even to amend it. You started, of course, your position with the well-known words of SYRIZA, that you are trying to deal with the problems of the poverty of Greek society. I think, however, that this is where you made a mistake, because SYRIZA - ANEL is also an accomplice to the poorness of the Greek people since 2015, with its overall policy of course. Now, throwing one or two stinks on people's needs, such as the last social dividends, does not rebut the direction and insight of your policy. You also associated malnutrition with obesity. We must, however, tell you here that there is, of course, a relationship for the quality of the food of young people. But this is about, Minister, and about the available income, and how expensive quality food is in the end. What do you ask the teachers, really? You don't just ask them to measure the amount of meals, the portions that come for children. You are asking them, Minister, on the basis of your circular, to check the quality of food, even the composition of food, if it responds, and indeed the hours of those teachers have a lesson. How can this be done? You have justified that "in order to do so as we put it, ideal conditions would be needed". Is the conditions necessary, the right conditions, to be available at a school so that there are bankers, as they used to be? And last year, I think, several municipalities hired bankers to control these foods, to share them with children, to have the right space to feed children. Not a child in the same throne who writes his spelling, solves his exercises, makes his techniques, eats on that same throne. There is also a question of hygiene and we do not know what can be done with a disease that can be caused by microbes that will result from this process. We do not think these conditions are ideal, Minister. We think it is necessary. They are necessary if we really want this programme to work, and of course, as we say, it works for all the schools in the country. You have, of course, answered that, too. You said there is the financial difficulty. That's right. It does not fit - you must admit - this essential measure of social policy, to ensure a healthy meal for all children within your policy, and that is why you must admit that you will allow life itself to solve it. I think that the reason is now in the parents' associations, in the associations of teachers, who will have to claim even more and more strongly the rights of children and colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, too. Mr Gabroglou, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u8	Firstly, it is interesting, Mr Delis, that you refuse to accept that it is a positive measure. In the disaster you're bringing, you lose your point of view. Because let us both accept that we are dealing with a positive measure. By taking the view that this measure is a disguise which the government throws to poor strata, you are degrading the government's policy, which you have every right to do, but in some way you do not show the necessary respect for this world that needs it. It's not as many as tens of thousands of meals. It is a conscious effort by the government to help the poorest, so that we can all see how we are going to get out of the terrible consequences of the crisis. Secondly, you say that one of the reasons why children are undernourished is because of the accuracy of quality foods. Obviously, you only know that. Because food quality doesn't mean you go and buy expensive food. It's a matter of mentality, it's a matter of training, it's a lot of things together. So don't connect them all to a shape that is a dead end to its interpretative capabilities. You said the ministerial decision requires teachers to control quality. I don't think so. What we ask the teachers - and it's interesting that people do it, you have a problem with what they do - is to have a surveillance, trying to sample some of these boxes, the bags that come, see if there's a problem. That anyone who has a responsibility to share this type of food with should seek to do so. People are not neutral observers and they do, they have found ways. So when we tell you that 'Let life solve this kind of problem', it is obviously against an extremist stateist concept that you have, which all want to be defined by laws and rules. We therefore say that people among themselves have found a way to move this forward. So let us let this move forward, as it seems to work effectively, even with many imperfections. I already told you the flaws with the lack of a staff like bankers, etc. However, you should know that it is a measure which we should all welcome. We need to see how this everyday life will be improved and how these meals will be extended. I believe that Mrs Fotou, the Minister, has formulated from the Stepping of the House the prospects of this measure, which will be for even more children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, too. We continue with the first 312/17-11-2017 topical question by MP Evros of New Democracy Mr Anastasios Prussakis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Deserts the Democrat University of Thrace with the responsibility of the Minister of Education Mr. Gavroglou". Please, Mr Pssilakis, you have the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. This is not the first time that a legislative intervention by the Minister for Education has caused turmoil in the field of education. On the contrary, yes. It has become a habit of causing reactions to its unacceptable decisions, mainly with regard to legislating. This time, Mr President, he targeted regional universities, including the Democritus University of Thrace. Law 4485/2017, and in particular Article 76(1) thereof, mentions the characteristics: ‘It is authorised to move first-stage DPA members to the EITs of Attica and Thessaloniki, based in other prefectures, provided that these LPA members have completed at least fifteen years of service in the same section and in any step’. You understand, Mr President, that regional universities are being dissociated. They were hired to take responsibility for students, local communities and universities. Unfortunately, however, this accumulated bloomer did not return him. Thus, with the regulation made by the Minister, which is, in many cases, characterised by a photographic law - and in particular, this provision - we have serious staff problems. We already had such problems in our universities and in Democritus in particular. The main question is: Has the Minister predicted that they should be replaced? If so, how? Does he also know that fifteen first-line teachers of the Democritus University have already filed an application? Will he replace them even before they leave Thrace for the central universities? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to take this opportunity to draw attention to the fact that the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media has already adopted a number of amendments which have been tabled by the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and the Media. Evidently Mr. Insurgent isn't watching well. Mr Colleague, above all, you do not follow properly and what is being done with the law passed in August, which is applied with impressive positive results for all the EMIs in the country. With regard to what you have raised, it still does not seem to understand the procedure. What's the procedure? You're in a department and you're applying to leave and go to the alpha university. That application, first, must be approved by the general meeting of the Chamber itself. It must then be approved by the Senate of the institution, which usually includes all the Presidents of the Chambers, etc. Then it must be approved by the department in which you want to go to any other university and must be approved by the Senate of the other university. You already see how irresistible the camera device category is. I hope you understand that. Because here we have four academic bodies in which the state at least - obviously you have no confidence - happens to have absolute confidence. Because they're academics and they have the courage of their opinion. If they don't want someone to leave, they tell them not to leave. Be careful, however: Legislation has so far given you the right to go from one so-called regional university to another. We do not understand why the opportunity is given to go from one regional city to another, and you cannot go downtown after 15 years. We think it's a right they have. It's not an automatic right. It is a right they have through these procedures. And why they won't empty places in some universities to go to some other regional universities, as has been done. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] We in our positions, which are the result of barren elections, are indeed trying to give them to those institutions where such problems arise. However, let me tell you something else: because of the pathological way in which the cities have developed in our country, because of the difficulties surrounding cultural and other phenomena, where many of them are concentrated in large cities, etc., we must also take care of people on essentials so that they can go to these universities as well and know that they have that possibility. It's not automatic, like I told you. Otherwise, there is a risk that young colleagues will not be able to go to these universities if we tell them: 'Children, you have absolutely no way to get out of there'. I am not saying that it is a'safety' from which they must leave. But if people have that possibility. We also want very much - and we will regulate it and hope with new budgets that we also have the possibility of giving some financial support - to strengthen many of our central colleagues to go for a year or a year to these universities, not on a more permanent basis, so that they can also have an economic gain. So it is one way to break this weakness of communication between so-called regional and so-called central universities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Treasury, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, how do you guarantee that quality training conditions will be ensured at regional universities once all teachers are 'Aeroplanes', as they are called in the commonly spoken language? They're gonna migrate to the Urban S.H.I.E.L.D. Also, have you met the public administration in depth? Is there any transfer of an official of any grade, if he hasn't decided on a collective body? So, what are you telling us? Because the general assembly decided or decided, is that a guarantee?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u15	While, what's a guarantee? What's a guarantee?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u16	All transfers by members of the staff of the Greek State shall be made by means of collective decisions. The self-representation has been abolished. When he has this power under the law, can you not see that we will have the influx to the capital and Thessaloniki and we will not have the outflow that is imposed - and you have not foreseen it by your law - as far as regional universities are concerned? It is common belief in the ranks of the academic community that you seek to serve some with high ranks, no matter how well-functioning universities are. There's a situation and situations are yelling and circulating from office to office. And you want to take all these teachers from the regional universities. Why didn't you predict the opposite direction? You had the legislative authority to do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u17	But there's this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u18	Why didn't you give privileges and motives to these teachers go back to regional universities? You're also saying they're coming over for a year to teach at the central university. This is an obligation for the Greek state to extend their course of study, in particular in teaching, and you must do so. We want members of the Armed Forces and the Security Forces abroad for this mission so that when they return to be more informed and able to do their job better and more efficiently. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like to tell you that when you took over from the Ministry of Education, I was very pleased, because I appreciate and respect your origin. Because you come from the capital of Thrace, from Istanbul. And I thought you'd put your own touch on public education. But, unfortunately, I would like to say with full knowledge that you have disappointed me and the Thracians with the unfavourable decisions you have made and with the disrespect you have repeatedly shown. You didn't come to the Rector's Synod the other day, on Saturday, at the conference the Panhellenic Federation of Teachers and Scientific Personnel. You made decisions unfavourable to Alexandroupolis Pedagogical Department. You made unfavourable decisions regarding the Dean of the Democritus University. We have asked you two questions, and indeed, Mr President, all the Members of the New Democracy of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace. In particular, on 7 June 2017, we tabled the question under protocol number 6162, signed by Mr Panagiotopoulos, Mr Kyriazides and the speeches. Also on July 20, 2017, under number 7473, three MPs are on board. The Minister despises Eastern Macedonia and Thrace and did not respond to the representatives of the people, because he wanted people to be informed of the wrong decisions you have taken at the expense of our university. We blame you directly.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u19	You're welcome, Mr. Prussakis, you're about to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u20	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u21	The Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u22	First of all, I don't understand exactly what I'm supposed to say. But I'll try to respond calmly. You know, the responsibility for staying in the space that someone teaches or doesn't, the dean's got it. Therefore, if this is not complied with, responsibilities should be sought in the respective pre-regions. And, of course, I insist - it is the same thing I said before in the JRC - that you, too, have a logic that the Ministry might have to do. Within the logic of the self-employed at a university, these things should be solved among themselves. Secondly, you said that the transfers were made by collective decision-making. The general conventions and congresses are collective. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u23	I didn't say otherwise. You invoked it as an argument.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u24	But that's what you said. You say that every transfer takes place as a result of collective decision-making. Right? And I'm telling you that's exactly what's going on. So, do we agree that we are dealing with collective academic bodies that decide on academic criteria? Yes or no? So don't say something that doesn't exist. Incentives exist to go to regional universities. We in the policy that we are now pursuing, and we have the first extremely positive steps with the cooperation of universities and the TEI, are upgrading the academic status of these institutions. It is very important that we see what those issues are that are moved by scientists to go, stay, contribute, etc. as we have too many of these in very many regional universities. Incentives are primarily scientific, educational and research incentives. Now, I don't understand what you said we ignore Thrace and so on. With the Dean of Democritus University of Thrace there was a very clear report by public administration inspectors. We followed literally and sent it to the respective authorities, the prosecutors and the courts for the further. Why should you want to intervene in the justice process? Let's see what justice will say. We say a man is innocent until he proves otherwise. This does not mean, however, that he also has to carry out his duties. That is why, for example, we have the legal culture we have. We followed not dogmatically, but with impressive consistency the letter of the law on this case, and since then I have, although I have been provoked, made no statement at all because I want to let justice do its job. The day before yesterday, we were in Thrace. Looks like you haven't been informed. There was the Development Conference in Thrace and I saw the Senate of the Eastern Thrace TEI in Kavala. I had something personal happened, and I had to return the same day and the Secretary General of the Ministry of Education met with the Senate of the Democritus University. Based on statements by the Rector of the Democritus University of Thrace and the Rector of the Eastern Thrace TEI and the two meetings went impressively well. Now, as far as I let you down while waiting for me, as a man I was born and grew up in the city, I'm sorry to disappoint you, but it's not personal. The question is that we have a policy of dramatically upgrading TEIs and universities. This may not suit some, and this should be translated as disappointment. However, it is not a disappointment because of my origin as far as the government's policy that we want to pursue is disappointment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u25	Mr President, is there any possibility of tritology?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u26	As you know, there is no tritology from the Rules of Procedure. But you can speak with the Minister in private. You understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u27	I do not want to interfere with the Rules of Procedure. That's something I know. But if there's any possibility of tritology, I'm gonna have to answer it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u28	Yes, but the Minister will have to answer again, Mr Prussakis, so there can be no tritology. The Secretary-General of the Government, Mr Kalogerou, informs Parliament that the eighth timely question under number 101/17-10-2017 of the second cycle (B) of the MP from Athens of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Ilias Panagiotaras to the Minister for Health, on the subject: 'Ragda increase in measles in the country', will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister responsible. Also, the second question under number 303/14-11-2017 of the First Cycle (A) of the First Vice-President of the Parliament and of the Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The disasters in the Symi and the need to revise VAT policy and the end of the night", will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister. The second, with number 257/10-11-2017, top-circuit question (B) by the First Vice-President of Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Assent of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The financial losses from the end of the night" will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of Mrs. It is because of the parallel exercise of parliamentary duties. The first one under number 311/17-11-2017 first cycle (A) by the New Democracy MP Christou Kellas to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Serious problems in the schools of dispersion", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr. Zouri. The reason is that he will be in Crete as a representative of the government. The seventh question under number 191/30-10-2017 by MP Heraklion of the New Democracy, Eleftherios Aygenakis, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “Accessive”, the clearing of the outstanding debts of the EEAS, is not discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr Polakis, and in particular by a workload. The third, with number 365/21-11-2017, top-circuit question (A) by the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn, Ilias Cassidiari to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Populations in Attica: Compensation and rehabilitation measures for our affected fellow citizens", are not discussed because of the impediment of the Minister of Finance, Mr Tsakalotou, and in particular because of the parallel exercise of parliamentary duties. The second, under number 330/20-11-2017, topical question from Mr Attica of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Paraskevi Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Remuneration of persons affected by the murderous flood in West Attica", is not discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister of Finance Mr. Tsakalotou, in particular due to the parallel exercise of parliamentary duties. The third, with number 248/7-11-2017, topical question by MP Xanthi Xanthi of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Gregorios Stoyannides to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Following the licensed number of jobs in casinos", is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance Mr. Tsakalotou, in particular due to the parallel exercise of parliamentary duties. The fourth question under number 245/6-11-2017 of the Athens National Association - Golden Dawn, Eleni Zaroulia, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Financial costs of the attacks by para-state elements" are not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance, Mr Tsakalotou, and in particular due to the parallel exercise of parliamentary duties. The sixth Question No 215/3-11-2017 by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: “Difficult developments regarding the sale of EUCI “The National”, are not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance Mr. Tsakalotou, in particular due to the parallel exercise of parliamentary duties. The first question under number 265/10-11-2017 by MP Phytotida of New Democracy, Christos Stakos, to the Minister of Finance, on "Financing actions from criminal actions against the Greek State and making available for social purposes", is not discussed as a result of the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Juliarakis, and in particular due to the parallel exercise of parliamentary duties. The fifth, under number 237/6-11-2017, topical question by MP II of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Application of measures in favour of the small savers who lost their money with the debt cut in 2012", is not discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Finance Mr. Juliarakis, in particular due to the parallel exercise of parliamentary duties. The first question under number 164/21/5-10-2017 and application for documents (B) of the reporting cycle of the Deputy Laconia of the New Republic, Mr Athanasios Davakis, to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "The Unit of Studies and Construction (MOMKA) 2017", is not discussed, because the Minister of National Defence Mr. Kammenos has replied in writing and has nothing to supplement anything else. The fifth, under number 300/14-11-2017, top-stage question by MP I of the Thessaloniki Union, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: “Protection of real estate of up to 300,000 euros from auctions”, is not discussed due to lack of responsibility. The Ministry of Economy and Development is responsible. The second, under number 259/10-11-2017, topical question by MP I of the Association of Centres, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The operation of the Greek Open University (EPC)", is not discussed due to the obstruction of the MEP. The first, with number 266/10-11-2017, top cycle question (B) by MP Halkidiki of the New Democracy Mr. Georgios Vagionas to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Kary lacks of teachers in the schools of Halkidiki", is not discussed due to a blockade by the Member in question. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform the House that the New Democracy MP, Mr Ioannis Kefaloniann, is requesting permission from a few days' absence abroad in order to go to Germany and Belgium from 27-11-2017 to 30-11-2017 for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u29	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Also, MP II of the New Democracy, Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou, seeks permission from a few days' absence abroad in order to travel to France from 27-11-2017 to 1-12-2017 for professional reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u30	The House therefore approved the requested permission. We move to the fourth with number 258/10-11-2017 a topical question (B) by MP Serres of the Union of Centres Mr Anastasios Megamomoustaskas to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Musics are being sought at Serres Music School. Please, Mr. Megalustakas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u31	Minister, we are coming today to discuss a question that I had tabled on all six of this month. However, because of an impediment, I couldn't be here. On the same day, however, Mr. Bored's question was discussed on a similar subject for the Agrinio Music School. Unfortunately, the answers you have given do not fully cover us as well as the measures you have taken from there and then. As the shortages in teaching staff continue, the function of the Serre Music School can also be described as a residual function, unfortunately, as there are too many gaps and we should not deprive children of their right to learning. There are many missing - I repeat - teachers from the Serre Music School in basic courses and so there are gaps in instruments such as tabouras, folklore, viola, canteens, that you covered with an alternate teacher, clarinenic, violin and other organs, both traditional and classical. The discussions that we have had, both with the School Directorate and students and parents from the School of Music, highlight the problem and make us clear that the measures taken and the placements of certain teachers under contracts are not enough. Fifty hours aren't enough. The needs are close to the two hours of teaching. In fact, at the moment, teachers are working 'to the red' and constantly doing five hours overtime. You know very well that a school is not a fabric and that when a teacher has such a loaded program, most likely it will not yield at the rate that he has to perform in his educational work. We would therefore like to ask whether you intend to fully meet the needs of teaching staff at the Serre Music School, as well as the other Music Schools in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u32	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u33	I will not compare with my colleague in relation to the importance of the Music Schools. I hope you too will accept that we have made genuinely impressive moves in terms of staffing both the Arts and the Music Schools. Let me remind you that for this year's term of secondary education in the artistic schools in two thousand nine hundred six, or almost three thousand, recruitment and four hundred and thirty-five recruits especially for musical schools. Now you also know that recruitment of these people is always difficult, because it depends on how many children are asking for the teaching of this instrument. So within the very narrow financial framework that we are moving, we want it to be a sufficient number of children so that teachers can play the educational role they have to play. At this point I would like to read to you the specific recruitments we made at the School of Serres: a substitute for reduced working hours for musical training, a person for traditional violin, a violin for violincelo, one for theoretical courses for European music, as you ask me and ask for the violin, one for the contrabaso, a person for traditional percussions, a person for trifle bouquet, a person for oboe, one for sautour, one for saxophone, one for trumpet and one for a cubic. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] As I said, I have no doubt that what you say might be true. But know that a section of what you ask has already been satisfied and we have a problem that is indirectly related to your own school. Many times these colleagues have refused to go to the service because it is precisely a reduced working hours. I mean, they don't accept their recruitment and, bureaucraticly, they always delay the invitation to come to another person, who knows everything else. This is a common phenomenon, unfortunately, with people of reduced working hours. Obviously, all of these have a perspective solution, i.e. recruiting staff for the main institutions and wages or reduced working hours for the others. This is part of the overall problem of appointments. We hope that, as this year's situation is extremely much better than last year, next year is even more improved.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u34	Here you go, Mr. Megamystakas, you have the floor for your denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u35	Mr Minister, unfortunately your answer today does not cover us either. I have listened very carefully to what you said in your reply to Mr Bored. In fact, the area of education is an area on which we must invest, without accounting for the money, so that this development and the change we are calling for will come to our country. I personally cannot accept the fact that we have no money. We have to do our utmost to manage to fund these schools. You said yourself that the teachers who were recruited are reduced working hours and it is very normal that some of them refuse to come because they might also be financially injurious. You know very well that, when a man wants to work, he must have the corresponding earnings, otherwise he would be a volunteer. We are telling you that there must be a complete solution to the problem and that because as long as there are gaps, inequality is created in the education our children receive, and that is not what you want, neither you nor anyone - I think - in this Chamber. We would like a little more concrete answers as to whether the reduced working hours phenomenon will be eliminated and whether there will be teachers who will be there. I'm telling you again, as I said in my prototype, that working 'in red' can only create negatively. As long as there is a need, we should meet them with permanent teachers and teachers, who will be there all year round and provide all the necessary supplies to the children who need it so badly. The choice of a child to go to a music school is not simple. It is something that will later give great benefits to our society and we must ensure that to them. We cannot go half the way on any of the issues of education. You know that very well, and I know that because we've been having conversations. However, we would like a little more specific answers to our question if the two-hour gaps that we have are to be filled. I'm telling you, having had discussions with the school director, that the staff you've given only covers 50 of the two hours they need. We would like a little more concrete answers, as we believe that the area of education is not a space for experimenting or leaving any gaps. We hope that the whole problem will be resolved as quickly as possible and as quickly as possible because of the lack of teaching staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u36	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u37	Because there may be a confusion among those who are listening to us, it may be clear that these are recruitments for specialist courses, because in music schools, which have a huge cost - and you recognize that - there is the curriculum and there are specific courses. Specific courses are not attended by all children. It depends on what a child has inclination, what choices he makes, etc. So our methodology - given the general situation - is to satisfy the teachings of those institutions with greater demand and to try to respond - wherever possible - to demand for the other institutions. However, it is not a problem that will be solved as a whole by permanent appointments. This is where very specialized people are needed. The reason these people don't usually go to school is that pay for reduced working hours is indeed too low. That's what you're right about. It is not that at the moment we are not providing this possibility. But you will also accept that permanent appointments must be in those areas where this demand exists and there the workers must have the full working hours that a permanent teacher has to have. I insist that, as far as the requests come to us, which we are considering - and it is not, as you know, the only music school - we have a very specific line from which we can pay this world. We are really trying to satisfy all these needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u38	Thank you very much. We move to the third with number 296/14-11-2017 a topical question for the second (B) question from the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Health, on the problems of the Psychiatric Clinic of the University General Hospital of Heraklion (PAGN). Mr Van den Broek, President-in-Office of the Council. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the President-in-Office of the Council on his excellent report. One request: Because there is the Conference of Presidents, to which I must be present, we must respect each other's time. Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. I shall try to be brief - as far as I can - in the context of the time given to the other Members. Minister, you know that in recent years more and more people have been looking for help in public hospitals for mental health problems. The Psychiatric Clinical of PAGNE accepts a very large volume of nurses. This has the effect of increasing ranzas continuously, which has evolved into a permanent phenomenon. The thirty-five beds with two short-stay and acute areas, which it has are not sufficient, and in fact it had to have fifty and fifty-five beds. This poses serious problems for patients and staff. People are hospitalized, who should have been transferred to similar public structures or hostels, such as chronic residual patients or people dependent on psychotropic substances and alcohol, who should be hospitalised in a double-diagnostic hospital. The same is the case with other patients with serious social problems, even with homeless people, who resort to the clinic, further burdening its function. Also, the clinic has only one social worker and a visitor of health, with the result that, in the absence of or during summer leave, there is no replacement. Finally, while there are pre-built spaces for patients, they are not being used because of a lack of staff, while the overall situation of the clinic and from the point of view of the spaces and from the point of view of the technical specifications is facing chronic and serious problems. Similar problems, perhaps more, are faced with the Psychiatric Clinic of Chania. We ask you, Minister, what measures will you take to increase the available beds in PANGNE's Psychiatric Clinic with the simultaneous intake of permanent staff, to create psychiatric clinics and structures, as well as a network of mental health, with appropriate full-time and permanent staff, as well as the creation of state and free-of-the-art structures, hostels for chronic mental patients and structures for people dependent on substances and alcohol. I also make a practical announcement to the Association of the University Hospital. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Syntrakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] Finally, Mr Minister, I would like to ask a question that is urgent and worthwhile, Mr President, to give an answer. It concerns the thirty-nine auxiliary workers at the Military Hospital of Attica, recruited by the first health region under a one-year contract. The conventions for some expire on 29 November and for the others in the next few weeks, so that these workers are in danger of losing their jobs. While you extended the contract for another year, to all the other subsidiary, these have been excluded. So we are asking you what measures will you take to prevent any employee subsidiary from being fired at military hospitals by applying the measure of extending the contract for at least one year and, of course, legalising all subsidiary workers, making massive recruitment of permanent full-time and full-time permanently and permanently.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u40	Please, Mr. Synatiakis, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u41	Finally, the payment of the subsidiary is pending. You must give a solution and this solution must be a policy, regardless of the intentions of the Court of Auditors, Commissioners or, in any case, the ones who approve the payments. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u42	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u43	Dear colleague, it is true that in the time of the crisis, the need and demand for public mental health services have increased. We know very well that unemployment and poverty are increasing the mental vulnerability of people. Just because there was a very negative interference in the functioning of the public health system in previous years, in the adequate staffing and performance of public structures, there were indeed uncovered needs at this time. Let me say that psychiatric reform is a progressive vision, a vision of asylum transformation in structures close to the community, will provide decent and human care and focus on the psychosocial support of citizens, who have mental illnesses. This psychiatric reform, therefore, while it had spent a fairly important and positive life in the past twenty years, has improved in the period of crisis. There was a pact, which set certain timetables, which could not be complied with, which was by the end of 2015. What we have done, is to renegotiate this pact and ensure a gradual and sustainable relaunch of this reform, strengthening public structures and creating a decentralisation in the management of the health system with No 4461/2017. In this way, we support the creation of addresses per region and overcome the centralization of the whole mental health service system by the management of the Ministry. These are institutional changes, therefore, which we have promoted at the moment. The big question, of course, is the real state of public structures. Indeed, at the psychiatric clinic of Heraklion University Hospital there is an objective problem. We also have a lack of beds and a lack of building infrastructure. It is thirty-three beds available, i.e. twenty-three regular and ten in the acid segment. Of course, there are ten beds from the short-stay guesthouse and there are six beds in protected apartments. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Allow me, Mr President. The planning of the development of these services has a title, called sectoralization. Dear colleague, rancha there are unfortunately also psychiatric clinics in general hospitals, especially here, at Attica Lefkade. What for? Because psychiatric clinics are not developed in the general hospitals in the region, so all the incidents are congested, especially those with an involuntary public prosecutor's mandate. So this has created a problem. We have launched the operation - and, in our view, the solution is to quickly put them into operation - seven departments in hospitals in the region, from Karditsa, Corinth, Polygirl of Halkidiki, the Hippocrates of Thessaloniki, etc. So it can really work to trim in every mental health sector. For example, Crete has two areas. It is the sector of western Crete and the sector of Eastern Crete. The provision for Eastern Crete - which is Heraklion and Lassithi - is to add twenty more beds, that is, ten at Venizelio, but that depends on the completion of the expansion, which is in progress and is funded by the NSRF, and ten at the Hospital of Agios Nikolaos, because the Lassithi Prefecture does not have any psychiatric clinic. It only has primary structures. So the solution is that. We are looking for the possibility of having a short-term hospitality hostel with more possibilities, that is, from ten to fifteen and also from now on, we have arranged for more paedophiliatric beds to develop and reach the number of ten. This is the case with regard to the adequacy of beds and building infrastructures in itself. There is, unfortunately, no possibility in the university hospital to develop more beds. So the solution is to decentralise this to two other hospitals. That, of course, takes a transitional period. I think 2018 will be the year, which will be the year, taking advantage of and hiring staff, which we have launched, to pass on to this new function, which will decongested the psychiatric clinic of the university hospital. Here I must say that this clinic has been supported by human resources. We hired a further two permanent NSA doctors.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u44	Minister, you have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u45	Just to say about the staff, Mr President. We hired two permanent NSA doctors. We hired an adjunctive doctor and they told me that last Tuesday, 21 of the month, he was sworn. A colleague was hired in a personal capacity and we increased the posts of qualified staff from five to eight and have now been occupied and working seven qualified doctors. So, we have a substantial increase of six doctors, four specialists and two specialists in the department, and at the same time, there are six people from the 7K notice, who are in progress for permanent staff or positioning them: one RU, two psychologists, one TNU, a TNU social worker and a TNU nurse. They have made the ADP with temporary results, and we are pushing things so that the process can move quickly so that early next year they have taken up work and that the clinic and human resources are substantially strengthened.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty-eight students and students and five educational attendants from the Rallios Experimental Gymnasium of Piraeus. The House welcomes you, while we know that the timely question you are following is the last to the ministers today, so you see that there are no Members in the Chamber. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Synthrakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u47	The Minister did not reply in relation to the assistants.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u48	In my dentistry, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u49	That's good in your denture, because they're waiting for the workers to give them a concrete answer. From that point on, you said that the situation in psychiatric clinics is an objective problem. You recognize it. At the same time, however, you described a drafting, in some ways, of the government, but referred to in the future. Allow me to say that what is referred to in the future is essentially referred to as the bells. In fact, you have said features that there is no possibility at this stage. Why is that not possible? Don't you have the mechanisms? Don't you have the staff? You do not have the knowledge or the current financial circumstances do not allow the implementation of such a plan, which you realise requires related costs. So the government cannot effectively solve these acute problems of psychiatric health, as well as the general issues of hospitals in the country, precisely because it is committed to European Union policy. For example, in Lassithi you opened a clinic. That does not mean that the problem has been solved, under no circumstances. On the contrary, due to the increased needs and supply of the clinic, demands grew and increased. You opened it with an auxiliary PAGNE doctor. I mean, you took him from PAGAN and took him there. This, of course, is good for the worker, because the position was opened in Agios Nikolaos. But you didn't make up for him with another worker. You are now saying that "they will come" etc. These "will" are similar to all the other "will" of the appointments and recruitments of thousands of doctors and nurses throughout the country and in all hospitals. Besides, there is too much medical staff, therapists, social workers and other specialties. So the situation in the psychiatric clinic has exceeded the level of safety for both patients and workers. You also didn't say about pre-empting patients. I would like to inform you that the address of the clinic has been addressed to the region, and in turn it has referred to the HR. If the HR, he said, gives the ‘ok’ to the region, can be integrated into a funding programme. It's so simple! The question is why don't you do that. In other words, give the relevant approval so that the funding will go ahead and the yard will grow for the patients. I repeat, the same is the case with Chania. It makes sense, therefore, that there are no conditions of peace, despite the valuable and hard work of the staff, so that the services provided are degraded. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In the JRC's view, and I shall end with that, Mr President, all these problems are not just a negligence of the Ministry, the government, the administration of a hospital. It is - let me - the result of the reactionary core of the notorious psychiatric reform of your Government, namely the political strengthening of the freight character of mental health services. I would just remind you that, before becoming a government, you supported the "Psympathetics", which was also the epitome of the European Union in mental health, with the privatisation of state structures, based on the good interests of individuals in the field, NGOs, private companies with full state funding, etc. In fact, you also accused the JRC at that time of resisting the closure of public psychiatric hospitals and, indeed, called us barbaric and primitive. You have, of course, expressed the previous programme by 2015, the so-called 'Agreement Ador', which allegedly concerned decommissioning, but which, in fact, led to the dismantling of structures.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u50	Please complete your time, Mr. Synergy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u51	So we are coming back, and we ask you: will you, here and now, give a solution to the problems of mental health, with what practical means, with doctors, with nurses, with other staff, with permanent and stable work, so that the problems of the subsidiary can be solved and that people can work and that we do not have the stress each time with public hospitals? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u53	My dear colleague, I fear that there is indeed a problem of understanding the progressive core of psychiatric reform. Psychiatric reform, dear colleague of the JRC, is a progressive demand from all progressive psychiatrists and mental health professionals around the world. It cannot - it is tragic, let me, in love, say it - the JRC appears to defend an immunity logic and an immunity culture in psychiatric care.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u54	It's a distortion of what you're saying!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u55	Listen. It's not a distortion. I'll read to you the part that my colleague has put forward. He says, "The situation is exacerbated by the fact that over the last fifteen years, due to government policy, psychiatric structures such as the Psychiatric Center of Chania have been closed down over time." Welcome to the Psychiatric Hall of Chania, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to Corfu Psychiatric. Others will close and must obviously be closed with a plan, ensuring that people do not stay on the road, that there is provision for Community structures, hostels, boarding houses, sheltered apartments in the community. They're closing the psychiatrics. You cannot appear in favour of a model in the name of public psychiatric care, dear colleague. I really want you to understand this and see things differently. We therefore say that psychiatric reform must be completed. This can't be from one day to the next. It needs a great deal of investment in resources, of course. The austerity, which has been imposed in the country, objectively restricts, but in these difficult circumstances, we have a plan for gradually developing public structures. I'm telling you now about seven new psychiatric clinics in general hospitals that will be put into operation. We have designed what used to be called medical centers. Now they are called local, say, mental health structures for children and adolescents. We are developing the system gradually, obviously with available human and material resources. I told you about a permanent staff recruitment plan at this clinic. It's a mistake to make an overconcentration, hypertrophic psychiatric clinic somewhere. The solution is small decentralized clinics, in all prefectures, which will ensure - and what is important - the mentally ill, the proximity to the family and the social environment. This case of psychiatric care is very sensitive. In my view, it is also the great deficit, if you wish, of the social state in our country, that is to say, in the area of mental health and in the area of rehabilitation, rehabilitation, psychosocial support, end-stage care, our deficit is dramatic and there is a huge gap between our country and the other developed countries of Europe. That is where we have to move and that is where we have to plan in the next phase, the memorial period, which I believe we will have more potential both in terms of resources and in terms of primary planning, if you like. I told you what the solution is. We try to run fast and have additional twenty available psychiatric clinics in Heraklion and Lasithi. This will decongested catalysts and I fully agree that the human potential is having a hard time today, is being pressed, is working under adverse conditions. With regard to pre-supplying, the information I have obviously is that it has been provided with some of the interventions that have been made, the pre-syllabus, the reform of the intangible space for the pediatric clinic, and now the children who are hospitalized there have a more human and decent living and care. The level of safety, my dear colleague, guarantees that human resources. We have excellent scientific and other staff, mental health professionals, who really exceed themselves and provide decent care. The effort is being made to support this human resource in addition to either permanent staff with either subsidiary staff or even flexible staff - as you say - working relationships. For example, we have strengthened PAGNE's Paedophiliac Clinic. You remember the problem of funding through ESDP. We have strengthened it with nine people, doctors and other staff, at this time and with blocks, just to meet the most urgent needs. For us, therefore, the mental health sector is a sector of special sensitivity and there is a question of removing inequalities and supporting weak people. That is why it has to be very high on the health policy agenda. That is what we are doing and we are trying in a holistic way to approach the issues. As far as - and I close - the issue of subsidiary staff, which I think is right, I think my colleague put it, first of all, we have a problem with the non-payment at this time of some of these about a thousand doctors and other workers in connection with the work of subsidiary staff, which we provided by law for an extension of their contracts by the end of 2018. We had negative acts by some of the Commissioners of the Court of Auditors throughout the country who, invoking constitutional law issues, refused to approve the warrants, although, of course, the money was there and our political will was very clear, these people were in their positions because they offered real work, they met real needs and we did not in any case want to risk the proper staffing and functioning of the departments. We are in consultation with the Court of Auditors. We have explained this to the workers last week who were mobilised. We are making an effort these days to deal with it on a permanent basis and to remove the situation. Especially for military hospitals, this issue was raised to me the other day. I didn't have a good picture of those thirty-nine people you're talking about. Since they were hired through the First EAW, we will see the possibility of subjecting themselves to the same regime in terms of extension and, of course, we will guarantee the timely payment of their entrants. Right now we owe October and this month. I believe that in the next few days we will have a positive development from the Court of Auditors in order to close this pending situation, which troubles the workers and creates a climate of tension in hospitals, which we do not want to see, because we believe that the worker at this difficult time must feel that the state fulfils the essential obligations towards him, particularly the obligation to pay in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u56	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now be adjourned and will be back at 13.00 with the New Democracy's topical question: 'Sales of missiles by the Greek Missile Army and air bombs by the Hellenic Air Force in Saudi Arabia by Inter-American Agreement'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY The debate will take place at number 9/8-11-2017 on the current question of the Members of the New Democracy of Kikilia, Anastasios (Tashus) Session, Konstantinos Tsiras, Savvas Anastasiadis, Spyridon - Adonidos Georgiadis, Athanasios Kavada, Stavros Kalafatis, Simos (Simos) Kedicoglou, Ioannis Kefkoyannis, George Koutsakou, Konstantinos Tasula, Evangelou - Vasilios Meimarakis, to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: “Sale of missiles of the Greek Army of Xeroglis and air bombs of the Hellenic Air Force in Saudi Arabia with an international agreement”. Our debate will take place in accordance with Rule 135 of the Rules of Procedure. In particular, only the Member or Members who sign the question or the Minister responsible are involved in the debate. The President of the Parliamentary Group, to which the honourable Members belong, may exceptionally, in exceptional cases, develop the question for 10 minutes after the first questioner, and he or his alternate may take part in the debate, under the conditions laid down in Rule 97(1) to (3) and (5). The President of any other parliamentary group or its alternate may take part in the debate, after the Heads of State and Government's reply, for only one half of the time referred to in Article 97(1) to (3), that is to say for eight minutes. As the debate we are going to hold today has been very dreadful, I would like to remind you that Rule 135(5) expressly states that the debate on questions is confined solely to the subject mentioned in the question text and is concluded within a meeting. Any other issue, similar to or relevant to the question of questioning, shall not be discussed, without prejudice to Article 137. I would therefore remind you of the basic provisions governing today's debate. I think the JRC Members have also come. So let's start with the questions. The speech is made by MP Ioannina of the New Democracy Mr Constantine Tasoulas, who is the first questioner for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u58	Madam President, you will tolerate the fact that I intend to speak on this matter alone. I'm asking for your grace. Why are we here today, ladies and gentlemen? We are here today because the New Democracy considers that agreements on the disposal of military ammunition, taken after almost unanimous approval of the Committee on Arms of Parliament, are not based on a transnational agreement, as Mr Kammens has falsely assured the committee and has taken its vote, but it is an agreement, signed by a mediator, which is forbidden by the law, but forbidden by Mr Kammens' previous behaviour, regardless of the law. For Mr Kammenos - as he is well-known - has taken a career as an intermediary exterminator and has contributed to the concept of'medium' being considered synonymous with the word'medium'. How did we learn that Mr. Kammenos deceive the House and did not sign an transnational agreement on the disposal of military material? We learned that because the Minister of National Defence, Mr. Kammenos, offended on August 30, the Army's Supreme Official by ordering his temporary detention to the lobbyist of his office, because he obviously did not obey his wishes to implement and cover the private agreement and not the transnational agreement. This senior officer submitted a memo, which after one week leaked to the press. I will not dwell on any detail of this memo. I was only surprised by a few words in the memoir of the memo. He said this Brigadier, who was offended by the Minister of National Defense: "Because I have thirty-five years of good service without misconduct in my file and because I honor the name that I inherited from my father, I am making this record to protest about your insulting behaviour." Minister, the emblem of the General Staff of National Defence has an excerpt from something that Glaucos said in Iliad: We all know the "wonderful aristocratic". There is something after that that says "no father's generosity." I won't tarnish the name of my parents. Officer has been held in charge of HNDGS by the Security Officer of HNDGS - the same security officer, who, I suppose, Mr. Minister, was unable to keep Ruvikon, but was able to keep a commander of the Greek army - and we were informed of all these facts. Who are we to know these facts? It is us, Minister, who, three years now, at eighteen meetings of the Committee on Armaments, we are voting for all the suggestions brought by the Ministry of National Defence, in order to contribute to the availability of equipment and technical means, and we have never commented on these issues. The New Democracy since the beginning of your term has supported you with all the suggestions from the staff, in order for this rotten period for the army, for the Armed Forces, at least the Parliament's Armed Forces Committee to help deal with the serious problems of availability that the Armed Forces have. What happened to this deal? What's this deal? The country's Armed Forces decided in two meetings of the Parliament's Armed Forces Committee to divest easy but excess military material, three hundred thousand cartridges and one thousand air bombs of a thousand and five hundred liras. The assurances received in order to divest this usable, but surplus material, were that it was a transnational agreement. The transnational agreement on the basis of the law is the one which does not allow mediation, as is said by Law 3978/11, mediator, agent or mediator. The assurances of both the Minister in the committee, as well as the heads of staff and the Deputy Minister, did not only include the description of this transfer, but also gave the definition of the transnational agreement. At the meeting of March 29, 2017, in which Mr Vitsas, Deputy Minister of National Defence, answered questions by MPs and SYRIZA and the New Democracy describes the concept of the transnational agreement: "So we cannot make a transaction with someone because it is not a state, not because the other one says that I am a state or a representative state. That's not how these things happen. The signatures must be signatures of state actors and all this process I have said needs to be done." Signatures of state actors. Why does it matter in our vote that the agreement is transnational? It is important for reasons of transparency, after an orchestra of suspicion and corruption, and it is important for diplomatic reasons. We support and support these decisions, because the transnational agreement also guarantees transparency and diplomatic benefits for the country. So let's see what's actually going on. On 12 January 2017, the Parliamentary Equipment Committee, which since 2010 has been undergoing and is engaged in the prior examination and monitoring of armaments, approved the divestment of three hundred thousand explosive cartridges by transnational agreement. The Minister assured the committee that: "Now we are in a conversation with Saudi Arabia. It is likely that an agreement will be developed that will reach 300,000 million. We'll let you know about the final price. It can go to 80'. He didn't let us know. It finally went to 66, but it hasn't been implemented so far. "We want full knowledge on the part of the Equipment Committee in all programmes, because these democratic processes ensure complete transparency." No discounts! Absolute transparency! "There is a written offer and there is a committee that visited the country." At the same meeting, the then head of SGS says: “The commission saw these ammunition. Transnational security ensures better security for where they are going, rather than give it to some company, which you don't know where to end up." We note that the finding of the surplus material of 300,000 cartridges of the General Staff was made a year ago, i.e. by a decision of July 1916. We note - for those who are suspicious - that one month before July 1916 that the GES decided on this excess, Mr Vassilis Papadopoulos - who then appeared as an intermediary or representative of Saudi Arabia, during Mr Kammendha - had submitted, one month before the crisis, a written request to the Ministry of National Defence, which he asked, one month before it was considered to be a 300,000-o-o-conflict! - 300,000 bullets, but for the state of Jordan that was then designated as his client. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] What happened next and after that decision? The committee responsible, the Directorate-General for Equipment of the Ministry of National Defence, is responsible for signing the Agreement. The officials of this Office, from the Director-General to the last officer, consider that this agreement should be signed with a state official, as defined by the transnational agreement, as Mr Vitsas defines the transnational agreements, as defined by logic, as defined by Mr Kammenos's morale against intermediaries, irrespective of the law, and as the practice defines. We know - we have learned that there is a vague, irresponsible, vague mandate from an irresponsible Saudi colonel in May of '16 to the alleged mediator Papadopoulos, with whom he is generally authorised and unregulated to negotiate for the disposal of military material. This letter does not convince members of the Directorate-General for Defence Equipment or Defence Supplies and seek through the embassy's diplomatic path in Riyadh a certificate for an official who will sign it. Our embassy in Riyadh is telegraphed after receiving this '16 mandate that Arabs have no idea who he is and want transnational agreement with a state official, government with a government.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Tasouula, will you use your dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u60	No, no, I'm done. We're on June 13th. The Directorate General has not been convinced that he is a state official. They hold meetings and Mr. Kammenos calls for a two-hour retired admiral who has recalled the energy and is a general director. After a two-hour presence in his office, he leaves with a military aircraft C-27 for Thessaloniki, where he signed an agreement at the airport of Mikra with a private company representative, with a stamp "Olympic Industry" and a retired Admiral Admiral Representative of the GAAP. The following day of this signature, for the transfer of 300,000 cartridges, officials of the Department of Defence of the Directorate-General for Equipment, in the reverse information process, describe the whole story, describe the fact that they were looking for an official and signed with a private person in a document, which they sign hierarchically. Since then, silence. The issue - I repeat, and I close - has been learnt from the beginning of November by a loss of the incident with the Brigadier. On 20 September Mr Kammens answered the question, he said that the Arabs and their representative had not complied with the agreement: 'Until 1 October I would have invited them and imposed them on them what they think is the responsibility of the agreement'. We arrived at the end of November 2017. It has not imposed any consequence, it has not informed anything. He replied that he simply called the Ambassador of Saudi Arabia five months later, without telling us what has happened. What is going on, ladies and gentlemen? It is true that the Committee on the Armed Forces' Armed Forces has been explained, a critical committee on the availability of the Armed Forces. It happens that Mr. Kammenos texted her approval, made an agreement with a private mediator. This agreement was unable to proceed, because it obviously does not represent Saudi Arabia. The strange thing is that it insists on this agreement and insists that it is transnational. It's a sad, dark, unpleasant case, which proves that everything that's happened in the past has not taught us anything. Instead of exploiting the support and good faith and constructive attitude of the Opposition, it abuses these elements, thereby not only insulting the Armed Forces, but also undermining the functioning of a committee whose proper and reliable functioning - which is undermining - is a fundamental precondition for issues of vital importance to the Armed Forces. We point out these facts. We point out our goodwill and constructive attitude, and we insist that this agreement was made with a mistrust of Parliament. It is a mediator agreement, a disgraceful agreement for Greece, a disgrace to Mr Kammenos and we ask the Prime Minister to act accordingly not by persuading us in words, but by persuading us with actions. Unfortunately, there are many evil-faithful people in this country who will think after all that the Ministry of National Defense to Mr. Kammenos was not a return to support for the government, but they will say, these poor believers and we will not be able to answer them that it was not in return or prize, but it was a reward!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u61	Mr. Tasouula, you've exceeded your dentistry by two minutes. There's no way I'm gonna allow you to do a second. I'm talking about the next one. They're seven MPs. It is not possible to exceed time. This process will last a long time already. I say this to keep it in mind and concentrate your positions. The next speaker is Mr Davakis. Come on, Mr. Davaki. You've got five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u62	With a slight tolerance, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u63	That's what the Rules of Procedure say. You invoke him, so I'll invoke him as president. And you have three minutes of dentistry, if you want to say it all once and for all.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u64	Madam President, we call for the Rules of Procedure not on matters of time, but on other matters. On matters of time, break him all the time. Ladies and gentlemen, New Democracy today controls the Minister of National Defence for the way in which he handled the mood file in Saudi Arabia of three hundred thousand service thousands of unnecessarily unnecessarily needing firearms of five millimetres. In particular, it controls him on various issues raised, for decisions, acts, omissions at six specific time points. If you wish, note what I'm about to say, because you didn't notice before. In May 2016, a letter was filed by the Sr. of Saudi Arabia Adele Al-Saif Deputy Director of Armed Forces and Munitions of the Saudi Arabian Armed Forces. This letter, which we have in our hands and you have returned to us, does not seem to have any protocol numbers. We don't know who picked her up, when, from whom she got it and what state file she kept. It is a personal correspondence of the Greek Minister of National Defence with a Colonel of the Saudi Air Force. Do you have personal mail? In other words, the Colonel of the Air Force is reported to the country's Minister of National Defence. With the little I know - because I had not financed a Minister, like you - as State Secretary, I know that the Colonels are not referring to the ministers directly. That is what we see from this document. This letter, as we have said, refers to you. He also mentions Mr Vassilis Papadopoulos as the legal representative of Saudi Arabia. For the completion of the agreement, has the arms and ammunition management, represented by the Colonel legal capacity to grant such authorisations? Also, it is very interesting that the Saudi Air Force is interested in buying artillery missiles. Did this document, Mr Kammenos, relate to general-purpose air bombs and not to artillery missiles? Is there a document of the competent authority of Saudi Arabia specifically confirming the country's interest in three hundred thousand artillery missiles? Note this question, because I'll ask you something else later. On 4 September 2016, the Greek ACA, i.e. Akoluthos Defence, sends a letter to the AKM Department of the Ministry of Defence of Saudi Arabia asking to know whether the letter of the Colonel, I told you earlier, is authentic. That's all. We have no other question. In short, even after confirming the authenticity of the letter, the main question remains whether the Armed Forces and Missiles Directorate, whose Deputy Director Al-Saif, the gentleman I told you earlier, is indeed entitled to grant authorisation. This document is important because it legalises and starts the whole process. On January 12, 2017, the subject of the debate is the subject of the debate in Parliament's Committee on Equipment. Many of your colleagues in the Committee on Equipment may remember. Until then, a lot has been done. The committee knows nothing. The information note on the missiles you gave us is four pages. And there is neither Saudi Arabia nor Mr Papadopoulos. So there I ask you, and I say in particular in the Minutes of the House: "About the missiles, Minister, of the hundred five millimetres, the Minister has said that there has been interest in Saudi Arabia. Do we have any evidence that we can assess the reality of what you're telling us? Because we have usually heard a lot of you, but we have not." And I continue: "I think that the three hundred thousand missiles of this size are too much to take away a state such as Saudi Arabia, which, as I know, has some atrocities with a group of rebels in Yemen." Mr. Friend's mentioned that. The answer you gave me, if you remember, was the well-known - I would say - ironic answer: “What do I care about? I want to get rid of them. What I care what they will do with them, and what I care about what they will do with them." You can understand that he is giving rise to new questions in this respect. The Convention shall be signed on 13 June 2017.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u65	So you're reading my answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u66	Don't interrupt, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u67	I'll read it later because I don't have time. The answer is what I told you, Minister. You say: "As far as Mr Davakis' questions are concerned, there is a written offer on the Saudi side. There is the committee that visited the country then and the negotiations took place, otherwise we would not bring it to the House. Now if you want to see it, why don't you think, come and see it. I'd love to. As far as this country is going to make use of it, I am in a difficult position. I don't know why he wants the ammunition, etc.” The Convention shall be signed on 13 June. He leaves the plane C-27 Spartan with Mr. Kyriakidis, Director of GGAE, pressed at the airport of Thessaloniki, comes Mr. Papadopoulos from Kilkis and we sign. Moreover, if someone reads the contract text, because we have all made fans or something else, this was not a contract text for cheese pies in CCTMs. Not even for Orange single - cheesepipes CYM, but that's what others will judge. On 22 June the Foreign Ministry's recommendation - I do not see Mr Kotzias here today - was sent to the Ministry of Economy with a notification to the Ministry of Finance about granting export licences for the Olympic industry, etc. Looks like I wasn't the only one who was worried. There the Minister for Foreign Affairs tells you, Minister, various things: "Between which we consider it important to ensure that this export is submitted by the competent authority of Saudi Arabia, a certificate of verification of the receipt of materials in addition to the relevant provisions of this transnational agreement." In addition, Mrs Lubbaku's document says: 'We owe her for our part'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u68	Who?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u69	It is addressed to the Ministry of Economy with notification to you, which is the main factor in the whole case. "For our part, however, we should point out that it would be appropriate and useful for the view of the NSA for the above company." More generally, he also asks the NSA for information on companies that are not registered in the Register of Defence Material Manufacturers. And because you have asked who is sending the document, I will tell you that tomorrow we have received an invitation from Mr Vitsa that we have a meeting of the Standing Committee on Equipment - I will not say the point of view of why it is classified - to activate a programme for the supply of tyres. There, therefore, in your briefing, it is stated that with regard to the possibility of cooperation with the Russian Federation for airplanes, inflatable inflatables are the airlocks - the A5 Directorate of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with the document has received an opinion from the Special Legal Service of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and has announced that there is no objection to cooperation with Russia, as described in a document on the subject of the General Staff of National Defence, including in the national repair situation. It means, in other words, that the questions I have asked you - but I think you have a lot of perception, you will remember them - are specific. And I would like specific answers, as is what is requested to update the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and it also refers to the relevant briefing sent to us by Mr Vitsats. Minister, I feel that the responsibility of the Ministry of National Defence is to your shoulders not for anything else, but for the role, the reasons and all that constitute the idea of military officials and all that we are concerned with today is inconsistent with what you are managing at the Ministry of National Defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u70	Mr. Davakis and you covered the dentistry. Eight minutes and forty-six were. Forty-six were the Minister's holidays. Please, we won't play here or we'll do a process or not.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u71	Keep it to everyone and always.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u72	Everybody! Has anyone else spoken, Mr. Varvichiotis? Did he talk? [[Noise in the Chamber]] Calm down now. Today, it's a meeting. You know how diligent I am in general. But it won't happen here so long.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u73	No, Madam President, this is not the case. The speakers have not used any dentistry. You should have interrupted the speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u74	I told Mr. Davaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u75	You interrupt them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u76	What should I interrupt? I have said this since the first time that anyone who exceeds time will be offset by dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u77	Madam President, there is no way. You have the right to interrupt the speaker. Correction to dentistry will not be done. Discontinue the speaker when his prototype is over. It's your responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u78	All right, Mr. Voridis, we'll do it to see what's going to change. You're seven nomadics, and you've been telling the whole story so far. We've read it in the papers. Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u79	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here on an extremely serious subject, and I state in advance that, despite my character, I will not respond to any personal references, although since the Minister of National Defence is doing on various issues regardless of this debate, not for any other reason, but because today the Greek people need to understand exactly what has happened. Because today the Greek people receive rainy information unbelievable. Yesterday, for example, the Minister of National Defence delivered the document - to which Mr Davakis referred earlier, to which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs warned him and Mr Papadopoulos and asked him to be informed by the National Information Service of his - to a Greek agent of MIT, named Mr. Hadjisavvas. That's what he did retweet, that's what the Minister of National Defence announced yesterday to the Greek people. And after a few hours, of course, the specific document has been found, and it is up to now that we are talking about the Ministry's website - I am simply saying it about the history - your former colleague, MP Rachel Makri - colleague and Annell, colleague and SYRIZA, both of you judged it worthy for your colleague - submitted an e-mail to the Greek people, where Mr. Kammenos sends Mr. Hatzishavva "Telephone me on 24.40" to Tel Aviv Hotel Carlton, room... and so on." Minister, there are twenty-four hours of the day. The time “24.40” has not yet been invented on planet Earth, unless you are on another planet. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So let's leave the jokes now and let's go, ladies and gentlemen, in fact. Because another colleague of yours, Mr Lappa, who is very sensitive, Mr Panagioulis made a statement yesterday. "This is a matter," said Mr Panagulis, "for a carabinat case". So here we are to see if your colleague, Mr. Panagulis, is right. If, in other words, the Minister of National Defence, Mr. Kammenos, or anyone else, tried to grab them fat, commonly called. So let's go see them in turn. Mr Tasoulus told you three - four times that Mr Kammenos misled the House, the responsible Committee on Equipment. It was not just me who gave him my positive vote on behalf of the New Democracy, that he misled Mr. Philadelphia, who is a member of the committee. Mr. Philie, would you have the same vote on this committee if Mr. Kammenos had informed us of the presence of a Mr. Papadopoulos? For as far as I remember, because lately I have heard very sensitive about Yemen, the only one in the committee that raised directly the issue of Yemen and human rights was Mr Thanasis Pafilis on behalf of the Communist Party of Greece. That's why he voted against. You, Mr Philly, voted well, like all SYRIZA, despite the human rights that you have remembered today. So let's get this straight. The annulment of this agreement, because the money has not come, does not abrogate the attempt, first of all, to deceive the House - and now we will see why this deception has been made - and the possible attempt to smuggle and hatred. And I ask Mr. Kammenos, and I want a clear answer. Since the document itself presented with Mr Papadopoulos is in May 2016 and the gathering and meeting of the Committee on Armaments took place in January 2017, why he did not inform us - at a meeting that we had asked for our cell phones outside, he has done so before and asked for our full confidence - that in this case Saudis have asked to be represented by a Greek Vasilis Papadopoulos. Would it have been our own vote if we had been informed in that committee of the existence of Mr Papadopoulos? So because I voted, I tell you that it would not be my own vote, Minister. So what we are now talking about is if you misled us by mistake or misled us at all to grab them. That's what we're talking about. Of course, and I'll tell you how you've now gone to grab them. They'll prove this along the way. For the Greek people to understand. Don't get confused with dates.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u80	Mr. Georgiadis, at the suggestion of Mr. Vorides, I tell you that your time is up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u81	I shall conclude in thirty seconds, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u82	Then use your seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u83	You signed an agreement with a Mr. Papadopoulos, who talks about three hundred thousand missiles. Three hundred thousand! Value 66 million. However, from the documents released by our embassy and from what we learned from the Brigadier’s report, the Saudis asked for a hundred thousand missiles. So, if Papadopoulos had submitted the letter of guarantee in time, you would have handed over two hundred thousand missiles to Papadopoulos, with the exception that the smuggler Papadopoulos would have taken with the permission of Greece in a war zone of two hundred thousand missiles. You know, ladies and gentlemen, sensitive to human rights in the Left and Progress and peace and ecology and movement, how worth two hundred thousand missiles in the smuggling market? Over 150 million. 150 million was available to Mr Vassilis Papadopoulos. I think it's quite an incentive for Mr. Kammens to mislead this House. The rest in dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u84	You've got a minute and a half for your dentistry. [[Noise]] When we speak and fall, and Mr Vorides, whose remark I have heard, will all be respected. Mr. Kumoucascus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u85	A convicted smuggler as one, two top ministers, 66 million euros, secret services, the Armed Forces, the country's diplomatic service, and most of all, the country's foreign policy and national interests, all involved in a dark bucket and in the middle of the Minister of National Defence. Once again, actions, omissions and behaviours obligate Parliament to deal with a serious, dark case, one which - take care - is the case of justice itself. It's a sad, declining picture of the country. The essence is that to serve and win a mediator smuggler and all who help him, talk and trade with him, what is happening? The Greek Parliament is being deceived. EUR 66 million is lost for the country. The Armed Forces have been deprived of the opportunity to make use of this amount to buy the material they need. More military equipment that could be sold remains in warehouses and the image of the country has collapsed. Why, ladies and gentlemen, what government would it want to deal with Greece now in the defence sector when, unfortunately, a minister who is moving between middlemen and intertwined interests is representing it? All this is the great damage that the country has suffered from this case, and that is the answer. This annuls the misguided argument that since it has not been sold, there is no problem. This is a disgraceful argument, because the questions are relentless. I'm going to focus mainly on what's related to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. First question. Did the Minister for Foreign Affairs know all but the details of the case? Yes, he did. And he knew, because, in accordance with the procedures of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Minister takes, as the first reader, into account all the classified documents of his Ministry. Therefore, the Minister of Foreign Affairs knew. And what did he do? Nothing. Because, as it seems now, he deliberately ignored, deliberately downgraded and indifferent to the information, for the official updates, already in 2016, sent by the Riyadh Embassy, and thus gives Mr. Kammenos a white cheque to proceed with dark manipulations, manipulations now known to all the Pan-Hellenic and, unfortunately, the whole world. And to be clear. The responsibility for safeguarding the confidentiality of information lies solely with you, the Government, the Prime Minister, the Minister of National Defence, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and the relevant departments. You must be doubted, then, about the leaks that have occurred and no one else. You have a responsibility. In fact, it was said a moment ago, the absolutely vicious, unheard of, that confidential documents come to the public through an agent of Turkish secret services, via the MIT. And who says that? Does a reporter, an analyst, a passer? Oh, no. The country's Minister of National Defence himself admits that there is confidential information in the hands of Turkish secret services. And he doesn't give up, he commits himself, and all those responsible for it. And while the government fully incompetently appears in this crucial matter of confidentiality, its ministers have the courage - beware - to rally and punish avengers from the Armed Forces and diplomatic officers, because they dared to do their job properly. Because Mr Klovatos, our Consul at Riyadh, all he has done - and that is why he was punished - was to inform, as he had to, that the authorities of Saudi Arabia do not accept any mediators, they do not know Mr Papadopoulos and they did not want any other agreement, but only a direct agreement between two governments. And you, Mr. Kammenos, rushed this diplomatic official to disapprove him. It goes out - it says - pictures of camels and swords. In Saudi Arabia with what to take a picture of? At a casino? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And don't deny that you intervened in the State Department. Because even the Ministry's walls know - and that is why his leadership is trying to scare and terrorise - what happened. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall also take my dentistry, Madam President. In conclusion, there is no doubt in the conscience of public opinion, of the Greek society, that here we are dealing with a serious case of corruption and that the responsibilities of all kinds are directly or indirectly all yours. And when I say yours, I mean the Minister of National Defence, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, to the extent that he is, of course, the Prime Minister himself. Is it possible she didn't know? That's a question. Obviously, it is not possible because his top two ministers know. If he didn't know, it's even heavier, because two of his top ministers are probably behind his back, i.e. i.e. ignoring him. I am, however, convinced that this is not the case, because his presence here confirms that he was aware of it. And he knew why he also participated in the CYSEA. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, and I am closing down with this, the problem is much more serious, much deeper, much wider. It even goes beyond the concept of the scandal. The country faces serious challenges of defence and security. Look out! Only in 2017, so far, has it been unprecedented for decades of violations of national airspace and its territorial waters: three thousand national airspace infringements, a thousand six hundred territorial waters. While these happen in the security of the country, the political leadership of the Ministry of National Defence is immersed in a state of disrepute. The defence of the country has led a minister whose overall attitude confirms exactly what everyone knows now. In other words, he cannot, he cannot, be aware of the burden of responsibility he assumes nor can he respond to the seriousness of his mission. And that's the big deal, above all. And that concerns the Prime Minister himself. He knows the Minister of National Defence ends up being small for his great role. Still keeps him in place because he keeps them in power. So the Prime Minister has responsibilities. That's the bitter truth. To take care of them not verbally, but by actions. Because the price is great for the country. You don't pay for it. National interests pay for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u86	That's what I said before, about what I've announced about time. Mr. Prison has the floor for five plus three minutes. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, “A man’s authority is shown.” And in your case, the exercise of power was revealing. Minister, since the beginning of your term of office you have served in public relations visiting islands, prisoners and night camps on them, such as near the river Evros and on islands of the Aegean, creating blur waters everywhere. According to the calendar, as soon as you took over from this ministry, you showed political bulia and over-concentration of powers. Your aim was to politicize the Ministry and you had all planned it with all detail and masterpieces. In the last bill you brought to the House, unfortunately, you were not taught by the structure of the Greek Police and made yourself self-regulated to lead the domestic affairs service, the so-called impoverished. You have also despised military justice and the inter-challenge Chief of HNDGS and you want to be both the control and the controlled one at the same time. That's why you did it. Even in the Memorandum of Cooperation with Norway you have legislated any differences between the two sides not to be referred to an international or national court but to be resolved by mutual agreement. You have reached the point where to use even a law of seven years so that you can dive into, as you like, martial material. As was the case with Article 8 of the last draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which added to Article 107 of Law 3978/2011 paragraph 5a, which refers at the end to Article 53 of Law 721/1970. Do you know that, gentlemen? By Law 4407/2016, and by means of a provision in Article 34 of Law 10778/2011 concerning the exploitation of non-operationally necessary military equipment, you have eliminated the divestment of the equipment by means of an inappropriate and mandatory three-year programme and you have legislated to do so at any time through fast track procedures. With the last law, you introduced the term of lifelong trade - listen, listen! (ii) 'an oral bidding agreement' for the sale of martial material, which, after repetitions and evils and a fixed position of the Anti-Population Officer, was finalised in an 'electronic au thority agreement'. A wording that is vulnerable, with possible consequences for the interests of the Greek State. You did not have time to take up duty of Minister of Defence and sold air bombs in the United Arab Emirates at the end of April 2015. They were not three hundred, as you had informed the relevant committee of Parliament, but a thousand and without a transnational agreement and without the approval of the CSCE. Really, were the air bombs not necessary to defend the country? Please submit the relevant correspondence in terms of both the number and the fact that it was not necessary.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u88	Mr. Treasury, will you resign if I bring in the transnational agreement?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u89	Mr. Cammene, don't interrupt. I'll tell you in your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u90	You have ordered the restriction of the freedom of a DHS officer, because he is not in agreement with your own checks.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u91	Don't lie. I resign both from a Member and from a Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u92	Minister, please! I'm trying to keep a process.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u93	Do you not understand that this is how you degrade the army, that you are trespassing the freedom of Greek Army officials? Decentralize in this way, Minister, discipline and hierarchy. Eventually you underestimate them, humiliate them, and throw them north on those who command them. Today, then, when the resilience of society is tested, it comes to the forefront and a war material sale agreement in Saudi Arabia that has many shadows. That's why it's being investigated by the Ice Bay Attorney's Prosecution. Really, where's the military justice? Is he in any trouble? Is it activated? You used a middleman while you know that this is not explicitly allowed by the law. You have baptized him in this way I want a representative from Saudi Arabia to serve your own purposes, which you ought to explain in plenary. A lot of questions are raised from this agreement such as: Why did you choose Saudi Arabia for the sale of war material? Was it the mediator's choice to sell the material in Saudi Arabia? What's the fate of this deal? Did the war material not ultimately not have Saudi Arabia, but another country, and if so what? Why did you bring to committee an agreement that spoke of three hundred thousand missiles while the Saudis, as it turns out, were concerned only for 100 thousand? The rest of the two hundred thousand where they're going? Why didn't you bring the committee the agreement that was to be approved by the CSCE? What did you have to hide? Why did you insist on a mediator who was convicted of criminal offences, felony acts by the Greek courts? What other arms purchases has this individual been involved in during his term of office to date? This is evidenced by the fact of August 9, 2016, that he was in and out of the Ministry of National Defence. And to his honor, you also made a press release. Why did you do it? Who were you texting? What was the reason for his visit? Why did you target the consul at Riyadh? Because he didn't play your game? Is it true that his transfer to London has been cancelled after your intervention? These and other questions are raised, Madam President, in the way the Minister for National Defence handled the Saudi case. I would like to underline with all honesty and capital letters that the worthy members of the Armed Forces of all grades, from the leaders to the last military soldier, who are all in the power, either in the reserve or in the national security, ladies and gentlemen, require respect, recognition and support. So they swore, they were trained, so they were manned, so the Greek people want them, who are their last disguise, the Armed Forces in the difficulties that our country is going through, and our region as well. Trust them, ladies and gentlemen, from whatever post you hold. They will glorify us, as they did for our prenatals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u94	The next two questions have three minutes of prologism and two dentistry. Mr Kedicoglou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u95	I would like to say to you, Madam President, that I will also use my dentistry in the first place. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the government, my very question is how you have achieved an agreement on the sale of surplus military material, which also had the approval of counter-population, and which would bring EUR 66 million, not only to cancel in the matter and to lose the expected revenue, but also to create a major issue of government cohesion to the extent that there is a need for the Prime Minister's original request. Really, where's the Prime Minister? I think he'll show up sometime. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. Mitsotakis didn't make a request to postpone. We are waiting for the question for the Prime Minister as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u96	He'll be here. Calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u97	The answer to my question lies in the spirit and style of your governance, on the cohesive web of your coexistence, in the spirit of transaction for all sacrifices of power. You are well aware, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that the word 'via' has a negative charge on collective subconsciousness, on the part of the public. He's got a dimension of parasitic, since the way he pays is the mist, the percentage. This is why it works at the expense of the buyer or seller, sometimes both, which is why it is forbidden in specific activities by the legislation of Greece, but also by many other countries. Mr. Kammenos did a career in declaring the ruthless persecution of the middlemen. Questions, then, start with why it was necessary to get into a case where the buyer and the seller are in direct contact and have a past of good cooperation. Why did he need the mediator, ladies and gentlemen of the government? The next question - and as a major question arises - is why we had to be the specific middleman and indeed to become a 'national broker', if we were to judge by the range of the countries he had taken over. What's so special about this Mr. Papadopoulos who had to do anything to get the job? You have overlooked his despicable past, you have overlooked the virtuous documents he has produced, you have deceived the House, you have deceived the warnings of diplomats, you have allowed him to enter the camps as chief commander, threatening senior officers, whom you then humiliated. Even a military helicopter made it deliveryry to get him a deal on the plate. The culmination, of course, is that you've come to drive out the buyers too, since your middleman would lose the job. You ruined the job because your guy wouldn't take the sis? Why is Mr. Papadopoulos so necessary? Why did you definitely have to serve him? We're already learning that you were planning co-productions with Mr. Papadopoulos at the NSAs. Are you looking for those kind of investors? The individual questions are many, let us codify some. Why, while intermediaries are explicitly prohibited and only transnational agreements are allowed on the sale of defence material, have you used Mr Papadopoulos? Why, while Saudi Arabia asked for a 'government to goverse' agreement, did you sign with Mr. Papadopoulos's company, while you knew he did not represent Saudi Arabia? Another question: How would the mediator, Mr Papadopoulos, carry out the ammunition of the contract when none of the companies in which he participates do not have the necessary certifications for the carriage of special loads? Why all this rush? Why did you deceive the relevant committee of Parliament? Why did you answer Mr Davaki's question that he visited our country with a delegation from Saudi Arabia? What was the delegation? Who were the representatives of Saudi Arabia who came? The Papadopoulos brothers and a Yankee follow-up defense? Did you open the gates of the camps to them, Minister? Do you realize what you've done? And after you agreed to sign the contract with Mr. Papadopoulos and expose the Armed Forces and the Prime Minister, did you check who Mr. Papadopoulos is? Did you check if he had any problems with the law? Did you know that Saudi Arabia never empowers representatives to its transnational agreements? And if you didn't know that, did you not have any problems with a businessman from a private Greek company with a sales size of more than EUR 2,000 a year - these are elements of 2015, there are no younger figures - to represent Saudi Arabia? Did you check if he was a legal attorney? Did Mr Papadopoulos appear to represent four countries at the same time with unreserved documents and did not trouble you? Did you request that the authenticity of the documents submitted to you be checked? Did you sign a EUR 66 million contract without legal ratifications? And one final question, above all, to the Prime Minister. Did the notorious CSCE raise a question of proficiency? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr Kedicoglou, for the time you were accurate. Now, Mr. Tsiaras is the last question. And you, Mr. Chiara, three and two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u99	But before I begin, Madam President, you will allow me to make this point for those who are following it when it comes to keeping time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u100	Of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u101	Why, ladies and gentlemen, beyond his originality, should we keep the time in this debate on a topical question, there is the originality of having asked the Prime Minister himself to be here in this debate, with the difference that, for his sake, we postponed the debate last Thursday, now is not here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u102	Don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u103	No, I'm not worried at all. I'm not worried. Obviously, they are not interested in the questions that the Members of the New Democracy may ask themselves, but they will certainly be interested in supporting and applauding Mr Kammenos, the Minister of National Defence. I say this because it is for me more than sure that the Prime Minister himself will attempt once again to win your own applause. And you know how? In the known way, throwing the ball in the platform. Instead of discussing the substance - I wish that we would follow what the President-in-Office urged us at first - we might talk about anything else. We know what the issues of topical and urgent debate are, perhaps with a line, getting your own applause and dislocating the debate. I say this, because a few days earlier I had the opportunity to ask the Minister of National Defence to live this practice once again with the words 'pay', 'pay', where we finally managed to convince or show that what we said in this House was not what most people thought or what they heard - especially you - but it was something different. In any case, it is obviously all about the fact that the government can swallow anything, just as long as we keep what we have today. And I say this, because in the past few days, the debate has been attempted to shift from the issue to the issue at issue, which is an transnational war material sale agreement to another country, to an issue that has arisen from this so-called classified search. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we all know what it is, how it is to be handled, and what it may have to do with it. But are there secret points in a transnational agreement? I address to you, the honourable Members of the main - essentially - the government group of SYRIZA, the transnational agreements have classified points? Do they have points that they cannot see - I will not tell you anyone - the Members of the Committee on Equipment? Where did you see that written? Is that really what you've been claiming all the previous years, where you've been in the Opposition? Is that what you thought? I say this because shifting one's position so easily does not, obviously, constitute a serious one - if you want - responsibility for what one takes even more - gives Greek citizens the feeling that he is serving them with the word and the measure of dignity he had invested in before he was in this position. Ladies and gentlemen, the big question is whether Mr Papadopoulos, in the end, was a mediator or was a legal representative, a proxy for the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Well, don't you know - many of you SYRIZA's colleagues are familiar with history - that Saudi Arabia is a deep Islamic state? Don't you know there's no Constitution? Do you not know that it is Sharia that, as a basic rule and as a basic principle, determines any procedure of that state? Do you know that on the basis of Sharia, can the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia not represent it by any other religion or by any other nation? That is precisely what is happening to us and where the substance of the debate lies. The official delegation of Saudi Arabia came at the end of August in Greece and while there was a vivid, obvious interest in buying hundreds of bullets, this debate did not go any further, because the honourable Minister wanted the whole debate to rotate around Mr Papadopoulos - Mr Papadopoulos to take the shots and he might be selling them. Apparently, that's where the whole case was. But let's put things in a row. Do you know that the moment this debate was interrupted, the Greek state was actually damaged, since these hundred thousand missiles were not even sold? And of course the Minister can come today and say that this agreement has never been implemented in the end. But you know, there's an intent. There is what one is trying to do. And whether or not it is legal or moral is proven through the steps taken and to a very large extent at the moment they are before the National Representation. Finally, I am going to ask a very critical question, which I think is the essence of the matter. The day the honourable Minister asked for the booking and arrest of the Brigadier had not been asked for information from anyone before. And that's a little - it's very well known. In other words, it was not informed by any military officials whether there was a development in talks with the official Saudi Delegation. The next morning, as evidence says, he asked for the detention and arrest of Mr. Brigadier. Really, who was the Minister informed of this development? I think the answer is very easy and obviously answers Mr Kammenos's allegations that Mr Papadopoulos did not know him, he had never seen him and had absolutely nothing to do with him. Ladies and gentlemen, in a case where there are so serious indications of dark paths, questions need to be answered. I think it is a duty, basically, not because, in any case, you have had a record that you have claimed throughout the past period, about transparency, about the absence of intermediaries, about the fight against corruption, but above all, because you have a serious obligation on each of you to serve your role in the Greek Parliament, against democracy itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u104	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u105	What for?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u106	On a personal point.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u107	Where's the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u108	Mr Georgiadis, speaking, referred to me and what he said is false and I want to clarify it in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u109	You have the floor for a minute. But don't start this personal contraction.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u110	But there was a report. Madam President, I have put forward the view that the debate on equipment in Saudi Arabia must obey the European Parliament's resolutions. The last one's in June. This week, we also had a new debate in the European Parliament, where the European Parliament decides that we are in a humanitarian crisis and that Saudi Arabia's involvement is immediate and at the expense of civilians. Murdering civilians. I believe that it is worthy, unfortunately, of a debate limiting this great, unprecedented humanitarian crisis with thousands of dead children in Yemen in a micropolitical debate. I would like to clarify to the House that I was not a member of the Arms Committee on 12 January 2017. After two months I went to this committee. If I were, I might have voted - I'm honest - following the government's suggestion. Now, however, we know. There are decisions by the European Parliament, not just reports in the newspapers, calling for control of Saudi armaments for the crimes it commits in Yemen. So don't close our eyes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u111	Thank you. That concludes the list of questions. Now I'm going to give the Minister the floor. Because a climate has been created here, but also directly, that I do not have the impartiality that the procedure needs, I would like to say to the Minister that his time is twenty-minute protology, ten-minute dentology, five-minute tritology. With this as a whole, you are about seven Members who have asked. That is why I would ask you to tell me whether you will use all your time or the time of prototype and you will observe it like the others. The only exception that is being made is for the Heads of State or Government, where the Conference of Presidents decided to speak with the well-known comfort we give each time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u112	Madam President, I will use the time of my prototype. But don't forget I'm a party leader, so...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u113	Mr. Kammenos, you have appointed Mr. Papachristopoulos as a representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u114	If you need to give me a little tolerance, I will not use Mr. Papachristopoulos' time. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been incredible things in this House and incredible things have been written from the seven newspapers, the two radios in the last few days. But fairy tale ends here, gentlemen of the New Democracy, a fairy tale of lies, smashing, muddling that reaches the limits of national meditation. For one month, you have been personally indulged, as have the alleged journalists, by the gang of suspected drug trafficking and weapon mediators, because they will lose their bread. It is the proof of the strategic deadlock of New Democracy that political immigrants and failed political leaders took positions in the leadership of the New Democracy and the difference between the speakers today appeared. Some of them - Nazi and vest books sellers - will only deal with them in justice because they open their mouths and say things that are incredible. You are presenting an all-legal agreement on the transnational sale of ammunition as corruption. It is a transnational agreement and there is no mediator. The money that they would leave or leave Saudi Arabia on the account of the Ministry of Finance would go to the Ministry of Finance of Greece. No intermediate, no mediator exists. Obviously, you are accustomed to the corrupt policies that you have conducted. This is the case with arms sales - for it is a sale and not a arms market - I have never seen corruption in a sale - which is perfectly legitimate and clean. You didn't ask for clarifications from the Ministry. Whatever questions you asked, you got answers. Why didn't you ask for the convening of the House Equipment Committee, which I would ask you to do? So why did you want to build exactly this scandal, which came after London, which came after the drug dealer, who will see what the case has been and where this case has arrived. And you turned New Democracy into a political arm behind Mrs Bakoyannis's best man. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very simple case. There was a five-fold offer from the price of buying devalued ammunition, which we would pay in a few years to destroy, and we accepted it. As Minister, I chose to bring 66 million to the public funds and strengthen the budget of the Ministry of National Defence and the staff. And I didn't get into formals. We changed the law. We brought him a new law, brought him to the parliament, brought him back to the KYSEA, brought him back to the House, brought him back to the KYSEA, and there are no secret documents here at the Ministry of National Defence. In all the classified documents I've given you access. Some people don't want the ministers to decide. All the complaint was based on a statement by Mr. Loverdos on the alleged reference of a Brigadier. There's no report for Brigadier. There's no report of a Brigadier. Mr. Brigadier General, this one, was called in an apology by the Chief of the Army. What's he answering? I read two paragraphs and I will make it available to the Bureau to read it, because it is a personal document - it is not classified - and you can understand what it says. What Brigadier General Papadakis says: "As regards the origin and use of the above draft memorandum, which I repeat did not relate to a non-service report from 4 September 2017 by a Member of Parliament on 7 November 2017, I completely ignore any fact relating to the above. On the basis of the foregoing, it is fully established that I have never submitted a written report on non-service staff - staff, administrative - from 4 September to any administrative body or authority.'
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u115	Did the incident happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u116	There's no report. There's a intercept from his computer set of messages that Mr. Lover made. The newspapers made it front page and we have been discussing for a month a report he says he didn't testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u117	Did the incident happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u118	As far as the incident is concerned, the incident had to do with someone trying to ruin this deal...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u119	Who?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u120	...and just had the floor of the involvement of military justice. In my office, the prosecutor of military justice came to check exactly if some people are moving cards to become a card fight.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u121	Why did you transfer Mr. Papadakis from his place?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u122	Please, Mr. Davaki, stop.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u123	So the prosecutor of military justice was called to see if some were moving in secret. And let me tell you, and where did the SAD end up by the Chief of HNDGS? That this privilege left this address, because that's where no one changed and some people did business. I am going on: You have tabled for some time about various things that are not about the question. As far as the question is concerned, Madam President, I have to answer twelve questions. If I can in a quarter, I will.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u124	You have thirty-five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u125	So the questions referred are all contained in the first question in the e-mail from the Consul, Mr Klovatos, which has arrived at night, on the eve of the signing of the contract, and which I shall be tabling. Not communicated to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It's a private Telex. The relevant Director of the Directorate-General for the Environment, Admiral Kyriakidis, communicates by telephone and points out: ‘Lords, if you want to change the authorised representative, who is Mr Papadopoulos, you should take written leave of authorisation. And he sends the same to the Saudi authorities. Consul and Ambassador insist that Papadopoulos is not a representative. And what's the Department of National Defence doing? It asks the military follower responsible for Saudi Arabia to take the documents, which are validated by the consular office and I will submit them to the House and to ask whether these documents are genuine or not, whether there is authorisation or not. And the official answer is given by the general director of the military followers that all documents are authentic and that the representation of Papadopoulos applies. Therefore, in order to make any change and to bring the programme back to the House with another number of defects, with another representative, we should go through a CSCE again, to come back to the House, because it will be another transnational agreement. So as far as I am concerned, I will submit to you Mr Kouvatos' personal e-mail, which is not communicated to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I continue and will present to you the document by which Mr Papadopoulos on behalf of Saudi Arabia is designated as a representative. I'll give you the transmission of the authenticity check on the letter made by the military follower. I will present to you the document certified by the Greek embassy of the military follower, which says it is a genuine document. I will present the Arabic copy to you, as well as the Saudi Arabian document to the military following that the situation remains as it stands.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u126	Is all this validated?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u127	It's validated, Mr. Tragakis, from the consulate of Greece to Riyadh.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u128	We'll see!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u129	And because we will see it, I notify you of a final user certificate of June 2016 regarding the bombs and the request of Papadopoulos, which bears both the consular seal and the papers of the consular authority, to see whether or not our particular embassy in Riyadh knew whether there was or not Papadopoulos!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u130	Is the representative of Papadopoulos, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u131	Of course it's true!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u132	Mr. Davakis, we finally heard you! Stop!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u133	In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I will present to you the passports that came from the Ministry of Saudi Arabia for the control of ammunition that were not there. Finally, I will also present to you the end-user certificate, which concerns the 100 000 missiles, which also bears the signature and stamp of the consular office in Riyadh. So all that has already been said is fairy tales! It is authorised in May 2016 by the ‘OLYMPIC INDUSTRIES’ as a representative with signature of the Arms Manager. In June 2016, there is a signature by General Abdullah Al Asheri, the procurement leader, who attests to the end user. It's the most serious document there is. On 27 October there is a confirmation letter - letter of agreement - authenticity of this authorisation, because we were indeed noisy. And he went and asked - so says the military follower - signature of Maj-Gen Halin Bin Abdulaziz Al Saif, leader and leader of the military followers. On 27 October 2016, a photocopy of officials' passports for ammunition inspection from Saudi Arabia was transmitted. Did the monkey send us these too? And finally, in November 2016, there is a end-user certificate from General Yaya Abdullah Al Asseria that certifies the three hundred thousand missiles. Where is the difference of three hundred thousand missiles with the hundred thousand missiles? The only deal there was the three hundred thousand missiles. Changing number of ammunition to deal can't be! What you're saying, that we'd get an agreement of three hundred thousand, we'd pay the hundred and the others would go to the desert, they're not in democracies. There are no such procedures. Do you know when they were? They were going to other times fleeing ammunition from industries and turning narcotics. I would remind you of the ship 'ALEXANDROS'. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, as far as Mr Papadopoulos is concerned, I have a very big surprise to show you exactly who Papadopoulos was: We only knew about Papadopoulos was that Papadopoulos represented Saudi Arabia. He represented Saudi Arabia and was multi-checked on both its criminal record and the planned permits he should have had. I shall therefore submit to the House the National Industrial Safety Regulations. I will present to Parliament the power of Papadopoulos and his company to handle classified material that passes through all the services with their names. I will submit to Parliament the authorisation of personnel accepted by the Directorate-General for Equipment, the certificate of industrial insurance for the installations from the Region. I will tell you in Parliament about the change in the name of the company that took place at some point, so that there is no misunderstanding. I'm going to present to the House the license for the gun of Papadopoulos. I will present to Parliament the white criminal record of Papadopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u134	What does that have to do with anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u135	But this is about Saudi Arabia. And because you ask me if I know Papadopoulos, I will tell you "yes, I know him". But you know where? From Mr. Mitsotakis. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So Mr. Mitsotakis is not here today. He's missing from the conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u136	Here it is, don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u137	Who is Mr. Papadopoulos? A moment ago, at my request, I received from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs what was given us as information: Mr. Konstantinos Mitsotakis, the late Prime Minister, in 1988, had decided that the National Bank would provide a loan to Russia to repay the Greek exporters who had stopped paying from the Soviet Union. And in 1991 he went to Russia with forty businessmen along with the Governor of the Bank then, Mr. Germidis. And within the mission - if Mrs Bakoyannis remembers - he was Mr. Ilias Papadopoulos with his son, who received 67 million from the National Bank and the Greek people, to pay the Papadopoulos you don't know! Papadopoulos' lawyer didn't...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u138	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u139	Papadopoulos' lawyer is not a member of the New Democracy!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u140	What does that have to do with anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u141	Who's the lawyer?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u142	To raise his hand, Papadopoulos' lawyer, to see who has anything to do with Papadopoulos and who took action on Papadopoulos. I will submit copies of the 1991 mission of Constantine Mitsotakis, publications of "Afghanistan", "Free Press", "Catherine" for the present of 67 million. [[Noise in the Chamber]] We, that is, we went to collect from Saudi Arabia with the signature of Papadopoulos of EUR 66 million for the fund, and then you paid EUR 67 million from the National Bank for Papadopoulos to get it back, which you did not know! And you blamed us for dealing with the middleman! But because they are laughing at PASOK and Mr. Loverdos has now taken the cut with Papadopoulos on all front pages and on all television channels, I tell you this: Do you know, Mr. Loverdos, where they met Mr. Papadopoulos at the Ministry? Mrs. Gennimata took him on February 17, 2014.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u143	Please wait and listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u144	IGG...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u145	Is it a matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u146	Mr. Tasouula, you're asking me about the relationship with Papadopoulos. I'm telling your relationships with Papadopoulos!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u147	Ask a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u148	The Minister did not ask a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u149	On February 17, IG INTERNATIONAL, based in Abu Dhabi, sends a request for the supply of various types of ammunition mainly of a small calibre from the Hellenic Defence Systems.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u150	Will you calm down? Or I'll interrupt. I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u151	On 28 February the NCAs submitted an initial offer to IGG. IGG Delegation visits the NSAs in order to discuss and negotiate the offer. The requested quantities were considered to be of the utmost importance for the company and followed a series of visits to examine technical issues, construction and production capacities during this period. In June 2014 in Paris, the CEO of NSAs Mr. Christoyannis, the presence of Deputy Minister of National Defence Mr. Fofis Gennimatas and the president of the company Mr. Demir, signed a joint statement with IGG on the supply of ammunition of estimated value of EUR 75 million. In an effort to find a solution to the possibility of producing the very large number of ammunition that IGG wanted and in the time frames requested by IGG, the CEO of NSAs Mr.Christiannis, on November 3, following the political leadership's permission, approves the day-to-day transition of NSA officials to the premises of Vassilis Papadopoulos in Apoupoli Kilkis. On 7 November the Negotiation Committee shall visit the premises of OLYMPIC INDUSTRIES SA and on 14 November shall submit the relevant report. Even the tickets will be submitted to you and all the correspondence to see who Papadopoulos was talking to at the Ministry of National Defence. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] This is to end and not to be shadowed, ladies and gentlemen. Listen, I don't care who represents Saudi Arabia or other allies in the Middle East. I'm interested in it being an transnational agreement, leaving the money on the state's account and going to the state, not being able to grab it. From there on, whoever has a representative on the other side is not something I can examine. What is provided for in the law is considered and I am exhausting it, ladies and gentlemen. It will soon prove who wanted to ruin the job and why they wanted to ruin the work for the Greek public. I understand what Mr Friend says and, if there is a political agreement not to sell to Saudi Arabia, not to sell. I do not endorse Mr Chiara's view that all the countries of the Middle East are Islamic, Sharia. Only terrorists didn't tell them. The position of the New Democracy towards Saudi Arabia is well known by Mr. Chiara.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u152	You probably didn't understand!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u153	Calm down! Listen to the rival. Learn that, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u154	We won't falsify reality, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u155	Ladies and gentlemen, I will table the draft transnational agreement on the sale of pleasant and non-operational materials, as well as the report by the negotiating committee and the sums that have been given then to reach that price which the Saudis themselves admit is very high. It's the honor that took off the General Military Staff. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Madam President, I shall use some of my dentistry. Finally, I was attacked unwisely, ladies and gentlemen, by the Vice-President of the New Democracy. I would not say it, but I would say it to understand who are behind the attack and how these mobsters work whether they are politicians or journalists or arms dealers. About a month ago I received an anonymous call threatening me and my family. I called the Extortion Department, and I accepted the waiver of confidentiality on my cell phone to locate who was the one making the threatening call. Today he was invited by the Extortion Department. I'm filing the opening of my phone account. I'll tell you what the rule is. The rule, ladies and gentlemen, is the arms dealer photographed in selfie with the Vice-President of New Democracy. It's Mr. Paterakis who called his company's phone. Today, he's being examined by the Anti-terrorism. Because some people may not remember who Mr Paterakis is, I'll tell you. He's the one who set up the whole Jaffa story. He is the one who “Kathemerin” on November 16, 2008 named him as a mediator for the old submarines. He's the one who sent the letter to Mr. Achontien, so that the Jaffa submarine case could proceed. He is the one who is part of the gang that you serve as a politician against us here today and you think we will be afraid of your boss's brass, threats from here, from the Step of the House or your paradise money! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] We have nothing to fear. The more you beat the government, know that the harder the cohesion of this government will be. Don't look for weak linkes. We don't even have Chohatzopoulou here...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u156	You have his right hand.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u157	I don't know if you were his right leg once, if you remember, Mr. Kedicoglou. His right leg was there, Mr. Kedicoglou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u158	What do I have to do with it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u159	Together you were, Mr. Kedicoglou, a young child with Mr. Tsohatzopoulos and Mr. Papantoniou's son is one of the new members of the New Democracy. Rejoice them! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] We don't have any shadows. He said something about the Chief. I respect him as a former police chief, Mr. Prussakis. I'll give you a look at the Emirates Convention, Mr. Treasury. Do you want to see it here in the office and bring it back? We sell transnational contracts. They used to sell without transnational contracts. If you have time to read the book of Evangelos Papastamatiou, Vice - Admiral flying, former Chief of Tactical Air Force, who once describes when he was called in 1980 to transfer to the Riyadh armament he should not know about either he or his crew. And who was paid in cash sometime? To the government then. Passing!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u160	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-six students and students and three teachers from the 10th General High School of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Today, we have a parliamentary control procedure, which is called a question. They have already spoken seven New Democracy MPs on the question asked by the Minister of Defence in question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u161	Madam President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u162	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u163	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u164	Mr Vorides, Mr Loverdos and Mr Georgiadis have been asked for the floor. The first is Mr. Vorides. On what subject do you want to take the floor, Mr Voridis?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u165	Normally, as a parliamentary representative after the Minister, that is to say, as planned.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u166	Wait, then. Have a seat. Mr. Loverdus what does he want?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u167	Madam President, because the Minister in his speech made two - three references to my name, I would like to make two clarifications on a personal matter, and it will only take one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u168	Personally describe what you were doing. What's your personal problem?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u169	My problem, my staff starts from the moment he makes a reference to the report by Brigadier General Papadakis, which I did, in the House, made public. I would like to make a clarification which will be very useful to him but also so that you, Madam President, do not as President-in-Office, but also my colleagues, in actions that are not in line with parliamentary morals, are not in accordance with my own name. The second is that he made a barbaric report to the president of PASOK and Democratic Association...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u170	The President will speak. I imagine she'll defend herself.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u171	He'll talk when he gets the floor. I would therefore like to speak on personal grounds for two minutes and there is a lot to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u172	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u173	Just a minute, Madam President. Minister, there are questions from this case that will be answered today and in the next few days. Parliament's procedures will be constantly open whether they are auditing or legislative. Everyone, when asked, may answer, may not answer. In fact, he may respond supposedly, but he may avoid. From what a Brigadier you deceived, you chose to say not what he said, but if this document was filed and where. I'm telling you about something you know better than me. Everything he has said, but everything, has been filed at the court of Athens, where you know that the procedure has been opened and I call on you - since you are demanding the truth - as long as the meeting lasts for Parliament to ask for what the parties' representatives in room 162 to see it. It will look like you, Minister, if you're right or if you're here to fool us. As far as I am concerned, I have a word, the most responsible way of addressing you: in the House and in documents and without blaming you, I ask you to tell the truth. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But you do not say it, Minister, and you stand in formality. Every formality is withdrawn and it turns out to be you who are telling the truth or all of you who are making political criticism and blame you. We have on this issue - what has happened and what you have done to an honest man who is offended - a document which is in the court's interrogator. To come to the House today.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u174	Okay. The staff we didn't understand, but it doesn't matter. Do you want to answer now, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u175	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u176	You have a minute, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u177	First of all, Mr. Brigadier is not persecuted. He is currently serving as head of the services of the ANS, a sensitive service. Secondly, do you consider, Mr Loverdo, that the Minister is under his command, Mr Loverdo? I called the judge of the court, as well as internal affairs, to examine the case. Alas, if the Minister calls the military court to ask what one witness or the other testified. You did this when you were Justice Ministers who took the judges and pressed them, or you were kicking them out. Military justice is independent, is free and no Minister will ever get - at least as long as I am a minister - no one asks the course of an investigation. If that were what happened...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u178	I said more!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u179	Listen, Mr. Loverdo. When military justice is over, she will bring her findings. This conclusion will be seen wherever you want. I, you know, want to tell you something. From you, I wasn't expecting this assumption that you're taking it so ergonomically. Whenever you asked to see the Ministry's document, I gave you access and I informed you myself and you recognized it. Now it looks like something's changed. What's changed? Tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u180	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u181	Okay, we're not doing this job, Mr. Loverdo. Oh, no. Do you have any answer that the court doesn't fall under the Minister? Will you answer that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u182	No, Madam President. It distorts what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u183	What do you want? Tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u184	I've got 30 seconds. Minister, if you can't hear me, how will you answer me? The House will ask, not you. The House, as it has repeatedly done, is entitled to ask for justice, from the Areo Ice, from the court of court, from everywhere that it considers necessary. Whether you're afraid or avoiding. If anything changed and you talk to me about contractors...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u185	There are procedures in justice. Who's telling you this, Mr. Loverdo? You're a constitutionalist.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u186	...is that you abused a trust...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u187	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u188	..three years of defence, to do what you've done. You've changed, not me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u189	All right, Mr. Loverdo. Have a seat.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u190	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u191	Yeah, but now we can't do that. We will not dismantle the meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u192	Mr. Loverdo, listen to something.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u193	Your signature...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u194	Mr. Davakis, you have exceeded every limit. I've targeted you. Wait and it'll be completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u195	When an interrogation is conducted in the courthouse, it is covered by protection of interrogation. Only Mr. Georgiadis' friend, Pattacos, could ask the trooper to open his case and see it. Now it's not like that anymore.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u196	We have a transfer period...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u197	Now he's asked why...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u198	The Minister can do whatever he wants?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u199	Mr. Davakis, finally! What kind of fantasy is that? Come out and talk to you two! Now look at your behavior!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u200	To answer now why he's reassigned him!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u201	No, he won't. What are you going to say? Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u202	Answer the microphone why you transferred it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u203	We're not going to break this up here! I'll get you out, Mr. Davaki. You're really harassing the whole meeting. Mercy! Everyone's flying and saying what they want!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u204	Madam President, will you give me the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u205	Wait, Mr. Georgiadis. Let's make it clear, because Mr. Voridis is asking for the floor. How much time I'll give you depends on whether the Chief of Staff will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u206	Oh, no. If I precede, it's not up to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u207	No, Mr. Voridis. That's not true. Bring the article.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u208	Read the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u209	I'll read it to you because you're showing a terrible confidence and confidence. And learn the Rules of Procedure. Article 135, which applies to this procedure, expressly states that the procedures laid down in Article 97 exist mutatis mutandis. So not paragraph 7, but paragraph 8, where he says that the Minister can only once request that the debate be deferred, etc., if the question is considered also by a Member of Parliament... No, I'm sorry, that's not it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u210	Madam President, we are the questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u211	We know, Mr. Chiara. Now we're gonna find out? So it says here that if the President of the parliamentary group has spoken before us...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u212	"If it has been prioritised," he says.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u213	Wait! I know legally and I know what I'm reading.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u214	Madam President, we are the questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u215	Let go, Mr. Chiara. I'm talking now. Sit down. So it says that if there's been a speech before... [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] Wait! Mercy! What's that thing? What kind of panic is that? If the President of the Parliamentary Group has been speaking before and succeeded by his alternate, the alternate shall be entitled to give a reply for six minutes and three minutes. This paragraph, which is paragraph 7, shall not apply under Article 135. So you have six minutes to either speak before or talk after. Article 135 expressly excludes paragraph.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u216	So, Madam President, I have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u217	Yes, sir. You want the floor now? I mention it, because you say it's some kind of institution that I ignore.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u218	Madam President, if I may, we are the questions. We have reached agreement with the President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u219	Will you now speak, Mr. Voridis?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u220	After we are done with the personal details, Madam President, I shall speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u221	Who else wants on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u222	I, Madam President, want to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u223	Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u224	First of all, Minister, with George Georgalas, the director of your office, you've got to be kidding about Pattaco. But I'm leaving that. I shall refer to the only thing I care about. Madam President, for once in Parliament Mr Kammenos has referred to an almost unknown citizen for a police story of complaints that he has made...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u225	You were dating Merkel on twitter. With Merkel, you were online.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u226	Mr. Kammenos, let me finish. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u227	Are you such an asshole?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u228	Madam President, I would ask you to protect me very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u229	Mr. Cammane!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u230	Madam President!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u231	I told him, Mr. Georgiadis. What am I supposed to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u232	Did you hear him? That's who you stand for. He's the one here. To keep the chair!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u233	Keep going, Mr. Georgiadis, even though you said you wouldn't answer whatever the Minister says.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u234	Now listen to me. The police story to which Mr. Kammenos referred is completely unknown to me. Because I have heard in the Chamber these years many police stories of Mr. Kammenos and they have all ended up in the gallery of the useless, I suspect that this will be another one. So, for your information, Mr. Kammene, the gentleman you mentioned, Mr. Paterakis, and you mentioned him about as the gang leader, that is what you said - I have seen him once in my life socially. It was accompanied by an active Minister of your Government, who is not here now, but if he goes into the Chamber I will say so, because I do not want to criminalize social relations, and indeed the Minister of your Government, who is involved with the shipyards, which you mentioned earlier. If Mr Patterakis, as you said, is head of a coil - I imagine you will be in court for what you have said about Mr Paterakis - it is another reason for your Government to check and for that reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u235	Marinakis...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u236	And don't laugh, Mr. Kammene, because for Mr. Marinakis who keeps saying it like that, you on the video went to the "Island" party, not me, to the famous video. Then you realized you didn't like it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u237	I was going there?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u238	You were going with your wife to see Mr. Kourtakis at his election office and your wife went to Mr. Marinakis' office then.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u239	You have three sues for that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u240	So, Mr. Cammene, the laughs aren't to me. As far as the 'nazi' books are concerned, I would remind you that they have already been convicted once by the court. There'll be a second. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u241	You're going to need a full-fledged vest!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u242	Minister, please. Finish, Mr. Georgiadis. It's been three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u243	So I'm reappearing this. The gentleman you mentioned, with whom I have nothing personal, and I make it clear, is a friend of your Minister. If he's the leader of a coil, your minister will be checked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u244	We're coming back.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u245	The gold plates...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u246	Now you will not answer for the absent, Minister. Come on, Mr. Voridis. Will you take the time of dentistry, too?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u247	I'll call her if I have to, Madam President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u248	Okay. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u249	Ladies and gentlemen, the attempt to deceive this House continues by Mr Kammenos in this House today - not enough - because, firstly, what Mr Kammens allegedly denounced was finally agreed here. There is no way, he says, the document, because it has not been filed, but the incident, which is the major, has been concluded, not whether the document has been filed or not, but whether it has tried to arrest the Brigadier or not. That was agreed. Mr. Kammenos made another nice one. He remembered something since 1990, in 1991, some relationships, some work, and compared 67 million drachmas with 66 million euros. Nice! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But there is no stopping of attempting to deceive because he has submitted documents now to the House to say what? That the proxy, you know, I'll refer to-- it's authentic. What does it mean to be authentic? That's a genuine signature document. Is that the major in this document? Does the man who wrote it commit Saudi Arabia? Listen to what he says, 'cause that's interesting. What? What if a signature has been signed? Well, that might have gotten in. And he responds here to the ACA: I would like to inform you that this letter is authentic and is addressed by the Air Force - and not by Saudi Arabia - to the Greek state.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u250	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u251	Come here, gamble, colleague, for flying fast. You're not scared. You're not afraid before you talk. The Air Force, I say, here, is the major commander of our firearm binding the Greek state? Really? Since when is this happening? What papers? Who has the legal authority to represent? Let's go now, because I don't have any questions anymore, ladies and gentlemen. My colleagues were noble and had questions, asked questions. I don't have any questions. I have all been answered by the present procedure. Did Kammeno lie to the committee? Yes, sir. What did he say? That it's a transnational deal. Has he informed that Saudi Arabia's proxy will be a Greek public limited company from Kilkis City? Did he tell the committee? Oh, no. Why didn't he say so? It'll all be answered. Transnational deal, he says. What's this Greek company? It may somehow be that Saudi Arabia has decided that it will be represented by Greek public limited companies. This Greek public limited company, this company, is also proxy - ladies and gentlemen, look at a coincidence - both Jordan and Qatar. What does the law say? Have you read what the law says? ‘It is forbidden to economic operators’ - see Saudi Arabia - ‘participating in procurement procedures’ - the conclusion procedure includes the entire negotiation process, it is not a conclusion process, it is ‘and the execution of procurement contracts, services or works in the defence sector, to have and use any intermediate, intermediary or agent in the procurement and performance process’. So I ask the Minister, who came here "many heavy and not": When a company appears as a proxy and Saudi Arabia and Qatar and Jordan, does he strike a bell that he is not a proxy and does this job professionally? Or do they do it for their mother's soul? Because the point of this provision is that supplies should not come out, Mr Minister, because if supplies come out - we have heard the other one - it says 'it's a sale'. There's no corruption in the sale, is there? God save! That is, no money coming out of the sale. No one's coming out, is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u252	He knows...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u253	Leave the smart ones, because now you're defending with the smart ones, to be informed, the one who set up the job. That's who you're defending with the smart guys. Now let's go further. He says, "Oh, but me? What do I have to do with all this? They brought me a proxy. Oh, they brought me a proxy." Who brought it for you? Is that a validated proxy that they brought you? Oh, no. Retrospectively, someone comes along and says, this ACAM, ours, is supposed to be genuine. Yes, is it genuine in what sense? The one I told you before. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] I will also take the time of dentistry, Madam President. But we also have our ambassador, who says: "Excuse Saudi Arabia, Mr. Vassilis, the friend of Panos, does not know him."
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u254	Where does he say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u255	Let's go to "Where does it say it?"
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u256	Where does Saudi Arabia say that? Read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u257	I read.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u258	You've done away with me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u259	So I read. You'll allow me, why do I see a livelihood? In an e-mail: "Saudarabs military declared complete ignorance of Mr. Papadopoulos' activity and expressed...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u260	Please. Please very much. I'm going to have to interrupt. I'm going to have to interrupt! There is no debate like this. Please. Please. Come on, Mr. Voridis, keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u261	Hold on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u262	I got it, I got it! You're right. You accept that the state is bound by the signature of the Colonel - you accept that and that produces legal consequences - you do not accept our ambassador. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] For this state, the gentleman here does not exist. There's our ambassador. That's Greece there. Our ambassador says to you: 'They know nothing.' We're tiles here about it. Nice! That's disgusting. The other one with the signature, that's not what we care about, that's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u263	Who's signing for the F-16 in America? The Colonel...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u264	Now, be careful, listen to something. Two minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u265	Minister, Mr. Vitsa, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u266	If you stand on it, his God and his soul. I'll be done in two minutes. I'll come to the other one. When do these come up? Now listen to shocking things. So there is a document leaving the Military Directorate here saying: 'Tell me' - here's what the embassy asks - 'whoever is appointed to sign'. On June 12th, this. Our people are asking who's responsible for the signature. Answer's not on, look out. On June 13th, the planes leave to load our people to go sign with Papadopoulos. To whom is it left, ladies and gentlemen, in good faith and the slightest doubt that here with fanaticism, with devotion, the Minister insists that the contract be drawn up with Papadopoulos rather than directly? Who doubts that contractors have undertaken to get him to work? Who is doubted, then, that they are also fighting for the transport of the ammunition? And the Minister says, "Don't you dare give someone else the transport from Papadopoulos", who is both proxy and subcontractor and responsible for the transport. Of all this, you didn't see anything, did you? You don't understand anything, do you? Is there no matter? The criminal characterisation will be attributed. You should, if you were sensitive, pay him back. Apparently you're not, as far as I understand. You do badly, because you are charged with severely epilepsy behaviors that directly violate the law on contracts. Bottom line!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u267	Mr. Voridis, come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u268	Watch out. It is obvious that Mr. Kammenos who likes to smile and say smart and evocative will be found in audiences who do not tolerate such conduct. The next House will be here, and it will obviously decide.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u269	I will now give the President of the New Democracy and Chief of Staff Responsibility. Come on, Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u270	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I must say that I am delighted that, on the occasion of our question, I see half the Ministerial Council in the Chamber, regardless of whether some people would find it useful to leave during the debate. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] I am very pleased that Mr Tsipras has chosen to be present in today's debate. I imagine that during my speech, he will come to the Chamber. Lately for some reason he knows, he's probably avoiding me. He'll definitely be here. I'm sure of that. I don't doubt it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u271	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u272	Oh, you're here. Welcome to him and he's late.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u273	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u274	I've been worried for now. I do not know if you did this with your will - I was referring to your participation in this debate today, Mr Tsipras, and I say it to catch the thread of what I said - or if you did so because your government partner blackmailed you. But only Mr Tsipras' choice to be here today confirms - and I imagine you will agree with that - the seriousness of this dark case that we are discussing today. Mr. Tsipras is here because he has to defend himself first. It is also the same who, as President of the CSCE, signed the scandalous convention on the sale of missiles in Saudi Arabia, apparently. But Mr Tsipras is here for one more reason: he must defend his government partner. He must defend Mr. Kammenos. I would remind you of things that are known to everyone. Tsipras has chosen Mr. Kammenos twice to co-operate together. He did it for the first time in January 2015 and you did it in September 2015, even though then you could make other choices. But I'm going to stand by the reasons Mr. Tsipras made this choice. You have chosen Mr Kammenos, because you simply - now that I see you and confirm it together - are matching. Your joint course, after all, seems...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u275	Please. Don't comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u276	Why, is it bad for them to fit in?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u277	Indeed, it's not bad. Mr. Mitsotakis is right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u278	It's not bad for them to fit in. Why are you bothering me? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] After all, we have seen what is the adhesive that brought you to the ground: torture, lies, populism, arrogance - especially for Mr Kammenos - and a lack of measure and any moral barrier, a torque to vulnerability, a systematic deception of citizens. In simple terms, one’s spirit matched each other’s style and ended up with one another’s hostage. As you came together, you know that you will leave together, because without Kammenos, Mr. Tsipras knows that there is no governmental majority. He's going down, he's going to elections, and in our appreciation he's going to be crushed. Without Tsipras again, Mr. Kammenos is politically unprotected. So their destiny is common. So don't flatter yourself pointlessly and publicly, Mr. Tsipras, yourself. You're not tied to the mast, as modern Ulysses, so you don't get used to the sirens. You're tied up with Mr. Kammenos. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The only sirens that are fascinating you - you can't even hide it anymore - are the joys of power. All citizens now understand it. I cannot make a reference - since I have you here, Mr Tsipras, today - to the sad video you presented last Friday to show you how socially sensitive you are. Next time you're making such a video, tell the director to get the cigar cases out of the TV can at least. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] No need, Mr. Tsipras, to reveal in public sight what really happens in the intestines of Maximos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u279	The Prime Minister doesn't smoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u280	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u281	You, SYRIZA Members, where would you imagine in your youth when you made left dreams and discussed how the Left will finally come to power, that it would be time to defend Mr. Kammenos and defend him not only for casinos, not just for talks with the isovites, but now also for scandalous cases of the sale of military material. Mr. Tsipras, you told the Greek people many times that it was all the 'old' in politics that it was all the people who were ruling forty years and not you who came yesterday. Let me remind you - you know that - you have been ruling for almost three years. You are the longest-lived Memorial Prime Minister in this country. [[Noise in the Chamber]] We'll see about that. Of course, I would remind you, if you have forgotten, that Mr Kammenos was first elected a Member in 1993, if I am not mistaken. Isn't that right? This is not exactly what you call a 'new person'. Mr. Kammenos isn't exactly young. But Mr. Kammenos, of course, you exclude him from those who destroyed the country, as if it came from virginity. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time that the Greek people have seen mediators appear in cases involving the Ministry of National Defence and it sounds to be talking about misery. You know, others in the past had assigned the National Defense to their inner-party rivals to rule unreservedly. Everyone knows what their luck was. Mr. Chohatzopoulou was the strong, number two, of the PASOK Government. He solved and tied to the Department of National Defence. He's in jail today. And I would remind you that, due to what happened under the Minister of Tsohatzopoulos, the activity of any broker in military sales in the Pentagon was explicitly prohibited in 2011. You brought them back the middlemen. I don't need to say much more, I think you can do your own interviews. As you can consider yourself, along with your very active and current MPs, how you are the first government to be controlled because you sell military material, recruiting dark persons, bypassing legal procedures and inverting the Tsohatzopoulou patent. He bought guns, you sell, that's the only difference, but certainly as far as you're concerned, at least, the middlemen are the same. And your famous moral advantage, Mr. Tsipras, has become the shortest anecdotes of Greek politics. And your government partner, the man you chose as your partner, when he does not abode vulgar - as he has done today - his political opponents or when he is not extinguished with cash in casinos in London, is now shown to be "difitalizing" shells and bombs in Arab countries with the help of mediators. In any normal country, the Prime Minister would have already renounced the Minister of Defence, at least until the case was settled. But how do you not do it, Mr. Tsipras? Does Mr. Kammenos blackmail you that he's going to drop the government? We all understand that you can no longer live without music from the sirens of power. But with what achievements, Mr. Tsipras, would you go to the polls? With your 15 billion-dollar tax record in Europe and the OECD? That's why you're threatening, and that's why you're causing. That's why you systematically overthrow and pour mud. It's the only thing you know well. It's the only weapon you've got left. Except that, Mr Tsipras, you are no longer in a position to threaten anyone, much more so that a preliminary investigation has now been ordered by the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, which is being conducted by the prosecutor of corruption. And I really want to believe that this time we will not see the same work again: justice is being stumbled on a political face, that the case is being sent to Parliament and that the government is closing it by concise procedures. Let me tell you something, Mr Tsipras, sooner or later you will not avoid it. Elections will be held and parliamentary balances will be changed, and then this case will be investigated, like others, until the last detail. You will not then be able to hide behind today's parliamentary blockade that has said 'no' to any request to set up a committee of inquiry tabled by the opposition. Then all stakeholders will find responsibilities. Of course, as I am sure you know, there will also be no limitation of any criminal liability. So you'll find her in front of you. That is why you have a unique opportunity today, and you and your Minister, in particular, give serious and convincing answers to the questions that we put to the House. Be careful, we are not just asking questions. They are put together by opposition, by public opinion itself. I would advise you, Mr Tsipras, because the Minutes are left, this opportunity not to miss it. So let's go to six questions which I would like you to answer: First of all, why, while Parliament and in agreement with the New Democracy and almost all the parties, had approved an transnational agreement, 'government to goverse', to sell defence material to Saudi Arabia, did you involve a mediator in this matter? Why do intermediaries need to be allowed to do so when they are expressly banned from the 2011 legislative framework? It is worth reading a revulsion from the Deputy Minister, Mr Vitsa, on how - correctly in my view - the government understands the transnational agreements. So, Mr Vitsats said about another case - for which we have not discussed today, but it will be time for her and her to sell the MK 82 and MK 83 bombs at 29-3-2017 in response to Mr Kritsis: 'We cannot make a transaction with someone who is not a state, namely an transnational agreement. Not because the other guy says I'm a state or I represent a state. These things can't be done. The signatures must be signatures of state actors and all the procedure that I have said needs to be done." Very nicely described, and I submit to the Minutes, Mr. Vitsats what "government to goverse" transaction means. Only you didn't do that. You involved a middleman, and I ask why. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Question 2, why was it signed, Mr Tsipras, that the agreement with this mediator, which since 2014 has been involved in serious infringements - has been fined by the Greek authorities - at the same time as our Embassy in Riyadh had explicitly informed - whom, therefore? I imagine the absentee somewhere in the Far East Minister for Foreign Affairs - that this person does not represent Saudi Arabia? Did the Foreign Minister inform you he had this warning? Question No 3, and more substantial, is there, Mr. Tsipras...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u282	Excuse me, where have you seen this?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u283	Wait. You'll ask later. Is there a deal? That is the most essential thing we want to ask. If there's a deal, why haven't 66 million credited to the public funds? If there is no agreement after all, because I heard from Mr Kammenos whispering, we should finally rethink things, because now we have become sensitive, and we are concerned about the issue of war in Yemen - of course you did not know them when you vote for the agreement, all the things your comrades have said, which have now suddenly discovered humanitarian sensitivities. But if there is no agreement - and I would like an explicit answer if there is agreement or no agreement - who is responsible for EUR 66 million lost? Question fourth, after which Mr Papadopoulos was involved in this case, why did you not inform the House? Why didn't you inform the House of the existence of this messenger? Question fifth, the House, as shown by the Minutes, has agreed to sell three hundred thousand missiles to Saudi Arabia. According to the official briefing from Riyadh, from our embassy, a person of the state, whom Mr Kammenos, and our ambassador, and our consul, sent the embassy says that Saudis are interested in hundreds of thousands of missiles, not for three hundred thousand missiles. So where would the two thousand missiles go and what pockets of money from selling these missiles? That's a sixth question. This is a question specifically mentioned by Mr Kammenos. I wanted to confine myself to Mr. Tsipras, but I cannot be tempted to ask this Mr. Kammenos. Has Mr. Kammene attempted to do more work with the Greek State on your day? Do you know or don't you know? In an interview with "SKAI" you said, "We and Papadopoulos have nothing to do with it", meaning that the Greek Government has nothing to do with Papadopoulos, because Papadopoulos is a representative of Saudi Arabia, leaving aside that he was also a representative of Qatar and Emirata. I'm filing the relevant quote in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You say that "we don't know Papadopoulos, we have nothing to do with it". How then explain that by letter of 27 June 2017 from Mr Papadopoulos' company to the Greek Defence Systems - I imagine you know what it is and are the trunk of the Greek Defence Industry - writes Mr Papadopoulos: "In continuation of today's year - 27 June 2017 this - meeting at the office of the Minister of National Defence and his presence - the Minister of National Defence - is confirmed by this letter our interest in the following...", a series of requests for Mr Papadopoulos to rent all the premises of the NSAs and make missiles, bombs and I don't know what else. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Give this paper to Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Kammenos to tell us at long last if they knew Mr. Papadopoulos, if they did not know him and if Mr. Papadopoulos is working on behalf of the Greek Government, the Greek Defence Systems, Qatar, Jordan, Saudi Arabia and I do not know who he is. And now, Mr Tsipras, I come to the most crucial question of all. Count your answer well. Did you know all this, Mr. Tsipras? Did you know all this? Did they all have your approval? After all this, which has been heard in the Chamber, and I imagine you have learned, why might you not have been fully informed, I understand that, in a complex case, you continue to support Mr. Kammenos? You, your Ministerial Council, your MPs? Just a simple word, all right? Do you support him? Yes or no? Clear words, ladies and gentlemen. So respond, Mr Tsipras, please, then on the substance. Today, we ask and you answer. Please don't tell us again about the interests that are fighting you. You've found them well with interests. Don't tell us about interests again. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] If nothing else, Mr. Tsipras, at least you're confined to personal attacks. After all, you are very predictable every time you turn around. And I'll tell you before you take the floor. If you want to have a general debate on corruption, you have nothing but to set the date, we will be here, but today you will apologize for your own things, Mr Tsipras. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting so far at least has to say that it is extremely revealing of what has been said, especially what has not been said. And it is obvious that you have a difficulty explaining something that seems to be a first-sized scandal. All that the Greek people know now, and I must tell you that from you personally, Mr Tsipras, and from your government at least one expectation was that you would ensure transparency, justice, good management of public money, that at least as young people you are would not be so quick to identify with dark assumptions. Today you have proved - and with what you have said, and with what you did not say - that you have also disproved the last expectation of the citizens. That you can't handle the economics we knew well. But now we know that you have also dived in the blurred waters of the scandals. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Watch out, 'cause it's worth it. It matters, Mr Kammene, because you are also the Chief of the Armed Forces, and I imagine that this debate will be heard by several members of the Armed Forces. Today you also endorse the disappointment of the Greek officers who have sworn to guard the homeland, officers who observe the oath they have given to the laws and the Constitution of Greece to prove that even in these years of the breakdown of institutions by the most unreliable government the place has ever known, there are Greeks with principles and values. Like the entire Greek people, Greek officers will know that the days of this government are ending and doing their duty, they will have a quiet conscience and they have absolutely nothing to fear. Mr Tsipras, with your own personal choice you have been identified with Mr Kammenos for more than five years. You're comfortable with him, that's obvious. You have been clapped up with guns to lie, mud and slander, and you will sink tightly at the expense of your tragic failure. So instead, Mr. Tsipras, throw the ball back into the platform, answer us directly about Mr. Kammenos's business at the Ministry of National Defence. And because I'm sure you won't, I'm making you responsible for something even more important. Let us unleash justice to investigate this case. I warn you, for the sake of knowledge, and it is not the first time that I have done so, stop interfering with the work of justice by pressing its officials, launching persecution and targeting institutions that you cannot control. Greece, ladies and gentlemen, is not your chip, and you, as we all do, are controlled by laws. And justice... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Quiet, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u284	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u285	If the president doesn't do his job, I'll make it myself.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u286	That's right. Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u287	Your supposed moral advantage is another myth that collapsed. You're talking about surpluses. You've got nothing else to do with it. And maybe, you know, somewhere you think your political opponents aren't following you in the mud, but even your nerve can't save you. And you won't find refuge in either your impotence or your immunity. The regimes, Mr Tsipras, like yours, are being smashed and expensively paid for the disasters they have caused. After the disastrous first half of 2015, you asked, Mr. Tsipras, for civil forgiveness, invoking your delusion. A while ago you admitted that you were liars, but you weren't thieves. After today's debate, the Greek people have realised that in addition to delusional and conscious lies, you are leading, Mr. Tsipras, an immoral government. And the answer he'll give you will be much louder and will come much sooner than you imagine, and then, Mr. Tsipras, he will not save you any courageous prizes. Citizens will send you the only real place you deserve and the prize of the worst Prime Minister of Postmultiple will be your rightfully. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u288	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u289	Mrs. Gennamas, immediately after the Prime Minister, you will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u290	I now request the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u291	The former staff referred to those colleagues who would not have the floor later. Isn't that right? You will have the floor as long as you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u292	He referred to my name in a slandering way, which is why I want for a minute to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u293	I don't want any tension. Take the floor for a minute and then the Prime Minister will speak again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u294	Mr President, thank you very much. Prime Minister, please enjoy your co-pilot. Slander, liar, and muslim! No material sales with IGG took place on my day and should have known, if it were not in panic, that as Deputy Minister, I had no competence and any involvement in the armaments programmes. In the unique MOU of interest to this company without any mediators I have demanded, without even signing a special clause, that both members be prohibited from using a mediator. I'm closing this. I hope you are very pleased, Mr Tsipras, about the level you have imposed on the political life and the poison that you have constantly been in such a critical period for the country. Mr President, on behalf of the two groups of Parliament, the Democratic Integration and the River I present in the Minutes and the publication of three documents presented by Mr Lovers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u295	You'll do it later. Now you won't.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u296	No, no. Now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u297	You won't do it and won't be received.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u298	There is damage, because you hide critical elements of the debate we have now. Please come to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u299	What are you doing? We're co-chairing now? We gave the floor to Mrs. Gennamas for staff. Immediately afterwards he has the floor and he will testify in the Minutes as well. Please don't take them. The Minutes will not be received. They'll be received in a little while.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u300	She testifies in the Minutes and you say she won't be received?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u301	You can't do that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u302	We are not co-chairing, Mr. Voridis. By concession I gave the floor. You know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u303	When a Member submits to the secretariat, you cannot tell him to testify later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u304	Mr. Voridis, please. Documents are filed in the minutes by someone who has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u305	He had the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u306	He didn't have him. He only had him on staff. Because it happens...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u307	If he testifies...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u308	Mr. Voridis, please do not interrupt. Because she happens to be the party leader who will talk next, she has every jurisdiction. So you all make it easy. There is no need for us to divide this House. You've been so spectacular before. Do not alter the impressions you have made on the essential issue. There is no need for a lawyer from the President of the Democratic Association. That's too much. It's for once. You know what I mean. Prime Minister Alexios Tsipras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u309	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Voridis, you don't have to make Mrs. Gennimata's lawyer. Maybe she's alone. You're a lawyer, but you don't have to make her the lawyer. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Mitsotakis, Mrs Gennamas, as you can see, I am here today and it is my choice to be here. I also asked the President of Parliament and asked the Minister for Defence to postpone. It is unprecedented in time to be a Prime Minister in a timely process of questioning. But I have decided to be here because I am no longer going to tolerate any challenge, no slander and no graphics, Mr Mitsotakis. Because you've crossed the line of graphics with what you're doing. Last week you reached the point of claiming... [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] I listened very carefully and quietly. I didn't interrupt anyone. Please don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u310	Your Members did not do the same, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u311	At first we are. Stop it. What's wrong with you? For God's sake!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u312	Last week you reached the point of claiming that my planned trip to Paris and Brussels for two long scheduled award ceremonys - meeting with the President of France, President Juncker and participation at the summit - was a journey on the occasion, an excuse not to attend the big revelations that you are going to make in the case that you have been going to do for fifteen days, coordinated, all the...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u313	Like the Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u314	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u315	It's okay. I'll hear it. What I have to say will be heard whether they want or not.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u316	I beg your pardon, you spoke seven Members from the same party earlier. You've analyzed everything in duplicate, triple. You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u317	So should I leave from what, ladies and gentlemen? What do you want me to get away from? Get away from confrontation with Mr. Mitsotakis? Neither you who say these nor those who write these things do not believe. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] That is why, when I tabled the letter to the President of Parliament, the New Democracy refused to consent to the transfer of the debate so that it would eventually take place in my absence. Perhaps this is why various parrots have asked again what procedure I shall be in this House. The ridiculous thing about this is that it is the same people who said I was hiding, who today say I'm blackmailing myself. I'm neither hiding nor blackmailing, Mr. Mitsotakis, and I have nothing to fear. And just because I have nothing to fear, Mr. Mitsotakis, when the TV workshops come to my office, I don't dust my office, I don't even take over my office, nor even the gifts I've been given. You, after any television workshop comes to your desk, see what you should do, Mr. Mitsotakis, where you will hide the documentary and receipts for the gifts of "SIEMENS", for the loans of "Creator of Chania", for the remembranced talks found in the litigation and for the secretary of your party. Perhaps, however, and what you failed to find, the E9 for the tax declaration and the 'positive' you have not yet tabled. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] You have to hide! You'll be moving in and there's no TV crew coming home and you can get a little spots! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I have nothing to hide, Mr. Mitsotakis. I have nothing to hide! And just because I have nothing to hide, I'm afraid of nothing. And that's why I'm here to defend the truth and reveal - not to apologize, as you think - your dirty game, your gamblerism and your irrationality, but the size of your fraud. Because the Greek people need to understand exactly what your goal and planning is. Of course, I feel that it may not be exactly your design, because, once again here today, your arguments, even those you have read, were mot a mot of various line articles in Sunday newspapers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u318	The mot a mot is after Paris!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u319	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u320	And you know who I'm talking about, Mr. Tasoula. Nice tiles and humor, but I guess what I'm going to tell you today won't make you so happy. You'll be kicked out of your ass in a minute! Wait! Dear Mr Tasoula, whether we say it in Greek, whether in English or French, the Greek people have understood who gives you a line. They're giving you a media line, the owners of which have been attacked by a rabies attack on the government. What's that for? And since I - you know it well - I do not hide or chew my words, I shall say to you directly: All of a sudden for the last 15 days, when the so-called Panama Papers, Paradise Papers, following the unfortunate question you have put about the violence and you have been apologizing for your secretary's talks with circuits of violence, following the revelations regarding the submission of his secretary Mr. Christoforikos, your breasts and family friend, there is a coordinated media crept against the government, and the late friend of yours, who is now more often going through the prosecutor's threshold than the door of his house and has bought seven newspapers - all of his seven newspapers that are lysing against the government, but also his late friend now, his late chief, who has been at his disposal a while ago in the knives. But now they've found them. And they found them to face who? Their common enemy. And who's their common enemy? This government that wants to put an end to the complexion, corruption, fraudulent circuits, the reasonable immunities, the tax-hunters. And don't forget, of course, to add to the two favourite latent partners and your favorite bearer, who you brought today - and that's why I told the mot a mot, Mr. Tasula - everything he wrote on Sunday. And we've known for so many years what it's cut and how it's paid for what it's worth. And now that the time has come to pay the dues, because a government has been found and he said, "We don't do you a favor, you have to pay as everyone else pays," he resents, blackmails, he has lost control. This is the reality of a median lobby that guides you. They're giving you a line. And that's where you became the New Democracy, Mr. Mitsotakis. In the anguish these businessmen have had to restore access to the power that has been lost for a long time, they have done nothing but cause only noise and damage. But it's not that simple. Look out! It's no accident they're targeting Kammenos. There's the little game, "you two, you don't match." You all know very well and our views and our positions, but also the honesty of the communication we have. But Kammen, you're not targeting him because it's your fault of Kammenos. You don't want to hit Burned. You want - and above all those who give you a line with their headlines - to hit the government. Why in the depth of their sick minds is what? Looking for the way, after parentheses have ended, and we pass the assessments and the economy comes out of the crisis, to create destabilisation conditions, considering it to be the weak link, because they want one thing at all costs: that this government cannot get the country out of the crisis. And you follow them blindly. Or should I say that you're following them exactly for the opposite reason, because you have eyes and you see? You see, then, how the story ended that 'is a matter of days', that 'assessments don't pass', that 'the economy is falling apart', that 'we are getting to the rocks'. You see that it is this government that succeeds where you failed five years and not only will it lead the country out of the crisis, not only will it establish the Greek economy on strong and stable bases, not only will it support the social majority in any way it can - and it is already doing so, as was done with the social dividend for the second consecutive year - but for these reasons it will not only be a government that will reach the end of its term of office, but it will also win the next elections. And that's what makes you panic, Mr. Mitsotakis! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Because, you see, no matter how much reinforcement you take from the various newly-born doctors who tell you what you want to hear, the climate changes. And if we succeed - and if we succeed - in getting out of the memorials in August 2018, in September - October 2019, when we have the opportunity - then there will be elections, hang on - to oppose the next day, then you will only have as an argument the catastrophe that you have constantly highlighted for four years, and we will have achievements, results and vision for the next day. That's what you're worried about. And it worries you, of course, because it cannot pass through your mind not only that for another two years you will be where you are today, but possibly for two plus four. That's your point. You are addicted to power, you have suffered great damage that has been forced for the first time to lose it and the drowned one is caught by his hair. But I wanted to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, what exactly do you think? Do you think that's how governments fall from barons and mechanisms of misappropriation within the state structure? Wrong misfortune! And it is this error that leads you to follow their irrational chord and, of course, to follow and read here in the House what they tell us in the media they control. I, Mr Mitsotakis, would like to tell you one thing: you spoke of a gut and of mud to me. You know very well, Mr Mitsotakis, that this is not our natural space. It is not our natural place, the brush of scandals, money laundering, hatred, interlocutory and undermining. At some point I told you in the past - I don't remember if it was in the first or second assessments, which you had brought the disaster - that you're trying to cover everything in the dark, because in the dark the differences disappear. But we want the light. And that's why I'm here today, to defend the light. Why 15 days now, all the Greek people hear about this case is inaccurate screams and scorpion words, which if they put them together? Impressions are being created. ‘Saudi Arabia’, ‘inviting’, ‘equipment’, ‘Saudi Arabia’. And no one has understood why you're accusing them and who you blame. That's why I want to take things from the start, because people need to understand the size of your fraud. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the main argument for the media, but also for the Police Department? The main argument is that the Minister of National Defence attempted to sell military material, which the Greek Army had no reason to keep it, and how he attempted to sell it at the highest possible prices to obtain the highest possible profit for the Greek State. You say, however, that he chose not to speak directly with Saudi Arabia, but to speak with mediators. If I'm not mistaken, that's your main argument. First and foremost, here we are not dealing with a mediator, but with a Saudi-owned Arab. But you say that all this is not correct. And why can't they? Because it was our embassy at Riyadh that pointed out - and that is why I tried at some point to interrupt you, Mr Mitsotakis, where do you know this, where you saw this? - that our ambassador, he says, in Riyadh was the one and attempted to show that this businessman is not the chosen one of Saudi Arabia, but he is the chosen one of Mr. Kammenos. I will not dwell on all the revealing and entertaining things that have been said in this House Step by the Minister himself, that he is suddenly making you a great surprise to hear about him, while you have been with him on missions to Russia and you know him very well. But I won't stand on this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u321	Forty years ago?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u322	Well, it doesn't matter. You've known him for forty years, Mr. Chiara, that means. So you must know him very well. But I won't stand on this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u323	Such netting?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u324	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u325	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u326	It's been clarified, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u327	I'm not going to stand on this at all. But I'll stand by from now on. Your basic argument, your main argument, has to be - Mr Mitsotakis, listen to this - by saying, as you obviously know - I do not know how you know, perhaps somewhere goes our minds, seeing the Parliamentary spokesman of the Democratic Assent as well as taking responsibility for submitting to Parliament top secret documents - that our embassy in Riyadh was the one which told us in time not to carry out this procedure. So let's go see something more, because God loves the thief, but he loves the housekeeper. And what you are talking about and you have the possibility of accessing, possibly using state mechanisms, is the ultimate misery - for this country it is the ultimate misery - to fund, is the maximum form of partying institutions that should operate in the public interest rather than in the political confrontation of this kind. But we'll see that below too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u328	They're money?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u329	What do you mean they're funding?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u330	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u331	Let's go down.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u332	Now, why didn't you answer us?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u333	Don't ask questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u334	Of course, of course! Transparency is a public asset!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u335	Are they being financed, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u336	Mr. Brutsi, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u337	We should then call on Mr Loverdos, who, in Mr Simitis's governments, has also been a State Secretary, to bring us the minutes of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, when hatreds have passed and been sealed like hails on the right and left, to see who has responsibility, who has signed up, who has not signed and who has to see if this is the function of a favoured state.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u338	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u339	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u340	But I will not be interrupted, because I will answer you on the substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u341	Mr. Voridis, Mr. Kedicoglou, do not cause answers, because then it opens up a lot.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u342	This Saudi empowered Mr Papadopoulos - I learned his name recently, you knew him before - came in May 2016. And in May 2016 he presented his mandate, not from an official of the Ministry of Defence of Saudi Arabia, but from the armaments director of the Ministry of Defence of Saudi Arabia. The Greek side, as it had to, carried out the procedures provided for, in order to establish the authenticity of this authorisation and requested in a document at the end of August 2016 - a document from the Ministry of National Defence, the Directorate-General for Defence Equipment and Investment - to the military follower of our country - we do not have in Saudi Arabia, but we have in the United Arab Emirates - to make the official questions to determine the authenticity of this authorisation. In September 2016, there is indeed an official request from the AACC, our next defence, to the Saudi Defence Ministry for the validation of authenticity. I am tabling these documents in the Minutes - although the Minister has tabled them, but I am also presenting them - both the authorisation of Mr Papadopoulos, who presented in May 2016 and the document from the Ministry of Defence to the military follower, but also the actions he has taken in order to establish the authenticity. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In September 2016, Saudi Arabia replied that this document is authentic and on 17 November 2016 there was an official certificate for use by the Ministry of Defence of Saudi Arabia. In fact, he's not any executive he signed, he's the director of the armaments committee. In November 2016, take note, on November 17, 2016, we have the official certification for use, that the authorisation is authentic and we have the so-called "END-06R CERTIFICATE", that is, the certificate that our embassy validated in Riyadh. On November 17, our embassy in Riyadh knows that it is authentic, so we have nothing to do with mediators, we have to do with an authorised representative from the Ministry of Defence of Saudi Arabia, who will deal with the Greek authorities, will negotiate, in order to reach an international agreement. Because that was where they ended up in an transnational agreement. And I now come to the 'cooked'. I would never do that, but I am obliged to do so, especially after the strange behaviour of the last few days and the tabling of e-mails and also of practices by the CSCE in Parliament. And you know, I don't want to stay at all in this debate, which is an important debate on responsibilities, criminals, etc. Let them take care of them. I imagine they'll be involved. But I'll deal with the substance. Ladies and gentlemen, the foreign minister's correspondence - which unfortunately cannot be present at today's meeting, because it is on a scheduled mission abroad, but I have complete communication with him in the last few days - is being contacted with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with top secret special-handed telegrams. You, therefore, support all your claim and all your scandalology and parafiscality regarding non-formal representation in the opinion - you say - of the Greek Ambassador to Riyadh, that he was not the original representative, despite the fact that the Greek side did the right things and had official documents from the Ministry of Defence that he was the representative. So I've been uprooted to these telegrams. These telegrams will not be filed in the Minutes, but I will give the opportunity both to the Chief of Officerial Response Mr Mitsotakis and to the presidents of the parties to come to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and to read them. And I'll refer to...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u343	The other MPs, what are we? You must give it to the House before the Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u344	Your leaders will see them, Mr. Tragakis. You don't trust Mr. Mitsotakis to read them right?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u345	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u346	You should testify or you should not use.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u347	Does it bother you? Didn't you want me to tell you what it contains? Aren't you curious, Mr. Voridis?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u348	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u349	So, Mr Ambassador to Riyadh, of course, has informed me that there is a sworn administrative examination, which will examine all matters properly and on an ad hoc basis - positions, opinions, acts and omissions. It's not my job to judge. But, in fact, four days after that day, on November 17, 2016, where he validated the certificate that he told us he was Saudi-Arab official in Greece, he sent a telegram to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, in which he said, among other things, you know, there is a reliable source - notice "reliable source" - located in the vicinity of the Saudi Minister, who asked me to meet. This source says, in short, that because in the process, which has started and ratified it, a Greek company is involved, it should come directly to Greece, in order for it to have cooperation, in order to get the Saudi side to a lower price the purchase of the material. And it concludes as follows: "Since the Greek side, first of all, this link of the Minister of Defence intends to go directly to Athens for private consultation, settlement and payment." Yes, no matter what.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u350	That's what we're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u351	Sit down, Mr. Georgiades, don't rush.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u352	What he says is what he says.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u353	Well done, what you're talking about. Don't be in a hurry. Don't rush me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u354	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u355	The procedure was initiated, not by the source and by the man, who appeared to the ambassador as an intermediary - take care - but was initiated in accordance with the normal procedure as it had begun, since the side of the Ministry of National Defence had all assurances and approvals that it was official. And I'm saying, right, because if Kammenos didn't do this, you should have come to tell him: What are you doing? You have someone who tells you he'll buy more expensive, and because you're listening to a telegram that someone else, an intermediary, wants to buy cheaper, you'll give him cheaper? So when all this noise broke out - and strangely enough, I repeat, in the last fortnight, because this has been a long time ago - the Minister for Foreign Affairs asked our ambassador in Riyadh for an explanation: Golden Man, why do you think he is not the original representative of the Saudi side, but someone else is, perhaps, the source, the one you asked us to come and where you have learned about all this? His answer to the Foreign Minister at that time was oral. He said: I have learned them because this source is very close to where the decisions are made. He was present at the Ministerial Council and heard the debate. And because the Minister of Foreign Affairs is an old caraban, he called the ambassador of Saudi Arabia to Greece and asked him: Is there any third party attending the meetings of the Ministerial Council? Answer: Of course, no. Then I asked our ambassador to Riyadh to name a new special control telegram what this source is, who this intermediate is. So then, our ambassador to Riyadh, who is your main argument, says, among other things: Home information in November 2016 on Saudi interest in buying this material, as well as information about being distributed to a recent Ministerial Council, came to me from the same person. And you will all imagine, of course, that it will be some Saudi man, someone near the palace, a courtman, a prince, a prince. It is, however, Greek, ladies and gentlemen. And the name of this: George Sfakianakis from Heraklion Crete! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] [[Noise in the Chamber]] I have them at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u356	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u357	So another Greek intermediary, who at best - I say, I do not want to incriminate anyone - wanted to find a better price, that is, less profitable for the Greek side, towards the Saudi side. Worst case, what am I supposed to imagine? It is available for you to read the special controls. God loves the thief, but he loves the housekeeper. With your ammunition! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Who's this, the other intermediate, you guys look for it. All I managed to find is that there was once a financial advisor to demilitarisation in 2011 to Mr. Papaconstantinou. I don't know what man is. Maybe he's honorable. In any case, it is not the Saudi side. He's an intermediary too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u358	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u359	After these revelations, you personally, Mr Mitsotakis, who for 15 days you are now orchestrating this slander, must be courageously and boldly demanding an apology from both the Minister and the Greek people. Because what you're questioning is the Department of National Defence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Diplomatic Body. You question the authority of our country. You're not hurting the government. You're hurting the country with your behavior. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I'm closing with this and I'm coming down from Stepma: So I want to tell you, Mr. Mitsotakis...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u360	Just a minute, Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, answers have been requested and evidence has been provided. Please, be quiet. That's the process today.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u361	I don't know if you think that with the worms and the bubbles you will succeed with distraction to change the conversation and get out of where it hurts you, from corruption, tax evasion, from the Panama Papers, to talk about Kammenos who tried to get more about the Greek state. [[Applause from the ANE wing]] Even if you think so, you won't make it, Mr. Mitsotakis. As you have seen, I answered the substance today. I didn't just say what you guys think is the ball on the platform. The other debate, however, do not think you will avoid it. You will give answers to the Greek Parliament. So I would like to inform you that I will put forward a proposal for a pre-dated debate in Parliament on tax evasion, so here we will see what answers you will give, Mr Mitsotakis, for these big, crucial issues concerning the Greek people: the EUR 520 billion that have left the country tax-free, and we have led to the crisis. That's why you'll be asked to answer sometime, Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u362	Thank you. Mrs. Gennamas, please, you have the floor. And when you get up to the Step, they'll bring me to sign the documents you just deposited in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u363	Mr President, obviously time does not count.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u364	Please wait a minute, Mrs. Gennamas, to be quiet in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u365	Time obviously doesn't count until your MPs leave the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u366	No problem of time, Mrs. Gennamas. Just a minute, Madam President, if you'll excuse me for being quiet. Please don't make wells and those who don't want to watch, let them leave. Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u367	Thank you very much. Mr President, first of all, I would like to protest very strongly because I find it unacceptable for the heads of parties to be slapped into Parliament and for the microphones to be closed while I am trying to reveal very important facts for the debate we have. I am pleased that, at last, you agree to submit these documents in the Minutes of this House, because they prove two things: firstly, that only as an intergovernmental agreement with a demand from the Saudis could the agreement go ahead, while the government had rushed months to sign an agreement with Mr Papadopoulos. Secondly, that, knowingly or not, the Prime Minister himself had signed for EUR 300,000, while the Saudis only asked for EUR 100,000. I consider both important elements to be extremely important and should therefore be made public and given to all Members of this House. And because I cannot really watch this government that is lost to the middlemen, I would like to say that I had no doubt, because we have no delusionalities, that Mr Tsipras would once again come to cover his co-pilot and cover up a scandalous case. He has done so many times with the works and the days of Mr Kammenos, he is doing so here too. I would like to open up a parenthesis here, because the Prime Minister once again tried to smash the great democratic party. Listen, let's get this over with. We're the ones who did self-cleaning in our space. We are the ones who, by a majority of ours, sent the prosecutors who put the finger on honey and we are not picking up a conversation! If you dare, do it yourself. Stop covering up the cases. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] We have not only confined ourselves to this, but we have strengthened the institutional framework so that justice can do its job. We made the financial prosecutors, the prosecutors of corruption, the special arrangements, so that the political people can be checked for the black money. We have abolished the compensatory measures, we have abolished the intermediaries from the procedures and contracts in armaments so that they can be clean and transparent. And we were, of course, waiting for a government that started with the Left's staff to use all these tools in its hands and not try to return to the most difficult times and repeat the same mistakes. The Prime Minister has asked for a postponement of the debate to present himself. Really, what was the Prime Minister afraid it would happen if he was gone? And his ministers to threats unleashed, referring to unspeakable times. At this point I would like to stress that the threat to the specific articles of the Criminal Code is being used to fade the House, the parties and the media. We have signed with Mr Theodorakis the texts we are tabling.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u368	Repeat.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u369	The President said he would sign them while I was in Stepma, because that can be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u370	I will not sign them or sign them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u371	Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u372	Continue your speech, Mrs. Gennamas.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u373	We'll give it to the public.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u374	I really don't understand why. What are you so afraid of? Why are you so scared? [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Mr. Kammenos himself gave it to the public.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u375	Mrs. Gennamas, please continue your speech. In the end, I'll say something.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u376	The specific provisions of the Criminal Code on violations of the country's secrets - in this case, there are no secrets insulting the country's national interests - have been used in 1959 to strike the Left and arrest the seventy-five of it, including Manolis Glezos. Threats to MPs, threats to us, to the democratic party, just don't pass. Take the news. We have a democracy and let lovers of other times and other regimes take care of them. The House will be informed, whether you like it or not. We don't scandal and we won't imitate you. All we care about is to shine the truth. We are returning the threats. We were neither afraid of them nor afraid of them, because we have nothing to cover up and nothing to cover up. Ladies and gentlemen, all this together with your economic and social policy betrays the ideas and values of the Left, its heritage. All your applause from now on, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, have in mind that it covers the morbid political reality you serve. You're becoming more and more of the same. I'm really sorry. I am sorry to say this: you are united by the complicity for the truce that you have passed into the neck of the Greek people. However, let us come in detail to the specific issues that the behaviour and actions of the Minister of Defence and the government as a whole have created. The first question: Mr. Kammens attempted to deceive the House, because he announced to the House's Committee on Equipment in January 2017 that he intends to sell three hundred thousand shells to Saudi Arabia without intermediaries instead of 64 million euros. But Mr. Papadopoulos was already refreshingly entering the Ministry of Defence as a negotiator and negotiator. Attention. Mr Papadopoulos was already convicted of a court ruling on smuggling and you continue to support him. It is clear that Mr Kammenos has concealed the illegal use of mediators by the House. I would remind you that under Law 3978/2011, the then PASOK government explicitly prohibited the use of defence intermediaries, intermediaries or agents in the procurement, supply, service or works process. The second question is: A major issue arises with the decisions of the CSCE and, above all, the second one, because the first decision of the government body is a transnational agreement. The second, however, in March 2017, is to make this agreement with the mediator, whose text is attached and signed by the Prime Minister, the Defence Ministers, the Foreign Ministers and many others. We are directly asking the Prime Minister if he is ignorant to sign this decision and now covers Mr Kammenos or if he was fully aware of the action of his Minister and the role of Mr Papadopoulos. We expect a straight and clear answer. In any case, however, the responsibility of the Prime Minister himself is great. The third question: Mr Kammenos continues to support Mr Papadopoulos as a mediator, while our country's diplomatic authorities in Saudi Arabia have informed us in time that he has no authorisation to sign the conventions and that an authorised official delegation is coming. With the tolerance of Mr Kammenos, the mediator required specific formalities in the contract. And finally, however, Mr. Kammenos sends his trusted entrepreneur to sign the contract with Mr. Papadopoulos in Thessaloniki. Here it is quite understandable that comments are superfluous! The fourth question: Saudi Arabia's official delegation was discussing the market, as I said a hundred thousand and not three hundred thousand shells ago, as Mr Kammenos said and decided on the relevant governmental bodies. Major question: Where would the other two thousand shells go? Who would be delivered to and for what use? With what decision of the governmental body and what information to Parliament and what exchanges for mediators? We are all aware of what dangerous issues are for our national interests and the country's international position could create such an action. And I do not want to say anything more, precisely for reasons of national interest. A fifth question: The debate with the Saudi official delegation is suspended when they raise the request to transfer the equipment under their own responsibility. And the question is clear: why was the Greek side annoyed? Is the information for a specific preference for a particular transport company or for a particular transport company? And why was she? The sixth question: Mr. Kammenos does not hesitate to attack and prejudice Greek officers because they raised justified objections to his demands. Because they did their duty and honoured their vow and mission. In his tactics, Mr Kammenos actually proves that he does not respect the Armed Forces and perceive them as a means of serving his own interests. It is characteristic that the emergency meeting at the office of the Minister of National Defence, with the presence of soldiers who have demonstrated handcuffs, with the brutal behaviour of the Minister himself, the order from the same commander of a senior officer and his escort and his detention even for a while by militants.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u377	You didn't just say we did.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u378	This is a serious attack on the dignity of the officers and the army. Such an attack on the Armed Forces has never been made. He's unprecedented in time! And only on this occasion, the Minister of National Defence should have been released by the Prime Minister. The seventh question: Mr Kotzias, Minister for Foreign Affairs, is attempting to cover up this suspicious and dark case with the argument of protecting secret documents, documents that everyone eventually knows, which do not affect the interests of the country or the Armed Forces, but simply reveal that Mr Papadopoulos was not authorised by the Saudis to sign any convention. And finally, two questions arise. One to the Minister of Foreign Affairs: Why are you trying to hide that the sale had to be done by a transnational agreement and without the signature of intermediaries? The second, to the President of Parliament himself: Mr President, what is the offence, the concealment of critical elements from the House or their disclosure? Because here we're going to go crazy, finally! [[Applause from the wings of the PASOK Democratic Assent - DIMAR and the River]] Why didn't you react so many times that government actors were playing a card war in here with classified documents to set up people's courts? Mr Kammenos himself has previously used classified documents from the Step of the House and we have not seen any sensitivity on the part of SYRIZA. On 7 November he gave Members of Parliament and posted the contract with the mediator on the Ministry's page, which is allegedly classified and you today refuse to receive. Do you have a responsibility, yes or no, to inform Members, even by reading and not handing out classified documents? But it seems, Mr President, that you are judging a card. It is necessary, ladies and gentlemen, for us all to support, in practice, the principle of discrimination of powers and not the concepts which the government wants, namely executive power, dominating the other powers. But whatever governmental factors do, we tell them that transparency is a part of democracy and is not negotiable. Ladies and gentlemen, I now address the Prime Minister himself and ask directly again: did he inform you, yes or no, of all his actions and transactions by Mr Kammenos? If so, you are completely co-responsible and should answer for it. If not, why do you cover him and why do you keep him in this position? This is not the first time that a glorious political debate has been held on the works and days of Mr Kammenos. Who forgets his raw, uncovered intervention in pending judicial cases? Who justifies his direct talks and transactions with prisoners of isovites? Who closes eyes to his arrogant actions that cause the tested Greek people? Who can tolerate using the army as its property and feud, or for its communication, even at risk of national issues? The answer is known. Mr. Tsipras, Mr. SYRIZA and his staff, to secure your chairs, of course. Is it worth the cost? I really wonder what they say, what the real left-wing fighters and progressive citizens are responding to this question and these behaviours. And it seems that Mr. Tsipras thinks he can still play a double table, on the one hand, to ensure as the so-called radical left hand his appearance and, on the other hand, to give his far-right co-pilot a white cheque to do the dirty work of extermination of his political opponents and collapse of institutions. But this is the fairy tale! The Greek people have heard from you! The end comes for both of us! Entangled, go directly to the cliff, because the Greek people's answer will be merciless in the next national election! [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] And of course, we're not finishing this case today. I am sorry that in Parliament this critical period for Greeks and Greeks the atmosphere is stirring. Fortunately, out of here, in society an air of optimism is blowing up new hopes with the great democratic progressive party that returns. And since I am not speaking - and I am not used to it - I am tabling Article 25 which calls for the agreement to be entered into, the MOU rather than the purchase of materials in Paris, where the use of intermediaries is expressly prohibited. And I put back to the Minutes the documents in question - documents proving the truth of my words, of what I said before and I support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u379	Thank you, Mrs. Gennamas. You will listen, please, a little bit, to me as President, that is.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u380	At the right point.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u381	What do you mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u382	Nothing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u383	What? For what?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u384	All announcements are made as soon as he shows up at the Step...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u385	No announcements! What are you talking about? Do you realize what's going on?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u386	I fully understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u387	Mrs. Kanelle, I'm sorry, you haven't understood what's going on. You'll realize that in a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u388	Believe me, I'm aware.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u389	Okay, I accept that you've understood, but listen to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u390	Seventeen years in here, I'd learn something and stupid to be...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u391	I obviously endorse the document tabled by Mrs Gennamata with the signatures of Mrs Gennamata and Mr Theodorakis, which says their intention to submit, after saying some things, which have been said in their communications these days - you have said so before, Mrs Gennamata - a special handling document and two documents of the CSCE's decisions. This document is obviously a monograph and is part of the Minutes and the speech of the President. [[The above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice, is presented here.]] From there on, as far as all these documents, which were submitted for days ago by Mr Loverdos, are concerned, I do not know whether they are the same now. I can't do crossings in the air. Well, if they're the same, they'll have exactly the same luck.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u392	It's exactly the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u393	"Just luck" means they will enter an envelope and go to the Director General of Legislative Work.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u394	One is tabled by Mr. Kammenos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u395	Please listen. The Minutes of the House are set out in the debate held at the Conference of Presidents three days ago. It is part of the Minutes, because it is the exact answer. I apply this decision and I will read to you the relevant points, as well as the only objection that was raised by this Mr Kegeroglu, from whom I apologise if I had considered that he had consented. But you will understand from the Minutes that I am not making any interpretation of intentions. It was not clear to me at least. I fully accept that, with Mr Kegeroglu's objection and on any other side, an objection to the extensive minutes has been made to this decision, which, and now, I fully apply to the oath I have given in this Chamber. I say this because there were some - not you Members, of course, - who are perpetuating the public speech, who have even spoken of a solemn President of this House, because we did not make this House part of a problem. And that would be a very big problem, because under Article 15(1) of the Code of Law on Government and Government Institutions - for example. 63/2005, Chapter I98-The Governing Council is a collective government body. According to paragraph 11 of Article 16 of the Code, the minutes of the collective governmental bodies are confidential. The confidentiality of the discussions of the Ministerial Council applies as far as the confidentiality is concerned. They are not the provisions relating to access to procedural proceedings. It is not the provisions concerning access to personal data from lists, etc., around which an entire debate has been developed for days. I personally did not take the floor or come out publicly to explain the distinction. The distinction is clear because we held a meeting two hours at the Conference of Presidents. They're state secrets. These are state secrets from the Ministerial Council and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which can only be obtained with the permission of the Government's Secretary-General himself - and can only be obtained.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u396	The Minister has them in mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u397	Mr. Loverdo, please. You've been talking five days in all the media. Now I'll talk in here after you've brought the matter back. Please, too!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u398	You're the only ones who talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u399	Please, too!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u400	The Minister gave it on November 7th.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u401	According to the article, it's classified. Conservation of confidentiality of practices is a duty of the secretary of the collective body concerned. In accordance with Article 18(6) of the Staff Code, the Secretary-General of the HRC is to carry out the duties of the Secretary-General of the Government. If matters of competence of the Ministry of National Defence under Article 3 of Law 2292/1995 FEC I35 are discussed, he shall assist the Secretary-General of the Government in the duties of the Secretary-General of the Ministry of National Defence, senior or senior officer of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In addition, in accordance with Article 9(1) of the same Code, to which the earlier provision refers, the official minutes of the Ministerial Council are and remain confidential for thirty years. Conservation of the confidentiality of the minutes is a duty of the Secretary-General of the Government and of all the staff of the General Secretariat. If, therefore, any third-party document covered by the above-mentioned confidentiality has to be handed over to the Secretary-General of the Government, who has a duty to protect confidentiality. For other documents, which are from ministries, such as the recent record of the Cyprus Fact or the archives from the Ministries decades ago, the authority that has described them, and only the authority itself - in this case, the Ministry of Defence - has the right and the obligation - only this, is not the Secretary-General of the Government - to declassify them through a process. That's the case law. This is how the House has completely gone over all these years. I repeat, access has been given in the past only for the charges that I have told you, which relate to personal data, namely lists or records that actually come here from the prosecutors. After I read this and made a proposal in this regard, the representative of the Democratic Integration Mr Kegeroglu alone, while they were all given the floor, said this: 'Because there were actually two issues which were actually discussed regardless of each other, I would like to say a word about the first thing you said. Mr Loverdos has submitted classified copies to the House to the Bureau to judge the Bureau, according to what is in place, how it will handle them. I have to say that in the past, in the context of parliamentary scrutiny, when we requested confidential documents, we were not given, but we were allowed to see them without getting copies. This was the case in the past in the context of the parliamentary control which had not existed. It was not a day of parliamentary scrutiny for classified documents, not obviously for top secret documents or an application for documents or anything else.’ That was Mr. Kegeroglu's placement. I repeat, I thought - and I apologise to him - that, through this position, he had actually covered the proposal. Of all the other political forces, there has been no objection to what we have done. So, as I did now, we delivered the relevant documents to the Directorate-General to go to the Secretary-General of the Government. I am tabling all the minutes of the detailed debate of the Conference of Presidents and I would ask that this matter be closed here. [[The above mentioned minutes of the Conference of Presidents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice, are submitted for the minutes.]] I believe that the creation of impressions, with various things that have been heard commonly in the past few days, must not dominate our political speech today.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u402	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u403	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u404	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u405	Mr. Voridis and Mrs. Gennimata are asking for the floor. Not you, Mr. Loverdo. You've been talking about this for a week, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u406	I've spoken to the House...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u407	Today you don't have the floor. Mr. Koutsubas will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u408	I have the Minutes and you'll give me the floor later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u409	Mr. Loverdo, please. You'll make me give the floor right away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u410	Follow the same procedure that you have respected...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u411	Mrs. Gennamas, I won't give you the floor either. Mr. Koutsubas will have the floor, because before...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u412	I understand...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u413	Mrs. Gennamas, you've tried to get in the way before. Do you understand what you've done? You took the floor on staff and wanted to get drunk. The fact that you're a party leader doesn't allow you to get drunk. Do you understand that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u414	I understand why...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u415	You've got the floor on staff to remove the confidentiality. I'm so sorry! Mr Vorides has the floor for two minutes, and then the Secretary-General of the JRC. [[Noise from the Wing of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR]] Please! There will be no discomfort and arbitrary action in here. At the panels and the channels only. Mr. Voridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u416	Mr President, I am reading Rule 164...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u417	Are we going to report the articles of the Rules of Procedure so that Koutsubas won't speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u418	Mrs Canelli, I was given the floor by the President. If you don't want...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u419	Do you want to talk after Mr. Koutsuba?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u420	I don't have a problem. If you give me the floor now, I'll only need thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u421	Here, Mr. Voridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u422	Rule 164 states that all documents submitted to Parliament by parliamentarians, by government, by ministers, are handed over to the competent Office of Parliament and registered in the relevant books.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u423	The second paragraph has been read.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u424	Two minutes. Members shall have the right to request the Director of the Office to take into account any document submitted to the office. Look out, Mr. President. I heard your reasoning. I'm not bypassing him. I repeat...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u425	It's lex specialis...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u426	What about the secrets?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u427	Mr. Vitsa, there's no distinction. Explain why there is no discrimination. Because if the Member is in breach of something, he will do so on his own responsibility. He is responsible for what he is tabling. So every Member who submits himself takes the responsibility for and assumes that responsibility, without the Bureau being able to judge that 'I refuse to receive it'. If the Member is badly tabling this, he is inspected by the Member, but you are obliged to receive it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u428	Thank you very much. I analyzed earlier why the Criminal Code says another thing. When the Bureau - and the Vice-President, Mr Kaklamanis rightly did - sees lines and scored five from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and knows very well what he will do to protect the House, Mr Voridis. The Secretary of the Central Commission and President of the JRC Parliamentary Group, Mr Koutsoubas, speaks. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u429	Mr President, you are wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u430	Mr. Athanasios, please very much. Whether I'm wrong to formulate it. Thank you. Please be quiet. Mr. Kutsuba, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u431	Mr President, you could say all these clarifications, procedural issues, after the debate has been concluded at the level of political leaders, anyway, since you have given the floor, and they have been followed by about two more, as far as I know. You could have made your explanations there very well. Because if I return to my speech - because it is a political point of view and you must take it seriously, in addition to the various legal tertiary tertiary matters - it is not at all necessary to reply to me again. Do one thing at the end and answer these issues and do your dialogue with the Civic Opposition, with other parties, with which you are either associated on all these issues. Ladies and gentlemen, in this case, the booze of a system that eats its breads emerges. We have no doubt that this is a major scandal today, since the sale of arms systems, weapons of all kinds to states - murderers, such as Saudi Arabia, which is intervening raw, bombing other peoples. That is why none of you have spoken so far and from the government - both SYRIZA and ANEL - and the Minister of Defence and from the Quaestorial Opposition or from other parties. This case is a great scandal, and if the sale of arms was made or made, in any case, or would be made directly through states and governments, i.e. by agreement and sale between the Government of SYRIZA - ANEL with Saudi Arabia and if the sale were made...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u432	Please, just a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u433	No, don't interrupt me, Mr. President. That's enough. You've interrupted us all this time. In case, I say again, that the sale was made an attempt to take place through a third party, mediator, miserable, smuggler or I don't know what else - things are heard here - but it ends up with the same cause. Ladies and gentlemen, in order for the Greek people and Parliament to have a more specific picture, it must also be aware of processes carried out in Saudi Arabia in recent years, but above all of the reorientation of the axes and anti-axles created in the region and internationally. In addition to the processes in the economic, political and military spheres carried out within the Saudi political system itself, with rapid changes in the points of power and the strong corners of the Saudi bourgeoisie and the Saud royal house, there are also serious processes in relations between that state and the United States of America, with other states and countries in the region. For example, during Mr Obama's governance in the United States, there were clouds, as we all know, in US relations with Saudi Arabia. With the rule of Trump, their relations were strengthened by new arms purchase agreements worth $380 billion. These are thirty-four agreements in defence, oil and air transport. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Mr. Athanasios, please. I hear you even talking. And I speak loudly. I'm not anyone who speaks too slowly.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u434	Mercy, Mr. President! Mr. Athanasios, if you want to talk, go out! This thing can't be happening!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u435	I am heard by the entire Chamber and by the Greek people. I hear you here, and I hear what you're saying. Do you want me to repeat what you said to your colleague? Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u436	You're right, Mr. Kutsuba. Mr. Athanasios, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u437	You're right. I'm sorry, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u438	You can continue, Mr. Kutsuba.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u439	In addition, Saudi Arabia along with Israel is the spear's peak in hardening the attitude of the United States towards Iran on its nuclear programme. Saudi Arabia also found itself in a strong controversy with Syria and Assad and supported armed forces, in order to promote its interests jointly with the USA and other oil tanks there in the Gulf, as well as with Israel, Turkey and the European Union. INTERPOL-UN Security Council Special Notice web link: https://www.interpol.int/en/notice/search/un/465 Also, in areas under the control of ISIS in Syria and Iraq, school books and manuals of the Ministry of Education of Saudi Arabia, identified on many issues - most of them, I would say - were taught with perceptions of ISIS jihadists. In Riyadh, too, lately, these days, they meet various political forces of the Syrian opposition and they go by saying. The conflicts of competition, such as Iran, are reflected in the Yemen war, a country that is the poorest of the Arab peninsula, but has strategic passages to international shipping, Mandep, located in the south-west and from where the largest volume of goods and energy to China and China and other Asian and Pacific countries passes. Since March 2015, the imperialist attack of Saudi Arabia and its allies, such as the United Arab Emirates, Egypt, the USA, has begun, with the consequences of the massacres and starvation of millions of civilians and the strengthening of the jihadists of Al-Qaeda and the "Islamic State", which gives the best pretext for other forces. The fact is that Saudi Arabia has encountered considerable difficulties, failing to prevail in this war, despite the wealth and the extravagance of troops that it has confronted against the Yemeni anti-regulatory Houdi Shia. The essence, of course, of Saudi Arabia's confrontation with Iran is the rampant competition between their ruling ranks on behalf of their own monopolistic groups, which is also involved in the reordering of their international allies. Of all this, therefore, it is understandable why the sale of arms in such a country is a first-sized scandal. The Government would have been involved in this sale in Saudi-Arab aggressive warfare operations in Yemen, responsible for the World Health Organisation for two hundred and a hundred million cholera cases of the dead, due to the almost total destruction of the country's infrastructure, first of those related to the provision of health care. The Greek Government, in its policy, puts oil into a conflict, which has been recorded, including the use, even in residential areas, of internationally banned cluster weapons, responsible for hundreds of victims, mainly in the civilian and generally defenceless population. Of course, you have reached such a level of political amoralism, which you do not even hesitate to do. The culmination of your cynicism is the statement by the Secretary of your parliamentary group, the SYRIZA, who said, since the war is there - that is, it did not say that, but that is - since the world is being killed, the children are being killed, we are doing our business. What can you say and confess? What do you say you're not ashamed? We know you're not ashamed. Ladies and gentlemen, in the debate before the public all these days, he has dominated - and today - what he said or did or failed to do or has the Minister, the Brigadier, the mediator, the ambassador. Activities of various agencies have been analysed. They've become, supposedly, revelations. It was stressed how advantageous this sale is in Saudi Arabia, and even in conditions of economic crisis for Greece. It is clear that the Government and Census are in agreement with this approach and are trying to deliberately slander that this is an act that is deliberate, conscious and also very subtle. Why don't they tell us that the country - a client is a state-killer for both its people and its surrounding people? It is the country that has been attacking since 2015, we repeat it in Yemen's territory, resulting in massacres, starvation, strengthening the jihadists of ISIS and Al-Qaida. That's the reality. With all this, it is more understandable to the Greek people because the geostrategic upgrading of Greece means only risk enhancement, direct involvement in wars, interventions and Greece, with the responsibility of SYRIZA - ANEL, which will only ultimately be paid by the Greek people and youth. Ladies and gentlemen, political responsibility for this crime is also there for Mr Kammenos, of course, as Minister of Defence and his co-pilot, Mr Tsipras - rather backwards it is, anyway, the same thing - in total in SYRIZA - ANEL. If there are criminal responsibilities, they must be investigated. Let the case be fully cleared. That's what we say. In order to conclude the case, it would certainly be helpful to provide confidential documents, which have been classified as such, and which relate directly or indirectly to this case. Why don't you tell the parties in detail? What do you have to fear? Did this whole story have to be made to say, even cowardly and reluctantly, that you will allow the Members of the Committee on Equipment to see the documents at issue? Ladies and gentlemen, a lot of discussion has taken place these days about these classified documents and whether or not Members should be informed about them. We sincerely say that we have not received a reply as to what exactly the reasons for imposing the confidentiality of these documents on the House and on the parties are. Further, what is exactly what the Greek people should not know? Because, as we speak, it is even funny to talk about confidentiality now, being inside NATO and the European Union, with Turkey in and a number of other countries. Especially on the issue of arms trafficking, there are too many people who know much and everything, and there are many people who are intervening, too, who win, those who are financing, as has revealing all history, the experience of all the previous situations and scandals. Eventually, only the Greek people remain in the dark. Documents on the sale of weapons in Saudi Arabia and may contribute to illustrating facts and responsibilities, cannot be concealed on the grounds of confidentiality, Mr Voutsi. We, as a JRC at the beginning of the day, have asked for the publicity and the minutes of the Committee on Equipment to be made public when discussing this matter, which is also classified as confidential. There is clearly the position, opposition of the JRC to this sale, as is the attitude of the other parties in anti-population and co-government. Ladies and gentlemen, let go of the ridiculous government-office-office-management. Your aim is to disorientate the Greek people and not, of course, to inform them about all the issues, as you are all saying. The case of selling or not selling ammunition in Saudi Arabia differs in any of the often - thickly revealed similar cases. They all have one common feature: the party as well as the personal involvement of government actors, in a spearhead of the sweat of the Greek people with businessmen respectively. A characteristic example is assumptions, as many as were revealed, where it is involved in takeovers and money laundering, for example the company ‘SIEMENS’. All of them belong to this category and are assumptions that their tentacles were and continue to be spread into a large number of public procurements, such as energy, telecommunications, shipbuilding, equipment, road marking and elsewhere. They are assumptions such as those for the construction of the submarines of the German ‘THYSSENKRUPP’, the supply and installation of the sinful system C4I of the ‘SAIC’ or the supply of other weapons systems by various suppliers. And who still knows what we haven't learned. The list is endless, so it doesn't take you to carve in here nor can one talk about Saudarabian Papers and the other answer, as Mr. Tsipras did, with Paradise, the Panama Papers and goes by saying. One is only doing this when one has a nest and seeks a political or legal triggering of scandals. If you want real transparency for all of this with which you are always playing on the back of our people, then nameize all the shares and securities of the public and their financial products, so that it is known who owns and what, go ahead with removing all the secrets (tax, banking, commercial), so that there can be control over, ban offshore, control on the import and export of funds, that is to say, the proposal for a regulation that we have tabled to you and that you are denying it. I would not say all this again because we have repeated these issues several times, but these are the issues, either of the 'SIEMENS' or of the Paradise Papers and all the rest of them, the Prime Minister put them in his speech, despite the fact that the Bureau and the President-in-Office started at noon said not to talk about other issues. But, after other issues have been spoken other than this, we must also address them. Of course, give us all the minutes we have told you, the so - called confidentiality, and so on. All other things, we say, are 'other words to be loved', to get away from one another, when one another, from the enormous responsibilities for the situation of the people and the country. In conclusion, we note that the revelations at times to engage in these arsenal of certain proto-classists of the parties that have been ruling and the involvement of politicians and entrepreneurs for money and redemption must not mislead or disorient the Greek people from the essence of the cases. The corruption uterus - we insist on this - is the system that today and the previous governments have faithfully served and continue, with the help of their policy and the majority of the House, to serve. The scandal with the Saudis and the mediator is all the time, it doesn't differ to the minimum, the policy that gives American Greek territory, the Souda base, allowing it to be turned into a headline of death for the peoples of the region and making our people target criminals. It is your policy that gives air to the American committees, supposedly experts, to roam around Greece by choosing, without giving you any reason, where to set up their battle bases, necessary for their next robbery. It is your policy that undermines the future of future generations, spending intact financial resources on weapons systems not to shield our country, but on order, to serve imperialistic operational plans from the United States, NATO, the European Union. This policy poses risks to the people and other peoples of the region, this policy will also lead to new wars, interventions, border changes, new waves of refugees. Beyond that, your policy today has given air to the sails of employers' arbitrariness, which is run by state repression to anyone who claims to be self-evident, such as in the last few months or re-appointment. What happened, for example, yesterday in Iannina is a challenge, we need to get a mass response. Under a mandate from the employer of MARKET IN, who is the successor of the supermarket "KARYPIDI", two made redundant for months, both of which were unpaid, a mother of three children and another who worked for many years in this job, were dragged to the police station, in the process of the self-defense, because the previous day they were complaining about their rights. In addition, the police with a real manhunt were looking for their homes and the rest of the workers and other trade unions of the Private Staff Association, while a week ago you ran the police station the president of the Workshop Centre of Ioannina. These are a sign of how you perceive (State-Government - Entrepreneurship) labour struggles, trade union freedoms, and what you have agreed in front of the new law on strike and pleading trade union activity. It is a whole, all that, politics, it is not one here and the other there or different things, but it must find our people, workers, youths united fighters toward you. A first answer, of course, must be the mass involvement of all workers in the pan-laboratory, pan-Hellenic strike announced today and officially on December 14th.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u440	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the "ELEIGERIOS VENIZELOS", twenty-four students and students and two educational attendants from the General School of Mousakio Karditsas. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The President will now take the floor, Mr Leventis, then President Theodorakis and then, in turn, the Parliamentary Representatives of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, the Independent Greeks, and finally on behalf of the Independent MPs, Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras. This will close the cycle and then there may be some one-minute locations. The debate will be closed with the speech of the Minister, Mr Kammenos, who will incorporate secondary and tritology. Please, Mr. Leventis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u441	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of today's debate is to see nothing but the attempted exacerbation and polarisation of recent times, some things have been mentioned by everyone. First of all, this debate was advertised as the great day of the revelations. At least in this respect society must have been disappointed, because things have mostly been mentioned on the channels. But the attempted acidification is not just here, in Parliament, in the way in which the debates are being held. It's on the channels everywhere, and on the ERT. One of the SYRIZA's and one of the New Democracy's and the panel's 90% in all the discussions is thus concluded. In other words, the two parties occupy 90% - perhaps more - of television time. Of course, they're putting the PASOK on now. It's the rising power. We'll see. I wish them, but we'll see. We have to see everything. Because there are some polls that take them from 6% to 12% and they say about a new PASOK. I don't see a new PASOK. I see the old disguises. If they can grow up, it's good. We will then see them with what they will do. The purpose of the discussions is, therefore, polarization and acidification. That's what they do. It is, of course, proven to be the result in Greece. At least until now, in the forty years PASOK and the New Democracy, it has had a wonderful result in favour of two-partyism. Now PASOK is SYRIZA, of course. That's PASOK's big problem. She hopes from 48% that went to 4% will go up again. I have told them that in history there is no such precedent, a party that was up and up again. If they find in the history of Greece or Turkey or Italy or any state party that was up, 48% and went back to 4%, then I apologize. So they're looking for the impossible. When the people walk away from you, because, somehow, you disappointed him, it's hard to take him back. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr DIMITRIOS KAMMEOS]] I have asked for many years now, ladies and gentlemen, when there is a public supply or a sale - because this transaction is also - to be a prosecutor for more than EUR 1 million. To be defined by drawing by the prosecuting officer, to be present in the proceedings. What's wrong with that? We would have escaped from the Chohatzopoulos, the Papantoniou and so on. We'd have escaped everyone. Why don't we do that? There is this in the big conventions. Why would Mr. Kammenos try to sell the material himself? If he sold it, would today's debate take place? I don't think so. It would be the D.A. who would guarantee the proceedings. It's not a loss of power for the D.A. to be present. It's a guarantee of transparency. If someone thinks they're losing power, when there's a prosecutor's eye, they're wrong. The New Democracy threatened for special courts. He said there would be elections and 'we'll take you back then, which we'll have the majority.' Mr Mitsotakis clearly said so, and I think others have said so. So here there are special court threats. I've explained it to Mr. Tsipras for two years. Where there is a commission of more than EUR 1 million, he should ask the head of the prosecutor's office to appoint a current prosecutor in the proceedings. Why didn't he do it to get away with it? So neither Tsipras nor Kammenos will escape, nor will those who sell material, generally those who trade for public money. I say this in person. Consider it seriously, or they'll be afraid to take over ministers here. They'll be afraid to sign. I have asked the polls to have an independent authority. For two years the Prime Minister has said yes to me, it must be an independent authority, before the polling company gives SKAI the answers, or ERT or the newspaper, to check the finding of the investigations by the independent authority. First, the results should be submitted there and within a quarter, but after the scientists of the independent polling authority have checked them. Why is Mr Tsipras - whom the polls are now at his expense - not taking a clearance in this area? It will not be possible to question the outcome of the polls. It's very simple. No one could speak. Why did Tsipras say yes to me and then he doesn't? He said yes to me, ladies and gentlemen! What's going on and he doesn't? Doesn't it interest him? Or does he know that the New Democracy will then be the one trying to shoot it, so it will help him to frustrate the polls and not to be guaranteed? Because I've heard that it doesn't suit us to clean up the space, because we might at this time not be serviceable, but tomorrow we'll be the ones serving us from this chaos. I saw that Ruvikon and today he went to the district to get bored. What's going on? Where's the minister? The minister who said they had to be arrested. Mr. Voutsis was of the opinion that they were his friends and they shouldn't have been arrested when they were arrested in here. Where's Mr. Toscas? Should we see it's Minister or is he hiding? When the services show up, there's no success coming out. You know, the police have hits where cell phones are coming in, about drugs being sent to us by foreigners, etc., but in anarchy there's an absolute mess. So we've got hits where the NSA bags give us information. There we have successes, where we get information from outside, but the Prefecture of Athens cannot protect it. I am told by some “don’t talk about Ruvikon”, because they will come to you too.” You know that? They find me policemen in the hallways and they say, "Don't talk." Do you hear that? A party is threatened by them. They say to me 'less than with them'. He has the duty of the Minister to find them and send them to justice, otherwise he has the full responsibility of what these gentlemen will do and will do much more. On the subject of Skopje, Mr Voutsi said on the other hand: 'You are being shortened'. You don't want to talk about Skopje. There is official Greek acceptance on the website of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Greece by the word "Macedonia", "Nova Macedonia". What is the government's official position? Because they say they're going to start consultations. When you consult yourself, you propose the name 'Macedonia', what are you going to collect? The motto "Macedonia" will be collected. That's how I feel. So, I don't understand why don't we take this down? Is there a stubborn stubbornness of Tsipras, a stubborn stubbornness against Macedonia? In fact, Kammenos's view is that the name should not be given. So they have no coherence in this matter. They have no cohesion. The Kammeni position is that the name should not be given, he says. I don't know if it will be kept to the end, because you said, Mr. Kammene, that you will defend it and throw the government away - so you said - and I think you didn't throw it for the Church, that the gender identity was passed at fifteen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u442	We didn't vote for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u443	Yeah, but the government's backing her up for passing the gender identity at fifteen. You may not have voted yourself, one of your Members voted for you. You may have voted 'no' for the others, but you support a government that passed the gender change at fifteen, Mr. Cammenene.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u444	Do we have to drop the government?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u445	I don't know what we're gonna do. Then speak as long as you want. In any case, I want to know what Greece's negotiating position on the Skopje issue is. Shall we give the name? The deceased Mitsotakis said we should give it to ten years. Did he say that? I don't know. Maybe we blamed him.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u446	Is that Mitsotakis again?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u447	Did he deny it? Why don't you officially deny it, though?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u448	We've officially disproved it...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u449	Because the New Democracy does not ask, you are a bigger party than the Centro Association, to download "Nova". You haven't seen...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u450	What is on the Foreign Ministry's website is Bucharest's decision, Mr President. Read before we start to...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u451	In 2006, where was your government?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u452	In 2006.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u453	Yes, sir. The government of Costa Karamanlis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u454	Yes, the government of Karamanlis Costa.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u455	Yes, you have a civil war, I know. Well, listen, I was in a conversation somewhere and told me a New Democracy official: "We are trying and liberal economic policy to have the simple society to support." This is the New Democracy party, loves capital and industrialists, but it also supports workers. That's how the New Democracy says. Mr. Tsipras says he's left, so he's a party of the poor, but he went and got a prize in France from the zapluts and the big industrialists. And it is called 'bravo' by the various Brussels people. So what do we got? We have two parties, one of which is essentially in favour of capital - the New Democracy - but he loves the worker very much. And we have Tsipras, who loves the worker very much, but he gets prizes for his openings for capital. What's the truth? The truth here is that the Greek people are trapped. The capitalists are running permanently, there is no doubt about it, and the old worker who had a dream of getting 700 euros, now has a dream of getting 500 euros and soon will have a dream of taking 300 euros. When SYRIZA says it reduces unemployment, he means with the 300 euros, ladies and gentlemen. This reduces unemployment. The Greek people therefore lie between the Dog and Harybdis. It's between what teeth he'll be eaten. That's what I feel. For what is Samaras different, and now Mitsotakis, from Tsipras? Mitsotakis says he's going to take down 2% of the surplus. How? Do you have the foreigner's permission? Are you a little more dude? You're smarter than Tsipras, and you're gonna get it down to 2%? With what? He says he'll reduce taxes. How will you reduce them, gentlemen? In what way? Will you bring investments? What investments did you bring to the two-year Samaras? What investments did you bring? And pins are imported. Bicycles import the country and pins.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u456	The ones that Tsipras opens.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u457	Don't, Mr. Lightla. Let go! You have nothing but blaming me on the different channels. This is your mission, even though I was your father's friend. It's okay. You have to show that you are king's king. This is your mission. About the Bonama, I'd like to say you're committing a crime. You did it familyly. The whole family, that is to say the guests, enter and the guards, so that the criteria cannot be met, even half of the three million four hundred thousand you have identified. You'll see at the end how many of them will take a boot. I'm not half the people, I'm making the prediction, and we're stumbling. In addition, you also made the statement, to state it, while the bonus was directly entered into the beneficiary's account. Now he has to file an application. It must be officially part of the poorhouse, the citizen must be registered in the poor-house register, in order to get 200 euros or 300 euros. There are discussions between the taxpayers who are entitled and who are not entitled. There's been more discussions than we've been paying for income tax. And I say: 'Well, the ones here who have been talking for hours and have been analyzing for hours in the Ear, in one and the other, who deserve a bonus, what will each get?'. It says between 200 euros and 900 euros. We consume almost equivalent television time to the time when tax declarations are submitted. That's where I really get disgusting about the media. On gender change, ladies and gentlemen, I want to tell you something. [[Noise in the Chamber]] I hear some screams. Do you think he swallows what you're doing easily? Fifteen-year-old children will decide for their future and the Church is not entitled to speak either. The Church must feed, replace the state, make a thousand sacrifices, but speak is not entitled. That is what Mr Tsipras has done: 15-year-old children to decide! I state publicly that what has been done is neither honest nor the way it has been voted. There was a majority, a party of the government majority did not vote, another party came and voted and everything was based on the absent. If he was one, two Members still present, he wouldn't get through this. That's how the law passed. So I declare that the way this law has passed is alchemy. The Church, Mr. Vica, doesn't want to get involved. But the Church has a right to an opinion, because it's a majority. You were a majority with a collapsing law. You took fifty bonus seats to become a majority, while the Church is a majority on its own, Mr. Vitsa. The Church didn't get a bonus. Do you hear that? You hear that, 'cause I see you guys where...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u458	As much as you're trying to...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u459	Please, we have exceeded time, Mr President. Don't open a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u460	The Church didn't get bonuses. Tsipras to be here, got bonuses, ladies and gentlemen! Well, we're all gonna fix this, not just the Centro Association. We'll all rectify it and New Democracy and you, because within you know that a whim you've made, you've allegedly detested the Church, but you're going there to get votes. That's not a nice thing. I want to say one last thing. On 4 December the Centro Association will give the answer to many things at the CARAVEL Hotel at 19: 00' in the afternoon. Because the media sabotages us from the House, gentlemen, and this is a sign of how well the media are working, which I told you you and the Syrians are flooding by 90%. And if I lie, let the people hear me judge. Well, on Monday December 4th at 19:00 in the afternoon I'll talk to the hotel 'CARAVEL'. And I'll talk, because I have to answer a lot of people, some who from 6% go to polls, some people who permanently have the majority in polls.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u461	Mr President, please don't go out any longer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u462	And most of all on Monday, December 4th, I'll talk. It will not be long enough for the people to speak at some point and we will see in the Chamber how many people have 30%, how many have 5%, how many have 20%.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u463	Thank you very much Mr Leventis, the President of the Centro Association. The President of the Potamian Parliamentary Group, Mr Theodorakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u464	I'll start with a mathematical riddle. Three hundred thousand missiles do 66 million. The two thousand Mr. Papadopoulos would take with Mr. Kammenos's permission without the Saudis having asked for them, how much are they doing? Watch out, 'cause maybe here's the secret to the case. The weapons, as the military say, and the drugs have two prices, the normal - official and the price on the black market. The morphine in the pharmacies is cheap. But on the black market her price is on fire. The same goes for the missiles. There are official prices and prices on the black market. And the three hundred thousand missiles that we would do for 66 million, on the black market someone or some of them would take 200 million. That's how the middlemen come up, and that's why the middlemen need it. This is how smugglers, misadversaries and corrupt powers win. So there are relentless questions in this case. Where would the two hundred thousand missiles go, and what pockets and what black funds and what offshore would the money end up? I grieve, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA - and I address those who are politically opposed, but I do not think that they are involved in black stories and black jobs - because you are constantly beating your head to Mr Kammenos. Fear not to worry about him. And because it's hard for you to cover him in this case too, you've now discovered some of you Yemeni children, which you hadn't talked about when the matter had come to Parliament. But you obviously want a story about TV windows to ask you about hatred - because that's why people ask, that's why journalists ask - and you say, 'we don't approve the bombing of civilians'. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, there is a constant catastrophe. We were delusional, but we didn't lie. We lied, but we didn't steal. And now you're suggesting that someone else is stealing, but not us. Where's that gonna stop? How much longer will you cover the dangerous behaviour of the Minister of Defense in small, large and national? So I challenge you to give me an answer. I'm just leaving this thing a little bit. I challenge you to tell me, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, do you accept Mr Kammenos's views on Skopje? On October 26th, he said to Thessaloniki that "This Excellency", I, Kammenos, do not accept in any way including the name "Macedonia" or his derivative in the name of this Slavic nation. Is that the government's view? You dare answer! You're answering for everything. Is that the government's view? Is that SYRIZA's view? Ladies and gentlemen, you must make a decision. The far right as you wash it or maybe as much as you rinse it, it'll stay right. And in the last few days you have shown that you are incapable of defending the basic national interests. Look out! Mr. Kammens in 2015 at a demonstration of blackmail threatened Europe - remember them! - that immigrant waves without papers, including extremist elements, will invade via Turkey into the heart of the West. Everyone then looked suspiciously towards our country and this suspicious look has not stopped. They began to keep records, to harden controls and today Greeks are treated in European capitals as third-world visitors. Two hours' waiting at Berlin airport - you will see the reports - four, five different checks. And I'm not just talking about tourists. I'm even talking about business people, business travelers. The Greeks are afflicted, offended, because of your unprecedented inability. And why - to get back to our subject - only ten years in prison? Why this kind of leniency? Ten years in prison for classified documents?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u465	Forty!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u466	Nixon, as Tasos Mandravelis reminded us yesterday in an article, had ordered the murder of the journalist who leaked national secrets in the notorious Watergate case. Why would you just stay in ten years? In order to overcome this case, ladies and gentlemen, I will just say one sentence: national is the truth, and this is what the House must defend to the end. And you should understand, gentlemen of the government, that unfortunately the audience is not just your "split" friends. It is all Greece, it is all Europe, to which you will have to adapt at some point. In 2015 to the great "Evras" Tsipras - Kammenos, when the common photos were everywhere in your offices, you tolerated everything. It was when all the other politicians of the political world were "dolesque" and "German giraffes". Mr Kammenos has taken a step further: 'We will not make a policy on four. We will not make visas." You've tolerated this behavior. And as you rarely find such a noble and moderate Minister, in 2016 you upgraded him to quasi-President of the Government and Minister of Religious Affairs. He sent Mr. Friend from the Ministry and in the presence of Mr. Tsipras and the Archbishop he guaranteed - where? - at the far right audience that nothing will change the books of Religiouss. And you just threw your head. As for this year, you remember them, you know, we don't have to tell ourselves: isovitas, roulettes, constant lies in the House, funny things. By the way, I wanted to ask the Minister this: Today he said that he asked for his phone to be removed on a case that he considered to be important. So long as everyone on the right asked him from the centre, from the centre, from everywhere, to ask - I am talking about the period of talks with the isovite - the lifting of confidentiality, why didn't he? Why didn't he do it in this serious case that dealt with the Greek people so much and he says now that 'a phone number that came home and I took it and I did it...'? [[Applause]] I have to tell you clearly, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Kammenos's involvement in the government continues to provoke society and I think he continues to provoke disobedience throughout Europe. Because Mr Kammenos represents the delayed anti-European conspiracy forces. Nationalistism, when it comes to the front of the government, comes under the responsibility of Mr. Tsipras. It doesn't come under the responsibility of Mr. Kammenos. So co-responsibility for mistakes, omissions and all these actions, which are not so obvious that they are just mistakes, but they are more than that, is the Prime Minister of the country himself, Mr Tsipras. As far as the patriots are concerned, on the part of the Minister of National Defence, I would like to paraphrase a historical phrase by Dr. Johnson:'patriotism is often the last refuge of fraudsters'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u467	Thank you very much Mr Theodorakis. Mr. Voridis, you have no more speaking time. Your president will cover you. The President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Mitsotakis, has asked for the floor on his denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u468	Ladies and gentlemen, if some of us have come with questions in this debate today, I must tell you that we are leaving with certainty. We leave with the absolute certainty of Mr. Tsipras' full identity with Mr. Kammenos. Mr. Tsipras, I've seen you in many parliamentary disputes. You actually gave me the impression that you were doing chores today. You were not very pleased with this debate. You were clearly uncomfortable with things you were saying, which you did not know and very well, you suspected in a series of contradictions. I'll come to these later. But in the face of the danger of losing the chair, you have defended, even with an enthusiasm, Mr. Kammenos. I told you, moreover, that you had no choice. But today, officially now and after your position, everyone has come to the conclusion that what we called the Kammenos scandal is a Tsipra - Kammenos scandal. That is what your presence has confirmed here today. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And, of course, I am surprised that you did not answer any of the questions that I and the other Members of Parliament have asked you. So I will repeat them if you want to become a little more specific in the second. The first and most important question is why in an inter-national agreement there is a need for mediators. You accepted, at the edge of your speech, by referring to someone Mr Sfakianakis - who I do not know what his role is, but you mentioned him as another mediator - that Mr Papadopoulos was a mediator. Yeah, you're right. Indeed, Mr. Papadopoulos was a mediator. Let's say it open and say it yourself. He was a middleman. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Only here, Mr. Tsipras, you know a little problem. And the little problem is: It is the article 9 of Law 3978/2011. What's he saying? So let me read it to you so that you and your Minister can understand it. "It shall be prohibited for economic operators or legal representatives involved in the procedures..." - be aware, in the procedures - "...conclusion and performance of procurement contracts, services or works in the defence sector to have and use any intermediary, intermediary or agent in the procurement and performance process." That is what the law that we voted on in 2011 in the House says. And why did we do that, Mr. Tsipras? Why was that law passed? I told you before, but for some reason you didn't want to follow up on my argument. Because, indeed, we have been injured as a country and we have paid a lot of money as taxpayers for brokerage cases in other dark times. As I told you, some people involved in these cases are in prison. That's why this law was passed. It was voted to finish, Mr Tsipras, since it was a good thing with the middlemen. But you, and your Minister, have chosen to bring them back, not from the back door, from the front door, and not even to inform the committee responsible of their own role, insisting that an 'government to goverse' agreement is concluded here. You were warned, Mr Tsipras, about the role of Mr Papadopoulos. Your ambassador had notified you. And since you like to read classified and classified telegrams, do you want to bother reading the telegram sent by our ambassador at the National Representation at the end of August 2017, just before the official Saudi mission to Greece? I must say here, Mr President, that something very strange is happening. The Prime Minister is allowed to read and disclose the content of secret telegrams, but it is forbidden for Members to have access to the same material. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It's called a cover-up, it's called a collapsing whatever you say. But the truth, we'll find out. Mr Tsipras and Mr Voutsi, do not hide behind these procedures. It's a disgrace to what you're doing! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] If, then, you have the kindness, Mr Tsipras, read us this telegram, and tell us whether the ambassador, just before the Saudi official mission, has included Mr Papadopoulos in the official mission, and whether Mr Papadopoulos - who otherwise is the official representative of the Saudis - is taking part in this surreal drama, which took place at the Ministry of National Defence. He commanded the Minister of National Defence to arrest the Brigadier, who revealed the role of the mediator. That's what happened! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Shame on you! Armed Forces officials did their job and you come, Mr. Kammene, ask for their arrest and recruit the military prosecutor only because he may have broken a job, broken a business! So, Mr Tsipras, what did Mr. Ambassador say on this telegram and, in any case, what is the official validation that this mediator had - at least you confessed to it at last - from Saudi Arabia? Mr. Cammene, you'll tell Mr. Tsipras later. I know he's not a deep acquaintance of the case. But just give it some trouble to hear what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u469	Is that you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u470	I have unfortunately had to find out, Mr Tsipras, because this is a major issue here and, as you can see, this is a very serious matter for a lot of people. Where's the money? Why are you smiling? Where's the money? If it was really legal, where's the money? Show me the money! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Where are the 66 million people who had to take the Greek State and for whom I would remind you that we consented when the matter came to the committee responsible? Like Mr Cammene, we have consented to all legitimate sales of military material, provided, of course, that legality is respected, except that you have not exactly respected the legality. One big question arises here: will this agreement be implemented? Tell me, yes or no? If the agreement is implemented, then we too will expect to see where the money is. To put at least the money in the cash register. However, if the agreement for any reason breaks down, because you want to put an intermediary in the middle for your own reasons, then there is a major issue, because they are missing from the fund of EUR 66 million and the money is a lot. On your excitement and referring to stories of the 1980s...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u471	They're gone, you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u472	I don't know. You tell me. I've not seen any money so far. In your enthusiasm you have involved something 67 million, which was drachmas at the time, you guys messed up with euros, but all right, I give you the alibi!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u473	It's dollars.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u474	Please, colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u475	You have not answered me, Mr Tsipras, and the last question I raised. For whom, finally, smile, Mr. Kammene, does Mr. Papadopoulos work? What is Mr. Papadopoulos? Is he just a middleman? Is he a transporter? Does he have a transport company? His job was to load the ammunition on a ship and take it to Saudi Arabia? Why, Mr. Cammene, did you order Mr. Papadopoulos or did you consent to do business with the NSAs? Will you answer all these questions? I filed the paperwork as well. Will you answer all these questions, Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Cammene? Because here Mr Papadopoulos's role is extremely suspicious. I close because I imagine that the Prime Minister will want at least this time to give some answers to a number of very specific questions. I'll tell you two things at the end of my dentistry. First of all, Mr Tsipras, this story is not over here. It is not the end here, not only because it is obviously a posteriori that will investigate this case, but also because there are parliamentary control tools, which will be completely exhausted to find out exactly what has happened. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] I have a proposal for you, and I think we could possibly agree here and lead this debate to some sort of cleansing. Well, tomorrow, as far as I know, there is a meeting of the Arming Commission. Why do you not ask, Mr Kammene, that Mr Papadakis, the Brigadier General, be brought to the Committee on Arms in closed session? If we find him, Mr. Sfakianakis, tell us what his role is, if there were other middlemen, we can finally find out what role he has, since things are getting involved here, according to your own words. He'll show up, and we'll find out who Mr. Sfakianakis is. Don't think nothing will be hidden. Is it a good idea to tell Mr. Rubipapi to come? Mr. Rubatis is working for you. He's a S.H.I.E.L.D. official. Let Mr Rubatis tell us - because, as far as I know, it is state services that have requested the participation of the NSA throughout this case - can it give us some enlightenment about Mr Papadopoulos' real role. Mr Tsipras, I would not say that if your representative had not made progress once again in a communication, which is characterised by the usual extremely aggressive style of people who clearly have something to hide. I was described by Mr. Janakopoulos as a coward. I'm returning the characterization. You're cowardly, because you're coming over here once more and you're swinging our fingers when you have your nest dirty. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You are a coward because you do not, Mr Tsipras, have the courage once to recognise your own, personal responsibilities for a case that - you have no doubt - will be completely investigated. With regard to your threat with the finger proposed to have a debate on tax evasion for offshore, we will be here, Mr Tsipras, talking about everything, and we will also discuss 'SIEMENS' again. Of course, we must talk again about SIEMENS and explain to us why the SIEMENS plant was closed and two hundred people were made redundant and lost their jobs. Let us also talk about Paradise Papers, I have no difficulty at all, but we will also talk about the relationship between Mr Pappas and Mr Artemios, the King of offshore companies. We will also talk about the relationships of the newspaper "AGE" with offshore companies, finally reveal who is behind the famous offshore of the newspaper "THEI". Because we have nothing to fear, Mr Tsipras, and seventeen hours and twenty-seven as many as you want to talk about these issues, but today you will apologise for a scandal, which was launched as a Kammenos scandal and along the way became a Tsipras - Kammenos scandal.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u476	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, 50 students and students and four educational sessions from the General School of Giannoulis Larissa. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras has the floor for his denunciation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u477	I shall be very brief, Mr President, because I have indeed been anxious to see whether the Chief of Staff will take the floor again, even late, to give an answer to the revelations I have made. Instead of a substantial response, he did a psychography of my presence here at this Step and told me that I didn't have that much enthusiasm and that I did chores. Imagine, I had an enthusiasm for what would happen. So he told us neither much nor much more and the same again. [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] Like Mrs. Gennimata's places, right after I was present at this step, as if she hadn't heard, it was to read the written text that she had made before. But the overall debate also moved on to the well-known and prepared. However, from this procedure, Mr Mitsotakis, one thing has emerged. It has been shown that for the last 15 days you and the media that have supported you have made a construction. Why? In order to get the other issues to which you have told us and your great willingness to discuss them - I am very pleased - and to show what? That there is a great scandal, and you told us today that the money is missing, that is, that the Greek State was damaged. He had the money, and the Greek State lost it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u478	He didn't take it. Will he take it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u479	Have a seat now. And all this on the basis of a case, which you have reiterated in your speech, namely that the official authorised by the authorities of that friendly State of Saudi Arabia is not official and officially authorised, but mediated. But when I revealed the special manipulation of telegrams from the ambassador and the embassy on the arguments, which you have supported for fifteen days now all this specula and muddy, you have come here to my great curiosity to say that there are more special handling that you know about and the Prime Minister doesn't know about. Special handling that you know and the Prime Minister doesn't know about!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u480	I didn't talk about special handling. I'm asking.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u481	Oh, you're asking! Mr. Mitsotakis, do you really think that by using personnel of the Diplomatic Body or of the Armed Forces, creating a parastate inside the state, you will be able to create a crack and challenge the moral integrity of this government?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u482	Are you afraid of something?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u483	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u484	I'll tell you now. The nerve is when you lift the sword and bays in order to change the agenda. Cowardice is when I ask you to have a debate in my presence, to have your representatives in the Conference of Presidents say that the debate should not be postponed. This is cowardice and courage, Mr. Mitsotakis. But because, Mr Mitsotakis, you have a perversion, you are coming back to the crime scene, so you have come back in, I would like to ask you the same question. Mr. Sfakianakis, whom you present...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u485	What's that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u486	What's that? It's the one, Mr. Loverdos, who made fun of various special handlings, in these special handling I have here on the Ambassador's side...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u487	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal matters afterwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u488	...it turned out to be the source of the embassy, according to which the whole story was erected.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u489	So the ambassador didn't do his job well?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u490	So, ladies and gentlemen, New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis are working for specific intermediates, and we are concluding agreements which benefit the Greek State with the officially authorised representatives of a friendly country. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Instead of apologizing for the revealing of this preparation you have set up for fifteen days, you have the courage to want to take the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u491	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u492	With regard to Mr Mitsotakis, your very courageous wish to discuss both SIEMENS and offshore, do not rush. We will also discuss "SIEMENS", which will pursue you throughout your political career, and for offshore we will also discuss what the Vice-President of your party said a few days ago, that it is absolutely legitimate and moral to tax on tax havens those who want to avoid high taxation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u493	And for your own ministers who have the money outside, are we going to talk about it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u494	We'll talk about everything, Mr. Mitsotakis. We're not going to leave anything unanswered.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u495	Please don't react. Quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u496	You represent interests. You're trying to poison the country's political life without proof. Did you set up a ward of fifteen days now, trying to prove things that are not proved, that what? That Kammenos as Minister of National Defence has attempted to negotiate with the official and authenticity certificate licensed Saudi Arabia in order to get a higher price, while you wanted the Greek Government to negotiate with another intermediary, who very much represents me Saudi Arabia, but is Greek in order to get a lower price. But the greatest shame in what you've done, you know what it is? I'll repeat it once again. It is that in your attempt to create opposition speech, you involve the Diplomatic Body and the Armed Forces of the place, Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u497	You hung them in the handkerchiefs.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u498	And this burden and this responsibility towards the country and the Greek people will follow you all the way. Good night, Mr. Mitsotakis!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u499	On behalf of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Mr Christos Hadjisavvas...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u500	Mr President, personal speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u501	Mr. Loverdos, there's no question of asking why.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u502	I am asking for the floor on staff for what the Prime Minister said, that I have moved special handling as a feat.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u503	What the Prime Minister used was not filed...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u504	He said personal things about me. I want the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u505	He never said personal things about you. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u506	He said it. I want the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u507	No, you can't take the floor. Mr. Hajisavvas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u508	I'm waiting for my colleague to finish, then.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u509	Please very much, Mr. Loverdos. Nobody's touched you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u510	It affects me in a clear way, and I want the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u511	But no one's touched you. Please! It's been so much since the morning and lasting and more. Mr. Hadjisavvas has the floor, then Mr. Papachristopoulos, then Mr. Karras.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u512	I will speak, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u513	Wait. These gentlemen haven't spoken at all. At the end of the seven speakers, a minute has been Mr Tassoulus who was the original speaker and then others have one or a half minutes to say something before the Minister closes. Alas, we've said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u514	We didn't say anything, we'll talk at the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u515	Mr. Voridis, you, too, for the fourth time. You have the privilege of courtesy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u516	Mr President, I have not taken my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u517	No dentistry. You've got a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u518	One and a half. It's fine one and a half.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u519	Mr. Georgiadis, we've been through this. I said it before. You're not listening. For God's sake, we won't fight about this. There are other things we've already done. Mr. Hajisavva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u520	Mr President, starting with my speech on this matter, I would like a clarification from the Minister of National Defence, Mr Kammenos. Mr. Kammene, you mentioned some point of the reason that you are not like the previous government, which, by telephone calls, interfered with the role of justice. What exactly are you talking about, Minister? Is this the case of the Golden Dawn MPs? It will be good, if you will, to clarify it to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u521	Have I said such a thing?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u522	You said you weren't like the previous government, which was calling. That's what you'll answer. Either way, I don't know who was the right leg of Chohatzopoulou, but I know very well that this government, which works against the Greek people, is you, Mr. Kammene, the 'right foot', although you now have few percentages in Greek society. You have 51% of the responsibility for what this government does with your support. A government that intercepted the Greek people's vote, prepared to tear up memorials and saw where it ended. It turns out, once again, that the mice and theft of armaments continue properly. You belong to the same climax that existed with the New Democracy and the PASOK. Together you voted to sell the military weapon New Democracy and the PASOK. Now, for the clarifications you say there were no, we'll see what happens. In any case, it's all safe. First you destroyed the Greek Weapons Industry and now you want proceeds from arms sales. It's safe, as I said, for the media only. SYRIZA and ANEL in their own media will play that they won a festive victory. The New Democracy will also play it celebratingly in its own. What's the result of this? Is something coming up? Is anyone going to justice? Is the deal going to continue? The morality of the subject will be seen below. About selling now and the middleman, you wanted to do a job with Papadopoulos at all. Good. But we read in dozens of articles that it is a company with zero turnover or minimally - it does nothing else, it only waited for it to work - and that it has been convicted of other cases. In the local community of Kilkis, the truth is that if you asked them about this industry, you would be told that it has been closed long ago. Nothing seems to work, nothing happens. Sounds like a 10%. I don't know what that is. You'll answer us. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] It comes out, supposedly, a document justifying everything and referring to NK-82 air bombs, which have nothing to do with the question that is for a hundred thousand hundred-five-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-th of them. But what's this? What are you trying to achieve with this sale? Of course, we're not talking about selling for defence purposes. You know there's a war right now. You feed this war and the genocide that's happening. But in response, we only accept airplanes, as we have also accepted, in response to the case of the "Rubicon" invasion in the Pentagon, that there were no arrests because the military cannot make arrests. Of course the Army can't. The military is responsible for the army's outside camp performance, image and discipline of the army. Inside is the camp guard, armed and can go to the end, do whatever it takes to arrest those who are invaders. You are also giving orders to arrest military officers, and the military prosecutor had to intervene in any such procedure. Then you collected it, but you went out and said "I ordered it to be arrested". As far as the material for the 100-millimeter bombs is concerned, the two thousand missiles are not clear where they would go, but even if we assume that they will eventually go to Saudi Arabia, they are not smart bombs with surgical accuracy. They're artillery missiles. They've got huge side losses. Up to 80% are civilians dead right now in Yemen from bombing and 50% of these are children. The lifetime of these missiles was short, so they'll go for immediate use. They won't go for a stack in a country that'll use them defensively if someone attacks. For war, they go to use aggressively. The morality of SYRIZA - ANEL, therefore, allows these sales to be made. How much does the entire parliamentary system cost here, the political system today, the lives of civilians and thousands of children in Yemen? Sixty-six million euros? What, then, did some SYRIZA Members say about the morality of the sale of martial material? And Mr. Friend and Mr. Sakis Papadopoulos have expressed some questions. But what did Mr. Tsipras say about Yemen and about the genocide of thousands of victims? Don't you remember that? On the one hand, you are posing as humanists, hosting millions of refugees here and providing millions of euros to NGOs and hot spots and, on the other, selling bombs to the wards and creating refugees and victims. In addition, various walks are made by Mr. Kammenos and Mr. Kotzias in Brazil and elsewhere. I don't know how much that costs. It would be nice to know about these trips as well. It was heard that secret documents were released - Mr. Loverdos was accused of this - moving from an agent who says it is the NDP, but it is the MIT. Mr. Burnedo says that somewhere online. Mr. Georgiadis also asked who he was. Okay, is Kammenos kidding us now? The person who says that he is an agent of the NDP and you are now saying that he is Turkish, a year and a half ago he has sent to Parliament's groups and MPs - has also sent the President of Parliament and to the heads of the parties - a ton of classified material that, if we took it, would come to blame us. On July 12, 2016, however, two Members of the Golden Dawn – one was me, because of a consortium I wanted to clarify this issue - we ask three ministries - Ministry of Justice and Transparency, Ministry of Interior and Ministry of National Defence - the following: "Subscribeing an operative of the NSA, persecuted by INTERPOL, denounces ministers for violation of duty". It says in it there seems to be a problem in the National Intelligence Office, because there are complaints with certain classified documents. There is a question. He became a European arrest warrant and was issued by the prosecutor Georgios Ktistakis. On 12 July 2016, the question was raised. Within a few days, the two cooperative ministries declared unauthorized. Mr. Kammenos has so far not come to answer who this gentleman is. I will put a timely question and I will ask for it to be clear who is who claims to be an PPE, while it is the Turks after all. Why doesn't he tell us? Why does Parliament not protect this whole process?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u523	Mr. Comrade, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u524	I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. So this one has also sent things that Mrs. Rachel Makary said you used them to hit the then domicile memorial government. Then you forgot. He says he has even asked your MEP, Mr Papadimoulis, and you are coming today to say that you knew him and you are after him. If you want to clean up both on equipment and on the loots and on the stealing, remove this shameful law on the responsibility of Ministers and send to prison anyone who has stolen, whoever is stealing and whoever is stealing right now, who is not clear what is going on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u525	Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, Mr Papachristopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u526	Mr President, I have asked for the floor on personal grounds after the colleague of the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u527	You asked for him before. The president has founded it. Please, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u528	Mr President, I have been very clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u529	Respect all colleagues who respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u530	Mr President, the Prime Minister said that I made a point of making the secret documents of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs available and generally classified.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u531	The issue has been resolved, Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u532	Mr. President, I'm troubled by this...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u533	The matter has been overdue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u534	Please! I want the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u535	Please, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u536	I'm the one who's here, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u537	I'm preside over. You don't preside, though. How to do it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u538	It's about you, too, what I'm going to say now. I invoke your well-being. Leave me a minute. It is not possible to remove the floor for a minute. Mr Colleague, Mr. Parliamentary Representative, I apologise.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u539	Come on, we've had a lot of time. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u540	It's the president who arranges. I'm not taking care of it, Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u541	Last Monday, when we discussed the social dividend, you were President, and that comes from the Minutes. I have taken the floor, Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, and I have said that I have some classified documents and I ask you to tell me whether the procedure that we are following during parliamentary scrutiny is utility or not. You were presiding.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u542	It wasn't me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u543	It was you. I have a copy of the minutes. The day passes and the next day comes and the Bureau doesn't answer me. I take the floor and say, 'Since the Bureau has not answered me, I have three classified documents and I take them into account for reading, not for publicity.' Still what's happening.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u544	It's been a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u545	Listen, Mr President, one minute has passed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u546	What can I hear? I'm not here to just listen to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u547	The President of the Democratic Association today asks the President of the Potamio, Mr Theodorakis, for these documents to be read by everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u548	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u549	You come here and let the Prime Minister give classified documents and speak. We've got two yards and two stations. Ours won't allow them. That's not a democracy. We gave it to the public, Mr President. The two parties have now made all these three documents public. Now the citizens will know what the processions they want to hide are. Can I tell you one more thing? As much as you are trying here to play anti-parliamentary games and anti-democratic games, your people see you and understand. He will find out everything, Mr President, absolutely. You bet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u550	"Where they owed us, they took the ox," says the Greek people. Another bowling we do not tolerate. You have the floor, Mr. Papachristopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u551	Thank you, Mr President. I intended other things to say today. I stayed up all night to gather evidence, but I think it doesn't make any sense anymore. The story today, the so-called battle of the battles ended after the Minister of National Defence and mainly after the Prime Minister's prototype. It is no coincidence that one or two political leaders have not dedicated a second to the supposed battle of the battles. Mr. Leventis, I think, said absolutely nothing, Mr. Theodorakis said something about Skopje. Respect all this. I would like to remind you, however, that in a very short time, Klaus Regling has said this - on 4 December, there is a chance that the third evaluation will be closed. I would also like to remind you that major executives of three of the largest rating houses, MODY'S, STADARD & POOR'S and FITCH, have advanced the positive course of the country's economy and especially economic and social indicators. There is neither a leader on the planet nor a great country. After all, we have experienced this recently, when we heard that the Prime Minister was failing, because he feared the question of the Members of the New Democracy and met Emmanuel McCron, who knows that his role is being upgraded at the moment in Europe after the difficulties that Mrs Merkel has encountered in Germany. We welcome Germany to the club in Europe, because so far there has been rather German Europe.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u552	Do we welcome Germany at the club in Europe?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u553	Yes, at the club in Europe. I know exactly what I'm saying. Germany was almighty. There was no European Union, then, Mr Chiara. There was a German Union. It's my opinion. You don't have to share it. So I say to you that we welcome her at the club in Europe. I'm clear. And I was very pleased to hear that the Prime Minister was called with Mr. Schultz. You know very well that, if the liberal party goes out of the way, this government, which is thought to be the SPD, will be a real gift for our country. I am saying all this because I have again heard a disaster in here that economics are not going well again. I would therefore like to make a small retrogression - a reminder - that this government's parentheses did not come out. Unbelievable aggression. "Go away. Do it. Make it." We all know that in parliamentary democracy the parliamentary term is four years. And we also know that the fair play of parliament says that you are waiting for at least the first two years. I want to remind you of some elections. Mr. Loverdo, if you're kind, I always listen to you. Well, parliamentist's fair play says you've been waiting for at least two years. Because some people consider the elections to be invisible in September. Two years and two months have passed. We didn't see that fair play either. And we still saw a lot of aggression, exaggeration, catastrophe, divisive opinions that touched the limits of hysteria. But come on, and I'll say it again, which in the most official way didn't pass this scenario. I believe the opposition has not been confirmed. Contrary to this, it is discounted by partners - lenders, rating houses, leaders of the European Union, that the country's exit from the memoranda is a given one. Today we have lived the exact same scenario. The newspapers and channels that support you said: 'The mother of the fights'. Mercy! You may agree or disagree with Mr. Leventis, but you know he has an instinct. He didn't spend half a second on the question. He took the floor and I waited for him to say a half a word. He didn't say anything. It doesn't matter whether or not anyone agrees. It is characteristic, tangible proof, that after the Minister's intervention with the evidence - and above all the Prime Minister - the story ended here. I also owe my party leader Pano Kammenos something. I do not hide from you that we have conflicts within our party at times, I would like to believe constructive. One thing, however, was not questioned by one of us, who are next to him: his morale and his honesty. If anything unites me, I tell you directly, this side unites me. And he tells you this, someone who lives at the 50 sq.m. - if you'll excuse me, who doesn't cash out his parliamentary property with cons, do a private profession, who doesn't have a car, who doesn't have police officers to open the doors to him - be careful what I'm saying to you - who's turned half the planet with humanitarian missions. I met outside, Leventis, the old MP of SYRIZA, who had a hard time together when half Lebanon was bombing. I say, then, directly: Kammenos gave nineteen cases to justice from armaments, dared to give two hundred journalists who humiliated the CEDEFOP. Oh, of the miracle! People who report gave money to a man who was sentenced to "NOOR 1", 86 grand. He's been convicted. I'm not saying his name. [[Applause from the wings of ANEL and SYRIZA]] With what morality? With what? He's the same one who denounced the CDS. And if they're currently indicted ten people, they're from his complaints. You want to criminalize wealth? When I was with the donkey in the village, Panos Kammenos - yes - inherited his father's property. He sold cars all over Greece. If you want us to criminalize him, we'll do it. No, you're not gonna find him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u554	Mr. Carras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u555	Thank you, Mr President. You will allow me a very small introduction. I have had the honour of my fellow Members representing them in this debate. I will therefore avoid, as far as possible, personal views and try to make a synthesis of all the issues, as they have emerged from today's debate. Why am I doing this? He's good-looking. The Independent Members are not a parliamentary group and everyone retains the right to have their opinion and to be often anti-dialoguely opposite to others. So I come to an issue which has been raised today by the debate. The armaments have been afflicted, afflicted and will afflict any country in need of defence. In Greece we have a long history of the past. There have been problems. There have been violations of the law. But what we now need to take into account the ethical dimension of these issues and respect moral values. Today, therefore, the debate in the House was exhausted if Mr Papadopoulos was a representative of Saudi Arabia, a country independent, or a mediator. This, then, leaves a cap that might have been mediated by the reason that he was simply showing some documents, which they probably legalising against Saudi Arabia. But you will allow me here, here, to make a truly personal point of view and in relation to the text of No 3978/2011, which many colleagues have mentioned. Is this law, under Law 3978, aimed at transparency within the provisions of the Armed Forces, the objectivity, the integrity of the representatives? I live on one point, therefore, by reading the relevant provision: ‘It is forbidden to economic operators or their legal representatives, who are involved in procurement, contract execution, etc., to use any intermediary, intermediary or agent in the procurement and performance process’. I feel that this provision is very restrictive.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u556	And for a state?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u557	And even for a state and I will give my opinion, Minister. I have the impression that the provision is very restrictive in order to achieve the principles of transparency. I become more specific: the state has its diplomatic representatives to discuss. In this case, Mr Papadopoulos appears as a representative of an anonymous company that maintains a facility somewhere in Kilkis, if I have heard it correctly, and that he represents the State of Saudi Arabia. For me, if you want the strict legal opinion, it is intermediate. And why is he intervening? Because it is not directly negotiated by a state to a state. He uses a trustee - I will not go into the question of whether he is an intermediary or not - a trustee company to conclude a contract. So I ask on this point: does the law allow this? Because he, who is intermediate, even a representative of a state...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u558	It represents the face, not the company.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u559	He's not a representative, Minister, forgive me. Let me speak if you have goodness, and you have plenty of time to answer. I don't have the time. The legal representative shall be the one representing a company directly as a member of its administration, not the one representing it in a particular contract. That's my difference in interpretation, if you'd like. I mean, if I have a company, the president will come, the CEO will come and represent it. Since the presence of a person appears as a representative, I have a problem, because it can work either as a lobby or for the same purposes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u560	That's right!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u561	This, unfortunately, seems to have been jeopardised within this contract under way.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u562	What about the state?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u563	And the state still. And I'll tell you why. It is well known that the Member States are still channelling hatreds to the right and left into the armaments programmes. Is what we hear unprecedented?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u564	But we're selling, we're not buying!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u565	Does Mr. Kyriakidis represent us or does he not represent us?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u566	I don't know Mr. Kyriakidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u567	What you're saying is legally funny!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u568	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u569	You're right!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u570	My view is that since the third person comes, even if he becomes a representative of another country, a moral issue arises. Because it has the possibility of flexibility, it does not always represent the interests of the country in order to be directly accountable. Just mediator. It is not far from the concept of mediation from this concept. The law has a number of problems. Look at him, because we will deal with them in the future, if the country intends to see armaments programmes. As a summary of what I have said, first of all, I would like to say that the House is not a court, so that I can look through evidence and full proof of the outcome or prejudiciality. I am looking for the practical and, in particular, the ethical dimension. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall finish, Mr President. Give me some time if you're kind.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u571	You're welcome, Mr. Carras.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u572	However, there is a need for much more sensitivity and attention to these issues, because you have seen a dimension which has arisen. If the missiles were to go to Yemen, where there is war through representatives from Saudi Arabia and there we have - the European Union and the UN condemned it - the deaths of civilians, which we cannot protect. I would like to end by repeating that my speech today has been limited as a representative of all my colleagues and I did not want to take personal initiatives and be seated. To sum up, therefore, I think that even through a strict interpretation of the law, because it requires a moral interpretation of the law, we have a violation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u573	Mr Carras, the strict interpretation of the Rules of Procedure presupposed that you would be done two minutes ago. But finish now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u574	To conclude, because if I start a dialogue with you, Mr President, I will not go down from the Step to the end. I sum up and say that it takes a lot of attention. He wants to see it on his moral side here. To conclude, I say that even though without particular responsibilities, there is always political responsibility in these conventions, which must be assessed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u575	Here, Mr Georgiadis, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u576	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will try to be very brief, so that I can keep to everything in a minute. What did we hear here? Unimportant! We have heard the Prime Minister accusing an ambassador of Greece of being almost meaningless. No one, however, entered the logic of thinking about the simple thing: The unscrupulous ambassador warned in November 2016 that if the Greek Government still preferred Mr Papadopoulos for mediators, we would lose the deal. What did Mr. Tsipras say here? That the Ambassador was on an orderly service, because he served another mediator, a gentleman named Sfakianakis. The question, Mr President, has, in the end, proved correctly what the honourable ambassador said or wrong? So, what, is the deal broken or it's not broken? The deal's broken. So the Prime Minister, who even told us "how is it possible in this way to involve the diplomatic body in your opposition?", came here to the House, devoured the ambassador, who proved from the continuation of things that he was justified, because what the ambassador said was done, that is, the deal was broken and we lost the money. Mr Kammenos laughing, Mr President, began to say so and Mr Tsipras said so: 'We had the money to lose'. While Mr. Tsipras said earlier, "but the ambassador was working for another mediator who wanted to get a better price and we made the best deal for Greece". But the best deal we made for Greece, according to Mr. Tsipras, who was also smiling, was ultimately to get zero euros. They're gonna drive us crazy, all right? And most of all...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u577	All right, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u578	Mr. Sfakianakis...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u579	I don't know any Mr. Sfakianakis, sir. I know the ambassador told us that if we insist on Papadopoulos, we'll lose the money and lose the money.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u580	Put it down!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u581	And let's go to the last, Mr President, for thirty seconds. But the major thing I put in my speech, to substantiate the delusion of the Greek Minister of National Defence, who came to the Committee of Parliament and never mentioned Mr Papadopoulos - although they were already supposed to know him - is that we are missing two hundred thousand ammunition.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u582	You've told this in your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u583	And that is what Mr Kammenos answered, Mr President, as follows: 'You tell me what the two thousand ammunition would be. This is not the case in serious states.' This was the answer to all Mr Kammenos's answer to where the two thousand more ammunition of 105 millimetres would go, where, if Mr Papadopoulos had lodged the guarantee, on the basis of the agreement signed by Mr Kammenos, he would have taken it and already sold it as a smuggler.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u584	It's over and over! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u585	I'm closing, Mr. President. And most importantly, Mr President, I would like to ask Mr Kammenos, who only knows to say dirt to Mr Vitsa: Mr Mitsotakis did a simple thing, said to Mr Tsipras: 'Do you want to call Papadopoulos and Papadakis and Sfakianakis tomorrow, and whoever you and the ambassador want?'
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u586	Mr. Georgiadis, please, you have no more reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u587	In this, Mr. Vitsa, Mr. Tsipras didn't answer anything. So you want a cover-up, you want a hood because you've got the nest dirty!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u588	Don't you hear? You don't have the floor anymore.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u589	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u590	Mr. Voridis, I'm sure you'll keep one minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u591	Wait a minute, Mr. President. I have also asked to speak with Mr Davakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u592	Here, Mr. Davakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u593	Mr President, now that we have a few, the problems of the Convention and the questions raised by the New Democracy are more deafening, following the speech by the Prime Minister. And I will ask: after everything was done well, since there is a contract, since Mr Papadopoulos represents, as Mr Tsipras said, Saudi Arabia, since Saudi Arabia really wanted the leaps, because on 23 June, ten days after the signing of the contract with Admiral Kyriakidis, who sent him to Micratta, did not go to 66 million on the account of the Ministry of National Defence and the staff concerned, as the law says? Was the Saudis financially close and could they not give this money? And it is once again the reality of what we say - deafening - because it shows the inadequacy and carelessness with which the Minister for National Defence is managing the issues he has dealt with so far. Tell me what you have dealt with and which you have brought to an end. Tell me one. And tell me, Minister, from now on, when the Committee on Equipment is meeting how all our colleagues - I hope the SYRIZA colleagues who support you - will be able to answer their questions in this situation. In conclusion, Mr President, the use of non-operational material is not a difficult matter. And we had done so on behalf of Mr Spiliotopoulos when we gave 30 millimeter cartridges to the United States. What is difficult is to get Kilkis into with Saudi Arabia, Papadopoulos and the Saudis and have no effect! And I ask you, and please answer me: Since everything was okay, as your Chief Minister told you, why did the money not enter the Ministry of National Defence funds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u594	Thank you, too. Mr. Prison has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u595	Mr President, the Minister of National Defence has attempted a blackout, but he does not come out and convince anyone. He developed theories of meetings and conspiracy, and even of those who are in St Peter, even though you benefited. You've forgotten that the dead are rightful, Minister. Respect! Do not think that with such malicious performances you will escape the essence of the debate, even though you have lost your temper on several occasions. You lead the Armed Forces and you have to be a totalitarian, be a giant, be a sucker, and do not “understood Christ”! You lost your temper. You found your smile when the Prime Minister spoke. I think you are also unfair to your position, but, possibly, to yourself. I would like to ask you this: you have involved the Armed Forces in a real wave. How is it possible for the Heads of the Brads to be abroad and to convince their counterparts to the contrary? How is it possible for members of the Armed Forces who are in diplomatic, military representations, how - because they will be asked - to defend the Armed Forces, their Minister and the country? So you have done a great deal of damage to the Armed Forces and also to the country. You cannot solve, Minister, neither the problems of the country nor the problems of the Armed Forces, because you are the same problem. We have repeatedly laid hands on cooperation because we are united by the national defence that is good for all citizens. You turned our backs on us, even though we insisted on this. The ruin work is yours, it's not ours. Hello, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u596	Mr. Tasoula has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u597	The debate is coming to an end. The best of the Prime Minister's arguments could have been - which is not the case, but it could have been - that another mediator tried to ruin the job for the original mediator. Well, well? That is why we say that these agreements must be made transnationally, so that no other mediator can deal with undermining another mediator. That's exactly what you didn't do. If we accept that Sfakianakis is a mediator, you have allowed the mediators to perpetuate this issue, with the result that from 13 June, Mr Kammene, until now, the objective has not been achieved. I think we are entitled - because the eighteen topics you have brought to Parliament's Committee on Armaments in the last two and a half years have voted for them all - to claim good faith and constructive spirit when we have concerns and questions, objections and criticisms against you or one of you. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like to remind you, Mr Cammene, that when we voted on this issue in the Committee on Armaments, you told us that it might be that this story of the original 63 million that took place in 66 million, and that it would be until the end of June. Suddenly, on 20 September you tell us that they have not given five euros and that by 1 October you will turn against the representative and against Saudi Arabia for their obligations. On 7 November, you replied to a question by colleagues, saying that you had done nothing of what you assured us on 20 September. All you did is that on 3 November you called the Saudi Ambassador to your office and we don't know what happened. Even if someone tries to be absolutely good and naive, if you want and accept that it is what you say it is, it is still too short because this agreement has not been honoured by Saudi Arabia. The question is not why he was not honoured by Papadopoulos if we accept that he is a regular representative, but because Saudi Arabia has not honoured its obligations. I would remind Members of the SYRIZA that from 13 June when the agreement was signed by 5 November, the first noise in the press, no one dealt with this issue. The deal went to Nerra, the deal died.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u598	You're done, Mr. Tasoula.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u599	So, Mr Kammene, I think we have a failed agreement at best, in the worst cases, which I think is unfortunately the case, we have a middleman who has blown up a prospect of collecting 66 million people who would go to housing for the officers and lack them in a difficult period of their lives.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u600	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u601	And I would remind you - and I conclude - that you started your career at the Ministry with a smuggling, saying that you directly owed the military, you introduced the military union, and now you undermine any prospect that the country might receive money from normal transnational agreements.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u602	Ghosts beg them...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u603	I, Mr. Kammenos, am not like you...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u604	Mr. Prison, I'm obliged to impose the order.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u605	We cut your ruffles...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u606	The rosés you have legislated for yourself alone. Excuse me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u607	Mr. Chiara has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u608	Mr President, in my first speech I had expressed the wish that this parliamentary debate should stand at the level of genuine parliamentary control and that there should be no references to third or fourth issues or to attempt to shift the debate somewhere else. Sadly, for once, I was disproved. And I say that, because at least my sense is that the Members of the Chamber waited for some answers. To applaud, ladies and gentlemen, only the lines which are being heard, without actually having any response at all, does not provide an honour for the Greek Parliament. That is my personal view. Of course, everyone can see their role or presence in the central political scene through another targeting, through another logic. However, Minister, I would like to ask you a question immediately: will this agreement finally be implemented? It is very crucial that you answer by closing this debate. I say this because if, Mr President, the agreement is implemented without Mr Papadopoulos, we are talking about another landscape. If it is implemented with Mr Papadopoulos, we must see what its real role is. And because the Prime Minister, as Mr Tassulas rightly pointed out earlier, focused on the reasoning that there was another mediator who would give us less money, but we wanted the most, I think you should protect, Minister, the Prime Minister. You should have protected him at least by making him known who this Mr. Sfakianakis is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u609	Mr. Voridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u610	Mr President, the conclusion of this debate has come to an end. And conclusions have been drawn, because in fact the main issues have not just been left unanswered, but the answers have actually shown what has been done. The Arms Committee has been lied to. In fact, no one was able to answer how it is possible for a Greek company to allegedly represent three different states as proxies. It is clear that this company has representation contracts, which are on remuneration, i.e. it is a normal mediator. That's all the Prime Minister came to tell us nothing. What's come to tell us? That there is a document, what the Minister of National Defence has submitted, which says it is genuine, this delegation. There was no question of her authenticity here, no one insulted her as a maker. What has been challenged here is the legitimacy of representation and whether he, that is, an officer, can grant representation for the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. That's what she was questioned. We didn't get any answers on that. What is the involvement of the embassy? When it was pointed out that this was dealt with by the embassy, Mr President, what did we hear? That the ambassador did all this, so what? He lied to the government - that's what the Prime Minister said - to serve someone who implied that he was someone else in the middle. So the other mediator is the good guy for the ambassador, while for the government this man is the good guy. This is the Prime Minister's answer. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] Then the best. The finger has also shaken us, because we are not responsible for foreign policy and diplomacy, and we are talking about special handling in this House. Excuse me, but don't go crazy. Didn't the Prime Minister bring and read the special manipulations in the House? I have a question for you to leave with thoughts. Because the Foreign Minister told us that this, namely the public use of special handling, is a felony, the Prime Minister who read it in the House used it? Did he commit a felony? That is what today's debate is closing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u611	Before I give Mr. Kammenos the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u612	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u613	Yes, Mr. Vitsa. I would therefore like to clarify this. I am surprised to hear from the parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Independence Mr Loverdo that the two parties, namely the Democratic Reconciliation and the Potami, have been responsible for making these texts public. As far as I know, they have already shared with the parliamentary authors.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u614	And the security locks?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u615	You're welcome, Minister. This situation shows a few things and because I was personally involved, I would like to be very clear. It shows that this was the objective from the outset and not the study by three or five people in the Committee on Foreign and Security. The aim was to prepare the ground for a whole week and through the press with documents that would flow through a process that would not be possible, we would seek our services in Parliament. I do not mean that it would be leaked by those responsible for the Democratic Alliance, but by the process that it would open, it would immediately take place within hours and we would not understand where it would come from.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u616	That's never happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u617	That was the target, the publicity. They shared classified documents. I believe that we have safeguarded this House, even through our confrontation, from becoming a vehicle for the creation of impressions and the embryonic illegal management of secrets of state documents. The debate was extremely revealing, but everyone can have their opinion. There wasn't any kind of cover. Reports may obviously be made verbally, without tabling documents in the Minutes of the House and inviting us to contact these documents. I reiterated beforehand that this can be done at the relevant authority, where it is characterised, because that is the key. Mr. Vorides, who is very experienced, understood it. In fact, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Prime Minister who spoke directly today, says "Please, anyone who wants to come to the Minister's office. On these documents I say their "residues" or I say three elements, it can be easily updated. The same can be done by Mr. Kammenos for the documents that have been characterized by the OHIM and his ministry, through a special committee that always exists to make this declassification. This could neither have the right to do so by the House, and in particular by the state-owned government documents. It's never happened. You are well aware of a former colleague - I do not want to mention his name - a prominent member of the current Democratic Union which, for this reason, had a small adventure with justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u618	The document has never been found! He wasn't found!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u619	So I want to be very clear. I believe that, of course, two parties can fully take political responsibility and submit documents to the House or to the public. In my opinion they are set out in every direction in practice. We're all judging. So I am also fully aware of the views I have expressed and of the decisions I take. We're all judging. We don't have to fight about that, either. However, this case closes in a way that should not be closed, because it is clear that such a case-law must not be formed, because I see the document - which I have just written, I could not do any differently - by the heads of the two parties and which says in 'A Member when such a document comes into his hands will not do anything so that his colleagues can be informed even?' Ladies and gentlemen, Members are not journalists. We know very well, how, by body of documents, electronics or others, from all cases and internationally, etc., journalism and the fourth power in recent years have their own code, and they are judged for it both by justice and by public speech, and are almost obliged to give it, to share it. The congressman is not that. As far as the expression "When classified documents come to my hands..." in my view it should be addressed to the relevant authority by law, that is, these confidential documents should go to make them known or discuss them with the Prime Minister or the Ministers or the Secretary-General. Also, if they are personal data, there is the opinion of two authorities, the Data Protection Authority and the principle on which we are going to room 165 if I am not mistaken - and we see the documents. These issues are unsolved. Alas, if a cover-up comes in. I hear for a week that I am one of the protagonists for the cover, because we have not allowed the House to make public government documents. I think it was, and it's a start-up position. It was, and it's a legitimate position. It was and is a place that honors the House and does not leave it unintentionally, in particular, communication, out of here, of conduct and objectives. That's what I wanted to say, because I heard earlier that I was in my office, Mr. Loverdos right, coming out and saying: 'Look, we got the blame, we gave it to the public, and they're already in and out.' I could not leave it without a comment very clearly. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Mr. Vitch wants to make a comment. Then the Minister will close, Mr. Kammenos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u620	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u621	Mr. Loverdo, it's all done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u622	Aren't you going to give me the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u623	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u624	You said what you said. You made a speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u625	I didn't touch anyone. Did I see anyone? Did I touch you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u626	I didn't say you hurt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u627	So? The bills are clear. We are talking one week in public. I gave the floor to the Deputy Minister. Let's not get out of this case.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u628	I want the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u629	For two minutes, no. Wait a minute, if you want, tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u630	But is that possible?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u631	Please. What can I do, Mr. Kammenos? It's all possible now, after giving the documents in public, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u632	Then leave, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u633	Minister, you understood self-sarcasm. Let's get to it. You'll close the meeting. Mr. Loverdo, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u634	From the first moment I spoke to the National Representation and only to it, Ministers and ladies and gentlemen, - and only to it - in order to make clear what has happened and what has happened to me, I asked you from the Bureau - to chair Mr Bordent - to decide which of the so-called methods we have been following, the House must follow, so that all three hundred people will be informed and the violation of confidentiality will not happen. I knew that the Minister of National Defence, one of these three documents, has given it on November 7th in the parliamentary procedure...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u635	Oh, no. Top secret?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u636	Don't tell me no. I got it here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u637	What are you talking about, Mr. Loverdo? Top secret never.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u638	Please. You'll answer. On 7 November you gave the contract, without the reference 'confidential'. But the contract.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u639	Not top secret. What are you talking about? Confidential.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u640	Without the reference 'confidential' but the same text as 'confidential' does not say 'confidentially'. Keep them up to date. I told you that he has given it and I still want the three hundred to be informed. And now you're saying...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u641	Mr. Loverdo, excuse me very much. You are also doing so outside the parliamentary control procedure. You remember that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u642	I don't want to criticize you saying words. I respect your role. I say to you that when you talk about direct contact by Members with journalists, you know very well that all the confidentiality that has come to Parliament and on your days and other ministries in the context of control in room 162- and not 165 that you said - in the presence of officials in this House who ban the photography, have been read and no one has leaked even half. We therefore have practice and have respected it by the Members of the Greek Parliament. This time, however, you said exceptionally that you did not say any of your colleagues from the government, and in an unethical way.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u643	Mr. Loverdo, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u644	We have told you both parties that what you are doing is not right and the texts given by the Minister first will come to the public for all Greek citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u645	You've already made it public, Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u646	That is the truth, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u647	All the rest we've discussed. Please, Mr Vitsa, you have the floor and then Mr Kammenos will be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u648	I will be very brief, Mr President. I want to tell you this. First of all, I would like to thank the overwhelming majority of the Members of Parliament who have accepted that the clearly correct definition of the transnational agreement is the one I gave to the committee. So I think I'm entitled to ask academic institutions to teach him at school. Of course I don't take a step backwards from what I said. But I would like to remind you that in that committee, at the same time and in reply to my colleague George Kyritsis, we were discussing the release of these bombs - I said that I do not know where they are - when Mr Pope from Golden Dawn spoke first about Saudi Arabia. Most of you knew. The second thing I want to say is that I did something yesterday that I don't usually do. I sat down and counted in newspapers - basically in five - what was written about the "fighting mother". It was about 30 pages yesterday. So if you take the fifteen days, you make a very good police scenario - a novel. I want to tell you everything you say so far, it is based on the paradox of words, laws - and I will tell you - new ones - and I say this about you, Mr Voridis, that - perceptions of international economic relations. They're new. It may, of course, prove right in the future, I'm not saying. What do we say from the beginning? We have an attempt to reach agreement, we have the necessary documents, we have the representations and we move on. What do you say from the beginning? The middleman. Yes, I hear that now. I asked or tried to turn my mind to the Prime Minister if, for Mr Sfakianakis, I imagine none of us know him, at least, right now - he said the word'medium'. The Prime Minister said the word'source'. Why do you put the word'medium' and that is where you build a whole logic? Because you want to say the mediator is forbidden. I'm going to the second thing I want to say. You know what? On the question of intermediaries, in the transnational agreements, one would say that it was once resolved in Europe in the 1920s. In Greece, if you go backwards, we find the first law in 1931, if I'm not mistaken. The 2011 legislation, because it does not have to do with it, is not about it and I cannot understand why you are doing this because you are making this a valid legal matter. Article 9, if you go to the explanatory statement - but we sat down and read it again now - speaks of companies. It was well done by Mrs Gennimatas, who added Article 25 to the MOU between NSA and IGG, but there was no reason for that. There was no reason for him to do that! Nor can anyone blame Mrs Gennimata because that MOU has not been implemented, because it was foreseen that there would be work between RAS and IGG, two companies of EUR 78 000, 000, of which are currently being implemented and which have been difficult to achieve - and that is four. And here's the argument is that...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u649	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u650	Not anyway, I said that this is from a long time to end, but there are no middlemen, there are representatives. On all the papers that are either being leaked or brought to the House - and I will say a word after - nowhere appearing on the part of the Greek state - that the GFCM always appears with its representative as the representative of the Greek state - and not on the part of the Saudi Arabian mediator.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u651	So could a company represent Greece?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u652	Everywhere that shows up, because from there on we go to things I don't want to open up a conversation, because it will be Agathatha Christi and Hercules Poirot, or rather Dreyfus, or even Cluzeau... So that's the key issue, we're telling you, we're telling you again. Now let's go see it on the consul's well-known and confiscated and well-known telegram. You all start and read from the third paragraph in which it says "Saudi-Saudi soldiers". In the second paragraph, they call for the exact title of Admiral, Mr. Kyriakidis, to be included in the Arabic agreement. And in the first paragraph, the Saudi officer - here we have a name specific - ask whether he has the opportunity to make interventions in the agreement, be careful to see, in this agreement that is supposed to be written in Greek only and who do not know how to read it, but he is asking for intervention. You know that the Directorate-General for Defence Equipment has sent this agreement with all these signatures to our embassy in Riyadh and the Saudi Embassy in the country. That's how they come. Why if not all of this, let me explain why a Saudi-Arab committee is coming? The committee that came and you say all this, why did it come? [[Noise in the Chamber]] Is that what they said? 'Let's go over there, see what's going on?' What you leave as a hint cannot stand any criticism. I'll say what Mr. Mitsotakis asked for. You say: 'You now give three hundred thousand gets the hundred thousand and the other two thousand mistakes'. Yes, Mr. Theodorakis also made an equation. Let's get this straight. I don't suppose there's anyone here who agrees with making wars, killing children and a number of other things. We're all together in that logic. So I agree that this whole world must be protected. Of course, in yesterday's report by Mr Lygeros - from where I read it - Germany has approved a mission of warships, etc., of 450 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u653	Through Mr. Papadopoulos?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u654	I don't know. Maybe you know them. Your area is closer to Germany than mine.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u655	Minister, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u656	I'm closing, Mr. President. I would therefore expect that there will be a specific request from all of this, and suddenly Mr Mitsotakis, the Chief of the New Democracy, is coming out and saying: 'In the beginning we were asking questions. Now we're sure what's going on. So I have a request.’ What's that request? To come to the Equipment Committee tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u657	That's not all he said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u658	Didn't he say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u659	He said that, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u660	So to come to the Committee on Equipment and turn it into something like a pre-review committee. That's what he said. I mean, he was giving two mountains, and he didn't even make a muscle, nor did that thing. At last, get in touch, and I'm telling you. If you want to ask for anything, ask for it. I will never say to anyone: 'You know, prove it.' Ask for it, and if there's little evidence, let's go see what's going on. After all, we as the Ministry of National Defence have sent these things to the courthouse, we have sent them to the Areo Ice. We fear nothing on these issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u661	We saw it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u662	Finally you come to your conclusion, Mr. Treasury. I'm sorry, but I'll tell you with respect to your degree. It surprises me, I'd accept that I do that, or will Mr. Georgiadis do so, but do you speak like this, officer, that the Army is being destroyed? Is that possible? This naiveness has been heard since 2004, when the coordinator of PASOK spokesperson in the Committee of Inquiry into Equipment and MOR - M1 said that a retired man is right and that those who denounce are people in the shadow. But you did not come to say today that "then I was wrong, because those who defended the TOR - M1 are in prison now". That's not what happened. So I say you end up with exactly what you want, do it in an official way, get a specific answer again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u663	Mr President, I want the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u664	You're welcome, Mr. Prisoner. You've spoken three times.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u665	For a personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u666	There's no personal now. If that's possible! He has said to you a general with respect and not to use the word 'destruct'. To God! Respectfully he spoke of your office. You're a general. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that from the top Western theories of the House they are attending our meeting, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the courtroom "ELLEROS VENIZELOS", forty-four students and students and two educational sessions of the Hellenic College of Thessaloniki. Guys, we welcome you to the House. Thank you for your presence. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u667	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what is happening today in Parliament's Chamber is indeed shocking. Official documents are lodged, proving that there was no mediator. The Great Opposition, New Democracy, Potami, the new PASOK - I don't know the new name - insists on mediators. Because otherwise their novel would collapse. That now raises a question of credibility. Indeed, I wonder how the Greek people can trust these political forces. Things are clear. In the documents submitted to the Greek Parliament, it seems clear that this is an agreement between the Greek Government and the Government of Saudi Arabia. He writes: ‘exporter, Greece’, ‘importer, Saudi Arabia’. The terms of the agreement are that the money will leave the account of the Ministry of Finance of Saudi Arabia and enter the account of the Ministry of Finance of Greece. So how can someone get a miserable, then? This thing is incredible! Only the new New Democracy can think about it, get one mistress either as a mediator or as anything from an agreement that money leaves one Treasury and go to the other! We've heard that the state supplies are too! To whom will the state provide supplies? If the nations give provisions, they will give the one they choose. Papadopoulos, we didn't choose him. Papadopoulos was chosen by Saudi Arabia for their representative and it proved here that Papadopoulos knew him better than this government.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u668	Why didn't the money go away?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u669	I'll answer you, Mr. Davaki. I will reply to you, Mr Davaki, and you will see why you have a responsibility, Mr Davaki. Then they gave the 67 million to Papadopoulos. When was the Prime Minister heard, taking with him the Governor of the National Bank, going to a state, giving them 67 million -100 million then - to pay the importers, charge the state and take the company.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u670	You in this parliamentary group weren't then?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u671	No, sir, I wasn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u672	Mr. Chiara, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u673	Do you know where I was? I was in General Gryllakis' office, who happened to be the commander of Papadopoulos and who revealed his records to me. Because that's what's gonna hurt you too much. These files show the relationships, and that's where the account at Paradise Paper of Mr. Spiropoulos will prove. Let's open him up and see where and where the money went. You'll see them in a row. But you have undertaken - and I am glad that you have shown your role, because you have made a secretary from Mr Avramopoulos of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group - to give the floor to Mr Vorides, because he is the lawyer of the group who organised the system. There it seems how you organized, how much employees you are and what political arm of a criminal group and a gang. How you surrendered! You don't speak last. You're giving it to the lawyer. Mr President, we need to make a few things clear, even though they have been made very clear, so that people can hear. This contract, signed by Admiral for Papadopoulos, as signed, was not signed at the airport of Micra. Signed at the military unit, the commander's office, at 113. This contract was officially sent to the Government of Saudi Arabia through our Ambassador to Riyadh and through the Ministry to this Ambassador of Saudi Arabia. If there were any doubts about this agreement, we could have had the objections from the start. We told you three, four, five, six times with documents that they never called him back. I'll tell you something else. Mr. Admiral showed me this morning on his cell phone, how he was notified the officers will be coming the next day. With consul's sms that he doesn't share anywhere. It is addressed to the officers of the Directorate-General for Arms, not through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs but directly, Vice-Secretary of State, not even by the Ministry of National Defence. There's been a huge damage here. I hope, Mr Loverdos, that what you made public does not contain the keys to destroy the country's cryptographic system, because we are talking about top-secret handling. I hope you haven't done that. Someone from your staff I believe told you that these documents are the keys to which the country's entire cryptographic system is based. To clarify the secrets, because they put on what I said other things the President of Parliament was saying, but Mr Kotzias said. There are three kinds of classified. There are the top secrets of SETNA specific handling, which no one knows about. So I will tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that some of these letters I have heard today. These are texts sent by the ambassador from his own fax staff to the Foreign Minister's personal fax, and the Minister of Foreign Affairs is doing very well, and they are not communicated anywhere. I was not aware of the existence of Sfakianakis that he had intervened with the embassy. Because I will also tell you what I know about Sfakianakis and so it will prove because history has not been paid to date. It has not been paid to date because it seems that when we signed this contract for 66 million, someone who was in charge of the Government of Saudi Arabia and began to negotiate by saying to the Saudi side "do not go any further, we will find them cheaper", on the Greek side "I will represent Saudi Arabia and help me, Mr. Ambassador and Mr. Warden, to become a representative of Saudi Arabia, so that no one else can go to speak." I'm asking you. I was approved by the House. So say, "Sfakianakis" we've been accepting him. I'm telling you now that they tell me that Sfakianakis had tried to come to the office to see me, to see my partners, to see people. Why? To say that he is the representative, and when we told him "To get into the ministry, you will first bring paper from Saudi Arabia that you are a representative to speak...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u674	So the Prime Minister didn't learn from the telegram about Sfakianakis. He learned it from you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u675	But listen to something. That he had gone to the embassy and that the ambassador and the consul did this, no, I didn't know. Now I find out, because a hundred...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u676	Are you judging that they're doing Sfakianakis' job?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u677	A hundred appear as representatives. We'll tell them you'll have paperwork to get in. So here, what do we have? We have a Sfakianakis who goes to the Saudis and says "do not pay, because we will manage, because we have friends, to bring a better price". That is why payments were not made without ever changing the authorisation of the State of Saudi Arabia, which I fully respect and declare publicly, without ever telling us that the agreement is not being made, because the agreement has not been denounced. We write them down and tell them 'the date is over, answer us'. And they don't answer us "no"...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u678	Don't you have a limit on Mr. Papadopoulos?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u679	We don't have Mr. Papadopoulos, sir! We have the Government of Saudi Arabia, and that is why I call on the ambassador. That's how much you want to understand? I call, sir, the Ambassador of Saudi Arabia to the Ministry and I speak with him and say to him - in the presence of the Ambassador, Mr Karayannis - 'Mr. Ambassador, we have an agreement. We will only ask you to inform the Minister, because the dates have elapsed, whether it will be implemented and whether it will be paid." In order for there to be an agreement - and this is very serious - there must be unnecessarily credit. There is no agreement or agreement unless there is unnecessary credit. ‘Open the Absolute Credit’. And what does Saudi ambassador answer at the last meeting? "Give me some time to contact the Ministry." No answer. The ambassador on the phone again. Again, the answer 'Give me some time'. Because you asked many times - I hadn't done it so far because I didn't think I should do it - 'Wouldn't you make a letter to your counterpart?' A hundred times! And I asked to go to Saudi Arabia and fax we made our embassy and fax, and we made a letter and a letter to the Saudi ambassador, and we sent it to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u680	Did the Saudis say no?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u681	Mr. Georgiadis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u682	Sit down. Sit down! That's all in your schools. Not here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u683	What did the Saudis answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u684	You're very welcome. It summarizes the closure of the meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u685	Every time, then, when we were addressing and asking for an official response which would say three things either that the agreement is not valid because they did not want either their authorised representative to change and the master will come here - since he is not the master of this, the master will come here - or that is the case, the answer has always been: 'Wait, there are problems in the country and we negotiate to be able to pay'. Don't you know what he said last time? ‘How much money is it?’. I told him it was 66 million. And he said to me: 'Well for 66 million I do not think there will be a problem'. That was the answer of the Saudi Ambassador. But you realise that in Saudi Arabia at this time there are internal problems. Some of these imitations, the Minister of National Defence and the successor, have hanged them upside down and some have them in a hotel, because they were the ones who grabbed Saudi money. So don't watch any of them be Mr. Sfakianakis' friend.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u686	Don't be Mr. Papadopoulos' friend.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u687	Please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u688	We as the Ministry of National Defence got the approval of the House to sell a useless material that we would pay to destroy. That is what I want the Greek people to understand and I do not care what you understand. This material will be paid, as you have been paying for so far and others that have come and made funds to us, such as the famous mines, Mr Davaki and Mr Tasoula, the mines you paid for 4 million to destroy them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u689	What do you mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u690	What do I mean? You'll see them later. So instead of destroying the ammunition, we went to sell them. I say this to you: we will try to sell them again. I understand that there are sensitivities in which we are selling, and that is why there are two procedures. There is the internal procedure of the House, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is the internal procedure, but there are international agreements. Of course we won't sell to terrorists or go kill children. We will sell to countries with which we are on the same axis and with Saudi Arabia we are on the same axis. Saudi Arabia is the country that currently supports Egypt. Egypt is our strongest ally in the Mediterranean. Yemen's case is a very old case. It's a case that's begun with East Block influences, and so on. Of course we do not want to participate in this. But I wonder - and I close with this - ladies and gentlemen, do you understand how much damage you have done in the country, taking this story out for Saudi Arabia? [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Do you realize that you are targeting Greece? Because everyone who wants to do it tomorrow morning with Saudi Arabia will also do it with us without any reason. Finally, Mr Vitsats explained very well that the question of transnational agreements does not apply to Article 17 of Law 3978. The Member States are not economic operators. So they can have a representative. And for the Brigadier, because I heard things from Mrs. Gennimata - I was afraid. We haven't made a bucket of him. We locked him up, he says, we tied him up, handcuffed him. None of this has happened. The Brigadier at the moment has left his post because his case is being investigated for the Directorate-General for Arms. He has made no revelation either officially or unofficially and serves in a very important place that is the Management of All Technical Services of the SADC. If responsibilities arise for the Brigadier, the responsibilities will be borne by Greek justice. We were due, once there was a question of not following the orders, which were to ask for payment or authorisation to hold any dialogue, and he even gave information on the previous one, as they said, G to G. There is no question of changing numbers. I heard something about two hundred, three hundred thousand. Ladies and gentlemen, when a transnational agreement has passed through the CSCE and the House and says three hundred thousand missiles and has come out of a final user certificate, that is, end-use certificates, it cannot be two hundred thousand ninety-nine ninety-one and three hundred-one. They're specific ammunition with an ID. The ammunition has an ID up there. You can't give a hundred thousand and keep fifty or give a hundred thousand and say I give three hundred. This transnational agreement is controlled to the end by both the seller and the buyer and has a responsibility. I heard Mr. Mitsotakis coming to reveal here. I really wonder who you've gathered there to your advisers. He revealed to us that Mr. Papadopoulos came to rent the premises of the Hellenic Defence Systems. The next day that was the proposal by Mr Papadopoulos, there was a written answer from the President of the NSAs that nothing from the NSAs is rented, that the proposed cooperation cannot go ahead either with regard to the rental of premises of our units or for co-production, because the company has its own capacity to produce products. Date of birth: 15 July 2017.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u691	Well, knowing you said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u692	You know her very well, and you and meditoli were very well, aren't you? Sixty-seven million was what Papadopoulos took. So let go of your acquaintance. As far as Mrs Gennamas is concerned, who did not know him and has not signed any agreement and who said that I am a liar - I have heard fifty marks - I wonder, because when we are in the school of our children, we speak friendlyly, we have a human relationship. He came over here and brought me 50 surnames. As far as Mrs. Gennamas is concerned, if you enter my twitter, you will see the signature of the agreement with IGG. I've taken three pictures. They're very pretty. You can see how Mrs. Gennamas signed with IGG to the one I mentioned. Finally, Mr Loverdos, I have a gift from the Committee of Inquiry, when you saw the bills for phone numbers and indeed all colleagues, you said: "For your information, I send you a communication from the Evangelos Venizelos and the three texts with a summary of the work of the Committee of Inquiry." And it's about radar TPQ-37 and TOR M1. It's been in jail so far. I'm tabling them for the Minutes. [[At this point the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u693	Good. It is clear that in such a debate with this content, names are constantly mentioned, complaints, revelations. It's an endless conversation. It lasted about six and a half hours. I think the conversation went well, and thank you very much. Parliamentarians Nikolaos Dendias and Spyrida Danellis are requesting permission from a few days' absence abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u694	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations. The debate on the number 9/8-11-2017 topical question regarding the sale of missiles by the Greek Mississipras Army and air bombs by the Hellenic Air Force in Saudi Arabia with an international agreement is hereby declared. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-27-S1-commons.u695	With the consent of the House at the time of 19.43 the sitting for the next Wednesday, 29 November 2017, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
