ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House that the Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food 'Following the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on cooperation in agriculture'. I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, before entering the topical and urgent debate, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Monday 6 March 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question raised by Mr Spyridon Adonidos Georgiadis to the Minister of Health regarding the statements made by the Deputy Minister of Health on "experimental" prices of certain medicinal products in the period before January 2015. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No. 542/28-2-2017, by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARKKKKKKKKEKKKEKKEKEKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKOKIKIKIKIKIKIKOKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKOKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKOKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKOKOKOKIKIKIKIKIKIKI 3. Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the problems of contract workers in cleaning at the National Technical University. 4. The Question No 533/24-2-2017 by Congressman Pireos of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Health about hospitals at the Children's Hospital in Boston. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The current question by MP Magnesia of New Democracy, Christou Boukorou, to the Minister of Economy and Development, concerning the increase in the unemployment rate in Magnesia due to deindustrialisation. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No. 541/28-2-2017, by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Migration Policy, on the immediate need to ensure the proper operation of Moria's First Reception Centre. 3. Under No 473/13-2-2017, the current question by MP II of the New Democracy Republic, Mrs.Akaterini Papakostas - Ironropoulou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the payment of contributions from the free traders. 4. The Question No 458/7-2-2017 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthakis to the Ministers for Health and Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on works contracts in hospitals and the circumvention of the right to maternity. 5. The Question No 413/30-1-2017 by MP Arta, New Democracy, George Stylios, to the Minister of Health, concerning the non-payment of cleanliness staff from the General Hospital of Arta. 6. The Question No 389/24-1-2017 by MP Aitolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Moraitis to the Minister of Health on the payment of workers cleaners to the services of the General Hospital of Artas. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 408/30-1-2017 by Mr Ioannis Giokas, Member of the Attica Party of Greece, to the Minister of Health, concerning the serious problems of families and workers in special education services. 8. The 313/5-1-2017 topical question by Piraeus II of the Centro Association Mr.Theodoras Megalonikou to the Minister of Health regarding the risk of children and adolescents staying without treatment. 9. The question raised by Mr Spyridonos-Adonidos Georgiadis to the Minister of Finance regarding the meeting of the Prime Minister with representatives of the investment bank "Rothschild". 10. The Question No 345/16-1-2017, by MP, Athens, Nea Spyridonos - Adonidos Georgiadis to the Minister of Finance, concerning mismanagement issues in the Hellenic Defence Systems (ESA). 11. PASOK - DIMAR Mr Andreas Loverdos to the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction on recruitment under the procedure referred to in Article 63 n.4430/2016. 12. PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information on ELTAs and the payment of public debts. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 1084/10-11-2016 of the Independent MEP, Mr. Theocharis Theocharis, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the possible risk of limitations on potential tax cases of political persons relating to the General Secretariat of Public Revenues, the Body of Prosecutors of Economic Crime and the lists of depositors abroad.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u5	Mr Nicholas, before you take the floor, I would like to ask Mr Constantinople to speak for one, two minutes, who wants to make an intervention, one comment. Here, Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor. If possible, as brief as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, for the past three, four months, I ask Mr. Tsakalotos to come to the House to talk to us about the investment of the Greek who voted for 80% of the House five months ago. At the same time, at the initiative of the Democratic Integration, we sent a letter to the President of the Parliament and to the Committees responsible for the production, trade and Morphic Affairs, with the signing of the New Democracy, the River and the Centroon Union, on the convergence of committees, so that the relevant ministers can inform us. The day before yesterday, during Mr Tsipras' debate with Mr Mitsotakis, I personally saw Mr Voutsi and told him that this cannot be continued, that is to say all the Members who need to come and not come to Parliament. Secondly, a minister cannot continue for four months not to come to the House to reply. I think it is not a personal offense to me alone, but it is against both the government and the Prime Minister and the ministers and the whole House. I cannot understand what I need to do so that Mr Tsakalotos can find the time to come to Parliament and answer that question. I would like to tell you here that the measures which the government will take - which are negotiating - are 2%, while Mr Tsakalots himself says that when the investment starts in the first year, it will give us 2% of GDP. Mr. Tsakalotos and the government say it. Please, you who are President-in-Office today, tell us - in the four parties which we have signed this letter to the President of the Parliament and to the chairmen of the relevant committees - what we need to do to get the ministers to inform the House at last. I ask you, and I would like an answer from you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u7	Mr Colleague, obviously my answer to this reasonable objection you have, you cannot get and be accurate. I can't give you that answer. I will just say to you that like you, I have a question today to Mr Tsakalotos, which is not debated for the fourth time. I just want to tell you that sometimes there are some issues on which there must be an understanding from all of us. Mr Tsakalotos, in other words, at this time - and I do not now want to justify or justify his absence - as you know very well, he has in his management a very big issue, which...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u8	Four months?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u9	I've been talking about the last time. I'm not talking about four months. I consider your point reasonable and it will also be transferred to the Conference of Presidents. I would ask, however, that we all have a relative understanding of some issues which are also a little objective. Mr Tsakalotos has been loaded on a big issue which is trying to manage, and so we must have a relative understanding. That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, last week we were told - and I want the ministers to hear it - by Mr Tsakalotou's office on Friday to come and answer our question. On Thursday night, he informed us - shortly before we saw him on the field - that due to a workload he went to Thessaloniki. And he, on Monday, has told us on Friday to come and answer. Mr President, I say this again: he indicated to us on Friday last week that he would come to answer not only my question but also the others. On Thursday, however, just before we saw him on the field, his office informed us he had a workload. And we understand what you said just a few months ago to have issues like the negotiation that he manages, etc. But I ask you this: last week he indicated to us and went to Thessaloniki, did he have a workload?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u11	All right, Mr. Comrade. Deal. The objection will be conveyed to the Conference of Presidents. But let us move on, because I have nothing more to say. First will the seventh question be discussed under number 545/28-2-2017, first question by the Independent Member of the Achaias Parliament, Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject of 'too many years why did they not find the guilty... while the Kaloudi finding refers the protagonists with names and addresses to the defendant's standalone? Mr. Nicolopoulou's question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Mr. Dimitrios Papagelopoulos. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, today's phrase of Vangelis Meimarakis, which is hosted throughout the press: 'Let the free witches stop', can also be applied to the timely question that we are discussing today, but also to the previous issue raised by my colleague from PASOK. When the Prime Minister himself comes at every opportunity in the Prime Minister's time and responds, the ministers and their Deputys can indeed show the diligence he needs, because through the emergence of these issues, I think the common objective and purpose is served. Today, then, this debate is coming at a time when the Prosecutor of the Ice Arrow said that the case of the media seashores and the parties with the Kaloudi conclusion should be associated. I saw before Mr Famello, who is now Minister, who was chairman of the Committee of Inquiry. So there we, the members of the committee, but also the Greeks and Greeks, monsters and signs. There we had the opportunity to have the infamous, infamous Kaloud event. Mr President, there was still in our hands and the way in which the prosecutors put this case in the file. A public prosecutor, a hero, would say - although co-pilots Samaras - Venizelos wanted to cover up the case and put three burning MPs in the province, who had nothing to do with it, to bring an amendment here and to acquit the scandals of those bank loans, which the Greek people have to pay today - resisted and reached the point in their finding to propose fifty, sixty indictees, former ministers, bank executives. And now we're doing free scars? Mr Minister, we have filed press reports - which we will present to you - so that no one will say, 'Oh, so you say it, so you have done it'. We moved into the institutions. The Christian-Democratic Party and many fellow citizens, who were watching my television show, came and signed and filed press reports on the Kaloude conclusion. And I have brought fifty questions to the House, to the extent that I am misunderstood by some Mr Kyatsakis and said, "Ah, a new fashion has been found." And that's what the retired Mr. Kyatsakis says, who while you voted not to be, you keep him. These are for free scars. "It is the new fashion..." - says - "...the State Secretary for Justice". You're a State Secretary, aren't you? I don't know. You're a State Secretary? Because for you he would probably say. So, today I came here to ask you: Who will look at this Kaloude conclusion? The same people who, within the Committee of Inquiry - listen, Mr President - accepted two children of the Bank of Greece, sent by Stournaras? He did the day before yesterday, says Stournara. Like we're not ashamed! Doesn't Stournara leave for free? So that Stournaras and the systemic banks bring the findings or the press reports, Mr. Minister, which we have tabled against Mr. Stournara. Because, and for Attica, he has responsibilities. Why now did Mr Stournaras take it? Checks are many years old. Why didn't he send it? Doesn't he have criminal responsibilities? Leave the policies. I'll also give you the letter we sent to Mr. Draghi and Mr. Stournara's press reports. So I come to the main question: When the prosecutors accepted two children of the Bank of Greece, sent by Mr Stournaras as inspectors, and - listen, Mr President -...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u13	There's just a second one.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u14	I'm done. Besides, we're on our own. So we can at least enjoy it. Mr President, then, two witnesses went to the prosecutor's office at 11 a.m. in the morning. Mr Papagelopoulos, listen to them, because you are also a judiciary, to tell me if they were to be yours. Mr Minister, Mr Skourletis, these two inspectors went to the Kaloudi conclusion and submitted before the prosecutor at the same time, at the same time, the same second and said the same thing. I, who am a Christian, if you now tell me to say 'I believe' - I am also a singer - may make no mistake. That's why you've seen that in the baptisms they read "I believe" so they won't be wrong. These two, Minister, have said the poem, they have said exactly the same. And do you accept being fooled, Mr. Papagelopoulos? I don't accept it either the Financial Prosecutor or them. So instead of moving around and saying, "With these testimonies, you're going back to file again?" you come and tell us to consider the Kaloudi's conclusion now. By who? From the same?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. You've been in five minutes. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Nicolopoulos, first of all, what you said, I, without doing for free magic, will make it clear that I honor and trust almost all the prosecutors and judges.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u17	There was also a misconduct, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u18	I said almost the whole thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u19	Because yesterday we had Mr. Asimakopoulou again last in the picnic.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u20	I am not the only one who could have been able to do this for the sake of previous solidarity. He had also stated in his speech that he has complete confidence in the financial prosecutors, as well as in all judicial officers, who respect their oath and in adverse conditions, do their part and duty, those who are not given up and are not being redeemed or under pressure. These, I repeat, are words of the Prime Minister. Now, the Kaloudi conclusion was written and it is an excellent job. I've known this prosecutor since he was a lot younger and the course seemed to be going off, and his finding is excellent. And then came the infamous amendment and in order to get the Kaloudis out of it, it was voted that night. I have said many times and I will say it again that this amendment for me is unconstitutional because it conceals amnesty. Already, the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay suspended the file and was enriched by the conclusion of the committee set up. I will repeat something that I have said before that unconstitutionalism is not judged by the prosecutors, but by the competent courts and by the notion. As for the other questions you ask in your question, which concern issues of preliminary examination, interrogation, it is clear that this is a secret. I am neither entitled to know nor ask for information on this. What I can do - and I did - is in the last paragraph, which you are asking whether the financial prosecutors and some publications will examine, because it may not have come to their senses, I have made sure that it is officially included in the file. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u21	Mr. Nicolopoulos, you have the floor for three minutes. I assume you've noticed that your question from prototype has been answered. So let's shorten it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u22	Well, there's Mr. Famelos. We're talking about the Kaloude conclusion, Mr. Famele.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u23	I heard you on TV.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u24	Yeah, yeah. Since we all respect them, of course, and that's why I also talked about the prosecutor. Mr. Kaloudi and Mr. Peponnes and many, for Mrs. Thanos, for Mrs. Demetriou and for how many more, unknown to me, who are heroic, indeed resist. But, Mr. Papagelopoulos, you're saying it out of your teeth, but I too in those thirty years that the Greek people have sent me here, I want to retain this privilege, to say it out of their teeth. Let me tell you, you haven't heard - and I'm going to testify, why will the President interrupt me and rightly - the most serious development in the Asimakopoulou case, as they said yesterday? It's the name of Panama papers. It is quite accidental, Mr President - and our fellow citizens are listening to us - that this is the last thing to happen! Totally random! So they haven't been discussed since the beginning. That's all it's done, isn't it? It's the only one that's done by the epidemic of the Holy Spirit, for the ones we believe in. That's not where it's done alone. Now listen to something else: we have tabled, as I have said, monthly reports. Because Mr Kyatsakis came and said that this is where the MPs are being blackmailed, asking questions and making press reports. It was about the beer case. Thirty million would get the public, huh? Yes, sir. And they kept it there in the Competition Committee, and as long as the weather was not paying, did they do that to pay less and said 'roughly it'? And what do you think happened? I also suggested witnesses, like a burner, Flora George, kind of like this. They filed it! Do you hear me, Minister? They didn't call any witnesses, Mr. Skourlet. I'm not law school. No witnesses! And they filed it! She's made a suggestion, she says, go to the D.A. You can't see that either? Don't see that either, Mr. Papagelopoulos. So just come and say. I do so, so that you do not say that you did not see it and tell me if it is done without calling witnesses for “NESTLE”, for “AMSTEL” for the contractor’s cartel, that all this is so in luck. Well, Mr. Papagelopoulos, it's just luck. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the Secretariat Department of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] I would therefore also like to present to you the press reports we have made to send it to the financial prosecutors too, since you have told us today that you do not know where this case is. Who? The census of citizens and a Member of Parliament, which says: gentlemen, is it not that and that it? Aren't all these rules broken? Mr. Famelos has said it. Doesn't anybody know? They know, Minister, very well. But you know what they say in the back? That you may, the government is at ease, not want - he says - to open it down. So they say, you know, for those you've got there and while they're doing them with papers, they do what they don't understand. They are, even for their special relationships with publishers, tax-payers and tax-payers. So, just so you know we all live in this village. It will be very important, then, to see how the Kaloude conclusion will end, unless, once again, we are unhappy to experience the humming of this great scandal, in order for the candidate to move his finger - he says - Prime Minister Yiannis Stournaras.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u26	Mr. Nicolopoulou, I must remind you that I am no longer a prosecutor, so that I have the right to open and close procedural proceedings. Therefore, what you consider is being done, in breach of the duties of the prosecutors, can be referred to the appropriate Public Prosecutor of the Ice Bay. I told you that the case-file exists and is in progress, but I am not, as Minister, entitled to know the contents of the statements and all the other documents available.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u27	Ask if you don't have a right to call witnesses? So, Stournara was summoned? But if they didn't call Stournara, who will they call the neighborhood grocery store?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u28	It is not within the competence of every Minister of Justice and the Deputy against the Corruption to monitor the proceedings. There's an Attorney...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u29	No, to ask, we said, to tell us, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u30	There's a district attorney. First of all, the issues you raised in your dentistry are not included in your question. But I can tell you that for everything you think is contrary to legality you can refer to the Attorney of the Ice Bay or to the President of the Ice Bay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u31	For identical statements, shouldn't you know?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Minister. The sixth question, under number 483/14-2-2017, of the Independent Member of the Achaias Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, will be discussed at the end of the debate on the dispute between the State committees and the judiciary and the new jury of Andreas Martin from Korydallos. The Deputy Minister, Mr Papagelopoulos, will again reply. Mr. Nicolopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u33	He's right about Meymarakis, who says, "Let go the free scars," he's right. They don't know here. For the identical statements, Papaggelopoulos does everything he doesn't know, Mr. Famele. I will now testify to him here to tell the boys down there: "Oh, lads, two identical guys, and you didn't send them to the D.A.? You've been fooled!' Or the D.A.? At exactly 11 o'clock they swore two and said the same, the same time, the same day, in the same time? Well, Minister, I have to do this job as well. I will do so and let Mr Kyatsakis or Mr Alfouzos, who, Minister, has asked me for 250,000 euros. I sent a letter here and to Mr Famello and to the Minister. He made his threat, Mr. Famele. Asks for 250,000 euros by lawsuit, why? Because I'm asking questions, Mr. Alafuzos says. The same comes for the others, because they're controlled. We're coming to Mr. Martin's. Mr. Martinis has issued, he says, a sworn statement from the Koydallus, Mr. President, and he says the names of Ministers. And here we do what we don't understand, we whistle indifferently! Well, if you don't understand, I've brought this juror, as it came to me in the e-mail and if it's "a monkey", you say "a fake," it's "a monkey" and if it's not "a monkey" and if it's not "a monkey", here it will be filed in the Minutes, and I will have done my duty to see what the late Minister of Health is, see which health ministers, as he says, blackmailed him, see how such a big asset, like Henry Dynan Hospital, has come into the hands of a bank. Can he say spoonfuls? Maybe. He might want to take them with him now that he's in jail? Maybe. I for Martin, Minister, as for all, have tabled over seventy questions since the time of Costas Karamanlis, when on the board of the Red Cross there were mothers and women of the New Democracy, and every time I was one foot in the disciplinary board. I didn't wake up today and shout. I would like to believe, however, that your own government and you personally, Mr Papagelopoulos, have not come for a career and that is why you see me in this tone address these questions to you. Because you won't have his alibi 'I didn't know', you know it all very well, unless you say you don't want to break eggs. So I ask you this: is it true? Has such a sworn statement been made by Mr. Martine, involving political persons, involving bankers and, here, dealing with the public interest? And if it is true, Minister - I imagine you have come to read - you will tell us what the result is, what action is taken following these complaints. Has justice called the ones he denounced? He still speaks - and I stop with that - about a classified memorandum - a classified memorandum! - which was signed - and did not see the light of publicity, Mr President - between Henry Dunn and a bank. And he said - he said - the Minister of Health at that time, Mr Adonis Georgiadis, the current Vice-President: 'This is classified'. This privilege we want you to bring it to the House. What's classified? Is that a private case? Who's paying for all this, Mr. Papagelopoulos? First of all, I am waiting for your answer, so that I can say the rest in my denunciation. First, however, I would like to testify to Mr Martin's oath, to see if she is true or false.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u34	Good, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u35	Mr Nicolopoulos also raised a number of other issues. In the timely question I have the questions, there are other questions. Of course, I will respond to what he has set out today. As I have been informed by the competent judicial authorities, a preliminary examination is being carried out of Mr Martin's complaint. If there are responsibilities, they will be attributed, and if there are responsibilities for political people, the legal procedure will be followed. The question whether it is legitimate to defend multinational companies, etc., I have to answer that the exercise - which is the text of the current - defence duties, by the persons mentioned by the honourable Member, is provided for by the legislation. So it's legal. Of course the question arises here, which Mr Nicholas also insinuates, whether legality is legitimate and moral. Here I would appeal to Cad, who had said that "the morality must disperse the law and does not match the law". As for me, I will invoke my personal history, when I resigned from a judicial officer a few years ago, to take up some other duties, when I was early to end my duties, and while the law was provided for either returning to the judiciary or bringing legal proceedings, I obeying my personal moral code, and I returned to justice - even though I had the legal right - nor did I rule because I respected my old colleagues. I preferred to retire to the countryside and enjoy the tune of the forest and a lacy beggar. And that's what I'll do again, if I have to. I think I answered you about morality and legality.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u36	Mr. Nicolopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u37	Minister, now what can I tell you? I don't think flattery fits, but your life is all known to me. But today we're here to name names. Mr. Kyritsakis - you know, I'm writing it to you, but I saw that you don't want to say names - they were the ones who opened the ferry to "Chrikos Dynan", because - listen to it and the Greeks too - made decisions where they could change the will of the legacy. Do you hear that, Minister? Sure! So the festival and the trick began, the industry on the Red Cross. The casserole was dying, the late man left his property in favour of the deprived corpses and a Mr. Kyatsakis came and made a decision. I was looking at Mr. Mitsotakis on Mount Athos the other day and had Mr. Pikrammenos next to him. Mr. Pikrammenos didn't do what you did. After finishing his career as President of the Supreme Court, after the state made him an official Prime Minister, he went with our children to get permission to practice the referee profession. Look at that! Cojam Prime Minister! And what case did he fall, you say, Mr. Skourlet? This one over there with "ERGOSE". You have done as SYRIZA and I again as independent and as a neo-democratic two hundred questions. There in the "ERGOSE" tunnels have eaten, Bobolas, ACTORS etc. And they had an arbitration. And who was the referee between pimps, contractors and the Greek public? Mr. Pikramenos. And what did the referee get out? Well, the right thing to do is to get the man out. He got to pay for the Greeks. Do you hear that? And now you, Mr. Papagelopoulos, come here and tell me about charts! These, then, you hold them, you remorse them, you are ashamed to say their names. And now what came out of this question today? Did something come out? I didn't expect to hear anything else 30 years in here, but even the fact that they are annoyed and that, after thirty years of experience, I also tasted that one, saying that it is impossible to ask questions here and control them for the public interest, is something. Another retired judiciary go to the president of the PSE, think he's independent and make a white strike. Why? Because it says 'I want all my pensions, me and my colleagues'. And the others don't want all of their pensions that they want to work on? He says no! "We, because we're blackmailing you now, because we're not taking the licenses off, we're making a white strike, we're not running a board," he says - Mr. Ministers. And what did you do? One amendment here says that they are excluded from the other Greeks. They - he says - have expenses. What costs do these independent retired judges have, Mr Papagelopoulos, who must also receive all pensions and compensation? That's why we're here, Mr. Papagelopoulos. But since we know that we can't go back and see all those people, who already until the day before yesterday, thought that we were going to elections, and the gang was about to go back with the Babies, with the Silvers, with all these people, Mr. Papagelopoulos, know all about them. So I will tell you, for the Minutes, not for you, for those who want to enter the Minutes, what the sites only wrote yesterday. Don't go every day. "There is no limit to the hypocrisy of Giannis Stournaras, who, instead of dealing with the 98.5% of the Greek banking system, which had been spreading for decades, dealt with Attica, which has 1.5% of the market for up-to-date loans." I'm filing it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u38	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u39	I shall conclude, Mr President. ...for loans that are not penal responsibilities, Minister, for all of them, do you know why they're still on the table and have a great time? Because they still live in their posts, because you still don't dare move, because politically we all know and the Greek people have answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u41	I would remind you that the move of criminal prosecution is not carried out by the government, but by the competent prosecutors. All the information Mr Nicholas says, in which I must say that I agree with everything that he says, if any, is happening, there are competent bodies which need to be moved. It's not about any minister moving criminal proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u42	Sending them is your obligation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the Deputy of State Mrs. Niki Kerameos is requesting a short-day absence from abroad from 22 March to 27 March 2017. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u44	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Subsequently under number 539/28-2-2017, the first question of the first cycle of the Parliamentary Chania Coalition of the Radical Left, Evangelia Vagonakis, to the Minister of the Interior, on the provision of exceptional financial support to OTAs in the Regional Unit of Chania for the restoration of disasters due to the extreme weather phenomena of February 11, 2017. Mr. Vagonakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you know that on 11 February this year, Chania Prefecture suffered a great deal of damage because of the extreme weather phenomena, intense rainfall, which had a long time and created flooding phenomena. Much of the road infrastructure was destroyed, water supply and sewerage infrastructure was destroyed in the network and it is characteristic that in an area with most problems, i.e. the Municipal Unit of the Municipality of Platania, entire km of roads have disappeared. I would like to say that this Municipal Unit of Kolymbari, like the entire Municipality of Apokoronou, has been designated as areas in exceptional circumstances on the island of Crete. I would add to all this great disaster suffered by a historic monument of Chania - I have not put it in the question, but it is important - that it concerns the bastion of Agios Dimitrios, which is at the southwestern end of the Venetian fortifications of the old city. It has survived centuries, but this has also suffered very great catastrophes, perhaps the biggest of all these years. For these issues, as in other ministries, relatively technical notes have been submitted to you from both Platania and Apokoronos and Chania, the amount of which, from what I have added at least, is estimated to exceed 7 million. I know, Minister, that you are not the only ones responsible for treating these issues. There are other consensual ministries. But you as a Ministry which may coordinate as an expedited Ministry, I would like to ask you what financial assistance measures are to be taken in the near future to enable full recovery of damages to the infrastructures of Chania, especially in the areas of emergency, secondly, what is the intention of your Ministry intending to do in order to pay the municipalities the funds necessary to pay for the construction or equipment of the affected families and businesses, as they have been established by the responsible tiers of autopsy and, finally, if you intend to initiate the procedures in order to declare the local communities affected by flooding.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, Mrs Vayonakis, I think the extreme phenomena that the region mentioned by the Municipality of Chania on 11/2 will be recorded in the history of meteorology as something particularly intense - there is no precedent - so that we have the corresponding impact on road infrastructure on fixed capital. Each time dealing with such situations is related to the following, as quickly as possible coordination of the relevant ministries, and here, as appropriate, several ministries are involved. I think that those procedures have been initiated so that the corresponding compensation can be paid. First of all, there is the issue which is the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour and Social Security for the floods, and this requires, of course, the setting-up of committees by the responsible mayors so that they can record, gather the necessary documents and send them to the Ministry and then carry out the compensation. As far as I know, this is en route. Regarding the buildings, it is responsible for the Rehabilitation of Natural Disasters of the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of Finance, in consultation with the Region of Crete and the Ministry of Finance. After such registration, the joint Ministerial Decision of the Ministries concerned will be adopted in order to reintroduce the compensation provided for. And that moves as planned. For animal and vegetable capital, I know that the announcements to ELGA Heraklion have been made so that those who were affected in the State Aid Grant Scheme can be included. But beyond that, I would like to refer to what is directly related to the Ministry of the Interior, for which I have a better picture. For the Prefecture of Chania, the years 2015-2016 have been allocated for damages that had occurred in previous years, 520,000 euros. In particular, 270,000 euros have been approved for the Municipality of Platania. However, only EUR 47,250 have been absorbed. Because, although the funds are approved by the Ministry, there must also be the respective absorption, which is the responsibility of the respective municipalities, that is to say they must bear the relevant documents, etc. And unfortunately there are some such cases where, while we approve of the little money we have - they are not infinitely - there is no corresponding absorption. For the Municipality of Apokoronos, as far as I know, the request has been sent on February 14th. Because in order for this money to be approved and given, in any case, there must be a corresponding request. In other words, I see sometimes in various cases municipalities who say 'why did you not give us too?' We're not going to knock on the door in every municipality. Obviously, each municipality records damages and submits requests. So the request from the Municipality of Apokoronos will be addressed in the next few days and I think that the money will be given accordingly. I am not currently aware of the total amount requested by the municipality, but obviously there will be an amount which will, at least in the first instance, satisfy the needs. Finally, on the occasion of your question, I would like to say that from November 2016 until today - and I say this because, perhaps for the first time, the state mechanism has responded so quickly, and that is not only us, but also the mayors - there have been sixty decisions to strengthen municipalities from natural disasters with a total amount committed, EUR 4,165 000. There is no precedent for such a rapid response from the Ministry of the Interior to such situations. At the same time, for damages relating to issues within the Leipzig Fund, which concern water networks, etc., there have been decisions on twenty-four municipalities, which respond to a sum of EUR 475 000.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Vagonakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u49	I will make two remarks, as I am in the Committee on the Environment and I understand very well that as long as there is a problem with the environment, as long as we do not deal with the problems as we should, the more they will have a greater density in the future. Also, from what you said, Minister, and I am pleased that, since these funds are being given very quickly, there will also be a response to the demands made by the first and second degrees of OTAs in Chania. I do not know what has happened in the past, but from the technical notes which I have in mind and which I will present to you - I have them in paper and electronic form - I know very well that so far the municipalities have responded and have made requests not only to your Ministry but also to the Ministry of Labour. On this occasion I would like to say that I consider it necessary at least, since it is not too much, to these about thirty-five families who have been registered with the Ministry of Labour and who are calling for this EUR 580 emergency aid - I do not remember exactly how much it is - to give this amount immediately, in order to relieve these families. Secondly, you did not reply to my request, whether these communities can be declared any more, which are not too many, flooded, so that the inhabitants of these regions have the corresponding benefits that they have in these cases all the regions affected. And thirdly, let me tell you that in these requests that have come to you the request from the Municipality of Chania has not come, which concerns the Patron of Agios Dimitrios. The reason is not that they have not made progress, but these issues must be discussed in cooperation with the Ministry of Culture and the Archaeological Service. And it is being prepared - as far as I know - because, firstly, there is a need for a study on this issue - because in the past there have been problems - so that there are no problems on this basis and, secondly, immediately - and this will come, I imagine, as a request - there must be some monument support projects to ensure that there are no further damages and that there can be a safe arrival of pedestrians and wheels from this particular point, which you might also know, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Vagonakis. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Vagonakis, I repeat that every time there is a request for this to be made first of all for the areas which are declared in an emergency, and that has been done for the two municipalities you are referring to. I do not understand whether there is a request for other areas. That's not clear to me, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u52	For those areas, for the flooders.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u53	Yeah, obviously. However, as far as I know - and I mentioned it before - the relief procedures for the people who have been designated in those areas as flooders have already been adopted and the request has been sent to the Ministry of Labour and things are moving, as foreseen. That's what I know. This is the briefing I have from the respective Ministry of Labour. After all, as you have rightly said, the Ministry of Interior has a horizontal responsibility and is trying to coordinate with the relevant ministries to promote a number of similar requests, beyond the two cases that I have told you, where we have our own - let us say that - a special account to deal with the natural disasters and the problems of water shortages. From there on, I think that, as in other cases, we will be able to use the means we have in the best possible way and as soon as possible, because you know that the result is related to the response time. The sooner you make use of the means you have in the end, the more beneficial it is for the flooders themselves, but also for the system to respond as a whole to such situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Minister. Mr Skourletis and Mrs Vageias, should we wait until Mr Javarras' question has been answered and answered before yours, but was he not here before?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u55	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u56	Therefore, the fourteenth question under number 503/20-2-2017, the new Republic's MP, Mr. Konstantinos Javara, will be discussed now with the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the automatic correction of administrative errors in the raised forest maps of Elias. The question will be answered by Mr Socrates Famelos, Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy. Here, Mr. Javarra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. There is a big issue - and everyone knows that, I suppose, too - with the suspension and the procedure towards the finalisation of forest maps. There is social disruption in all areas where these maps have been posted, because there are daily large omissions, erroneous entries to such an extent and so that the property which they have and have the status of agricultural real estate is to appear as forest land or other form of land on which, under Article 3 of the Forest Code, forestry legislation is applied. But here, with this question, I would like you, Minister, to take a position on a very reasonable question. On the basis of the provision of Article 13 of Law 3889/1910, as amended by Law 4389/2016, in the case where the drawing up of forest maps is entrusted to a private office, the Forest Administrations are obliged to supervise the work on the spot, to control the entire spectrum until it is delivered, with a view to ensuring that there are no errors, omissions, false entries. At the same time these mistakes and wrong entries concern the exact registration of real estate for which either the administration decides to grant private individuals, whether they are in reafforestation, or residential areas. In the case of the forest maps of the Regional Unit of Elias, unfortunately, although from 15 July the delivery of the maps has been considered and on the body of the maps the reservation of the Directorate for Forests of Elias that if it is found during the posting of the maps such a case of mistakes or false entries, then the recommendation will be made in order to raise objections from the public in the context of the procedure laid down for correction, but until now nothing has been done. The question that is reasonable, justified and perfectly legitimate for any citizen who faces the legal extinction of his property, due to mistakes and omissions, for which the administration was responsible, is as follows. Will you take any measures which will trigger these procedures from the public in order to automatically correct the errors and in this sense to relieve them of the costs involved in such a procedure, namely the payment of the special fee and the payment of fees for the preparation of the necessary paperwork? Of course, I have already been aware that since 22 February you have responded to the request for the automatic separation of rural areas which were included in the resurrected areas declared after the fires in 2007. I therefore believe that you have already shown the way, so it is only up to you to complete this specific procedure with a view to the right of self-righteously affected interests.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Javarra, thank you very much for the opportunity to discuss forest maps once again. You will also allow me to answer on the substance of the matter, but also to raise more general questions. It must be stated for once - and I want to have a common starting point - that forest maps are an important, development and environmental tool for our country. It is the necessary base, the necessary infrastructure to develop and complete the National Land register, for there to be spatial and spatial planning, to have the tariff. You probably know, since you have a parliamentary experience greater than my own, it has been a permanent matter of discussion throughout the entire republic and it has affected legal science and the issues of the Moroccan Peninsulas, the issues of ownership, but also forest policy, because forty years, no government has been applying anything since 1976 to Law 248/1976, namely the registration of forests, and it has been a constitutional requirement in 1975. Now, for the first time, a government has dared and tried to post and discuss 35% of our country's region. I know that recently on your side, Mr Javarra, the sector leader Mr Skrekas said that the issue of forest maps is undoubtedly an important element for the development of the country. If this is our common basis, that is to say, if we have an agreement between the political forces and at least us that we are discussing, I would like to comment on a curious, if you would like, a debate, a concerted reaction which, as a request from the public, puts forward in the public area, the failure to implement the institution of forest maps, the annulment, suspension and the 'false' of the procedure in the direction of non-implementation. This is something that you will find us and you will find me against, but I would also like your opinion. In something that should have been over for years, we should not be delayed, because it is difficult to do so. What is pointing out, Mr Javarra, the suspension of forest maps is not the problem created by forest maps, because they demonstrate an administration that has not implemented the legislation so far. Because the obvious mistakes of the administration, which you described, are not mistakes of the citizens, nor are they obviously mistakes of the SYRIZA, the ANELs and the Greens who now have the responsibility of the administration. At the same time, it turns out to be a violation of rules, a violation of areas, unlicensed evacuations, arbitrary construction and stranding at various levels. This demonstrates the suspension of forest maps and the emergence means that we must call on and do the work of resolving them together, but not back to imprinting normality and legality in space and nature and agricultural production and construction. Clearly, the technical problems identified are also omissions by the administration - I agree with you - and wrong characterisation many times. However, Mr Javarra, unless the suspension is done and the objections are not raised and every citizen is not expressed in terms of his or her property and in the nature of his or her land, this settlement and the imprinting of legality will never be made. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] That is why I will say first - and let me say, Mr President - that in the Ministerial Decision of February 2017, for the first time, we have chosen and established that the citizen is not charged, that the objections to the issues that are in the areas of polluting, settlements, final deeds or pendulums are incomplete, which was not there. Therefore, the citizen is guaranteed no cost - because you have referred to possible costs for the citizen. At the same time, we have sent to all the municipalities of Greece, along with the publication of the law at the FEK, and multiple letters to introduce the plumbing plans, the implementation actions, the boundaries of settlements and the settlements, to protect the residential area. Since we also have the happy occasion for the Minister of Home Affairs to be here, I must say that from the ATTs in Greece only 30% sent this information to the Stock Exchange and it is not the property, property and residence to the rest of 70% and not under the responsibility of the government and the state. In order to go beyond this, Mr Javarra, we have another circular that you have not mentioned, and I may mention it as well as the citizens. We give the register the possibility of posting the settlement limits, even though the TATs have not sent them. Because, at the same time, many rural areas are included in wider reservoirs - you are right - we have already published a circular which calls for the services to have the provision 44 of Law 998, i.e. to identify the multi-angles of rural areas within the reservoirs, which existed before the afforestation, and which do not need to be within the reservoir scope. The normality of the development of agricultural farming is an obligation for forest masters and coordinators of decentralised administrations, which you have rightly said have done so. At the same time, Mr Javarra, and on the occasion of this debate I must tell you that, indeed, there are manifest errors outside the resurrected people, that is, mistakes in the forest maps. There is already a circular on our part, which commands the administration to correct these obvious errors in the maps so that, if you like, we can overcome the problems that have escaped the attention of the administration. I must admit, as you have said, that the maps prepared by private offices have been considered by the forest directorates and office offices, so first of all they have completed the check at first stage and have escaped some mistakes. In these cases, therefore, the obvious errors are also directed by a circular similar to that of the resurrected ones, so that it is done under the responsibility of the administration and at no cost to the citizen, which is our duty to do in any case.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u60	Minister, the rest in your dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u61	I'm going to continue on secondary. I think that the first part of the motion for a resolution is the cylindrical order.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u62	Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u63	Of course, Mr Minister, I will have no objection to the fact that on the occasion of my question you have found the opportunity to spend on generalities which also have the character of communism. Of course forest maps have been an infrastructure element, and of course they have been a developmental direction, but, of course, the fact that the "National Creature and Creation S.A." has been trying to give us landmarking for decades and so far there is only 7% mapped, is another long story I do not want to talk about in this question. Of course, I am in no way obliged to apologize for all the pathogens and all the ideas that this whole story can bring. So, with the question I have focused on a specific subject where from the last paragraph, at least, of your position, I understand that you are probably in agreement with me. It is unfair - and I stress this - that the citizen is obliged not only to pay - that in some cases you have exempted him - but also to suffer the suffering of going to the appropriate offices, to submit objections, to recruit technical consultants, to pay them. All this suffering arises in order to pay the cost of the recovery of errors, omissions, false entries on the forest maps, for the restoration of which responsibility, on the basis of the law - and my question mentions the provision in particular, is the provision of Article 13 of Law 3889/2010 - which is the responsibility of the administration. In the case of the Regional Unit of Elias itself, the Forest address itself has been reserved and says: If during the suspension - already during the suspension, it has begun on 13 January and ends on 23 March - it is found that errors - and every day it is found that they have liberated such mistakes - the state mechanism must be mobilised in order to relieve the citizens of burden and suffering. I believe that any government, however democratic it is or is not, should at least be involved in matters relating to good administration and the protection of the legitimately protected interests of the citizens, so that this suffering does not exist. What you did - and I mentioned - on 22 February, of course, you did it because there was no other way of getting it restored, because, as you know, as far as the areas that have been declared to be resurrected under the law and published in the Official Journal of the Government are concerned, this very act of administration cannot be corrected by the expression of specific objections. That is why you applied for the assistance of Article 44(4) of the Forest Code, which provides for the withdrawal or withdrawal - in this case the withdrawal - of the administrative act. I would therefore ask you to take care, because I know your sensitivity, because you have served from what I know and in positions of responsibility for local government agencies. I would like to mention the case of the mayor of Pineion who complains that, while he still had a deadline to meet these obligations regarding the registration of forest maps with regard to the boundaries of the settlements, the process has been going on so far without the municipality having completed this particular deadline.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u64	But he's responsible for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u65	So you realise that these cases are equitable and responsible, which I think you have, you should prevent them. I want to help, and that's why I'm asking, I'm not asking a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-four students and students and three educational attendants from the Erasmio Hellenic-German School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Dear students and students, you have come in an hour when parliamentary control is carried out in Parliament. Members of Parliament on matters of interest to them ask the ministers to whom these matters belong. Now New Democracy MP Mr. Javaras asks the Minister, Mr. Famello, on issues relating to the Forest Land of Elias and the Minister's answer. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u67	Well, to say good-bye to the students who are here with us, that the process of your question, Mr Javarra, can compose and give a common result, because that is what we are interested in. I repeat that you are right about resurrectors, that this is how it should be done. Here it is good to announce that there will also be legislation to shield it further. We'll do that. At the same time, I told you that there would be a circular for the mistakes of the administration and corresponding regulation. All of this is excluded from the fee by our own decisions, so that there is no charge. Also, it is important to say that in the same law you mentioned, Mr.3889/2010, there is an explicit provision in Article 20, which says that administrative acts that indicate a legal exception to the provisions of civil law are reflected in the forest map and after its ratification. So the administration has to solve the problems at the same time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u68	That's another case.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u69	What I wanted to tell you in the most comprehensive response is that we have to agree that it is necessary to do everything possible to solve problems that may exist either on the ground - that is, on the earth - or on the actions, in order to force everyone because the administration or the citizen is not responsible for delays in the OTA. However, I would like to inform you that I have also requested my participation in the CEDEFOP Management Board, because we need to resolve the problem. We signed another circular to the Stock Exchange, which says that even late enough to bring the limits, to incorporate them. However, the timeframe for the OTAs has passed. I would like to say on this occasion that we should also take legislative steps to ensure and support rural activity as a whole in its relationship with the forest ecosystem. In other words, all evacuations and change of use must be settled now, taken into account in a map and the time taken to examine the objections that are sufficient, more than sixty days that we have given for the suspension to resolve all this. Finally, there must be a background for the country where forests and farming are printed, but at the same time there must be no question of farmers' subsidies and an organization in the area we all need. What I'm trying to say is that, with our own interventions - let me say it - beyond the circulars I've already mentioned...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u70	You rule.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u71	Yes, but it was not something that had happened in previous years, because there was also the cost of objections. To give you an example, in the case of the smallest objection to the citizen, it was EUR 50 and we did 10, because it is indeed necessary to ensure that the citizen has access to the expression of the objection and not to be suspended at a cost. Of course, we also need to remind public administration of what it needs to do and politically help with the resurrected, infractions, administrative errors, the boundaries of settlements, because here we are going to go ahead with an entire system of administrative and economic production that is necessary for the country's reconstruction and we all need it. Well, that's it. We're trying to do it. Thank you very much for feeding this debate, because we are in the same direction. We will continue - and this is a commitment - next week and by legislative shielding these interventions, because there may have to be strong public functions in order to restore legality in the rural area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the educational programme of the "Democracy Workshop" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, seventeen students and students and a teacher from the 14th Municipal School of Ilion. The House welcomes them. Subsequently under the number 512/21-2-2017, the eleventh time question for the second-round question of the Member of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Anna Vageias to the Minister of the Interior on the establishment - operation of the Dead Incineration Center (KAN) on behalf of the primary local authorities. Here you go, Mrs. Vaguea, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. Historical and ethnographic research confirms that the burial practice of cremation of the dead beyond the building of tombs - the burial of the dead body has responded in Greece since ancient times. Characteristics are the reports of Homeric epics, as well as the archaeological findings of veils, larns and other burial objects. Following the prevalence of Christianity in the Greek area, the burial was imposed on cremation. The first moves to restore incineration refer to the years 1912-1917. Finally, only in the 1980s, Greek society begins to review its established views on the issue of this burial practice. Subsequently, pursuant to Article 35 of Law 3448/2006 and the relevant implementing legislation, incineration was authorised within the Greek legal order and the first power to administer the Dead Incineration Incineration Centres (CAN) was conferred on the municipalities. However, until the adoption of Article 92 of Law No.4368/2016, all the relevant provisions remained void. Subsequently, the adoption of the regulatory administrative acts on environmental conditions for the establishment of the DAN provided for the first time an integrated and operational framework for the commencement of the activity of incinerators in Greece. In accordance with the current legislative framework, the establishment and operation of incinerators has been solely the responsibility of the municipalities or legal entities governed by public law which they may establish, In the recent past, several municipalities such as Athenians, Thessaloniki, Volos, Markopoulos and others have tried to establish incinerator, but their efforts have not been successful because of the intense reaction of church authorities and pressure groups of local societies. As a result of all this, the only solution for anyone who wishes to be cremated after death is the mission of the remains abroad, with the nearest space available to be located in Sofia, Bulgaria. However, such a choice to move abroad leads to a major economic - around 3,000 euros - emotional and mental burden, while it does not exclude the possibility that the deceased's victims of human pain exploitation, especially in view of the fact that they have to manage one of the most difficult moments in their lives within the limits of foreign legal order and communication in a language and spatial context that they do not understand, with private incinerators, who have a speculative activity. Since the choice of incineration as a burial practice is now entirely legitimate, its non-implementation does not infringe constitutionally guaranteed rights, both of the deceased and of the remainder of the person's personality, since he has expressed his wish to incinerate at the time he was alive. Is this why the Minister of Home Affairs asked what stage is the implementation of these legislation on the establishment, operation and operation of the JVs and what concrete and positive measures he intends to take with a view to promoting, facilitating and supporting their establishment and start-up? Thanks for the time, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Bagena, with your question you raise a very important issue and, I would say, constantly timely. As a state you know that we need to recognize the individual right of choice in the type of funeral ceremony. That's true for everyone. It must be guaranteed for anyone. In this context, this possibility has been made possible, the safeguarding of this right by the law you mentioned, and by the law that you mentioned, Mr.4368/2016, under Article 15, a legislative initiative on the days of the current government. While there had been since 2006, under Article 35(1), the possibility for the municipalities of first grade within administrative areas and outside their administrative limits to be able to establish centres of incineration of the deceased. Also, issues relating to the environmental nature of these arrangements were resolved at this time and there was the political decision on 7 October 2015 - it was me at the Ministry of Energy and the Environment and I had signed this decision - which allows for the establishment and operation of the deceased incineration centres. On 15 February of this year, a Joint Ministerial Decision of the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Energy and the Environment and the Ministry of Finance was signed, in detail, on the possibility of establishing and operating bone incineration centres within existing cemeteries. What image do these form? We have shaped a complete framework and the possibility for the municipalities, if they so wish - and I think they have this obligation, it is not a matter of desire, it is a matter of obligation to those who recognize the individual right to choose in the way of their funeral ceremony - to set up incineration centres for the dead. The question is what prevents municipalities at the moment? Who stand against this individual right? We know that there are such killing forces within Greek society. I believe that there must be a front for all the progressive people who recognise this right to create these appropriate pressure conditions to do so. I would also like to say that in the intentions of the Interior Ministry, in trying to push even more to make it possible to establish the incineration centres of the dead, it is to give private individuals that possibility. If the municipalities do not realize that they have the task of doing so, we will not ban it from them, but we will also give it to individuals. A similar legislative initiative will soon come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Minister. Madam Bajas, before your dentistry, I would like to tell you that all colleagues are with you and with you at this stage of your life. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. I want to tell you that I know and thank you. When we were in the office in Sofia and we waited, I will never forget - you know I had a recent experience with this - the way a young boy, a Bulgarian who stood next door, embraced and took with him the deluge with the ashes of his loved one. It's a great comfort. So I hope that some mayors, some private individuals, will find the power to clash with this darkness. We can't have middle ages here. The Bulgarians aren't religious? In fact, as a people they have a deep religious feeling, which we know very well. We cannot suffer this darkness here, this middle-aged, and resort to Bulgaria. I want to assure you - and I don't know if that matters to some people - that it has nothing to do with the deep religious sense. I've spent all this hard time, but even now I'm praying every day and making my cross in Virgin Mary. If that's what he says about some people! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, my colleague. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u79	Mrs Bajas, as the current Minister for the Interior, I would like to tell you personally that we are joining our voices with yours. I think it is an obligation of the current government and not just because there is a wide-ranging front in the Greek society that it thinks that this individual right to choose the type of funeral should finally be safeguarded and acted. Once again, I would like to add that it is our commitment - which we will implement - to do what is necessary to extend this possibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the sixth question under number 532/24-2-2017, first question by MP II, Piraeus, of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, concerning the "volume of urban transport", will not be answered due to a sudden illness of the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport Mr. Spirtzi. Also, the 2522/11-1-2017 report - question of the Athens MP Mr. Kostis Hatzidakis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject of “automatic pilot” the urban transport of Athens. A large reduction in revenue and a widening of deficits will not be discussed because of the same reason. Furthermore, the fourth question under number 482/14-2-2017 of the second question by the Member of Parliament of the Republican Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the extension of the right to full insurance for workers, the unemployed and the professionals, will not be discussed due to the absence of the State Secretary responsible abroad. Mr Anastasios Petropoulos is in Brussels. In addition, they will not be discussed as a result of an impediment to the relevant ministers and will be redefined for discussion: The second question under number 534/24-2-2017, first question by the Member of Parliament, Mr Athanasios Davakis, to the Minister of Health, concerning the weakening of the Centre for Health of the Municipality of Sparta, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos. The third, with number 530/24-2-2017, is a top-stage question for Evvoias MEP - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Michou to Minister for Rural Development and Food on "the retention of part of the OPEKEPE subsidies due to the inability to contribute to the GEOB", and it will also not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr.Evangelos Apostolos. The fourth question under number 538/24-2-2017 of the First Cycle of the Parliamentary Drama of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARMAR Kefalidou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject of "in the air the task of extending the National Gallery", will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister of Culture and Sports Mr. Lydias Konordou. The first time under number 535/24-2-2017, a second time question by MP Evros of the New Democracy, Anastasios (Tasos) Treasury to the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, on the establishment of a Port Academy in Alexandroupolis, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy Mr Panagiotis Kourublis. The second question under number 531/24-2-2017 of the PASOK Democratic Incorporation - DIMAR Mr. Odyssey Constantinople to the Minister of Economy and Development, concerning the integration of sewerage networks and sewerage treatment projects Konnovazina, Levidi and Kallianios Arcadias, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development, Alexandros Haritsis. The third, with number 479/14-2-2017, topical question by Evia MEP - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Michou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the charging of marine ecosystems in the Mediterranean with radioactive waste, will not be discussed due to a blockade by the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy Mr. Socrates Famelou. The fifth, under number 480/14-2-2017, topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the permits of substitute teachers, will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou. The twelfth under number 504/20-2-2017 topical question by the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Papapas to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on "the fulfilment of the Order of the Nation", will also not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Education, Research and Religion Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou. The seventh question under number 452/6-2-2017, the second question from the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Ilias Kasidiaris, to the Minister of Finance, on the "Chipras - Rothschild Investment Bank and the involvement of the Rothschild family in the economic life of Greece", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance, Mr.Eklidis Tsakalotou. The eighth Question No 414/30-1-2017 topical question by the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odyssea Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance, on the information about the stage of the process of implementing the investment at the former airport of Greece, will also not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Finance, Euklidis Tsakalotou. The ninth under number 409/30-1-2017 a topical question by MP II Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Finance on the sale of the "National Insurance", will also not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance Mr.Euklidis Tsakalotos. The tenth under number 400/27-1-2017 topical question by Z Vice-President of the Parliament and Deputy of Athens, Mr. Spyridonos Lykoudis, to the Minister of Finance, concerning untreated properties for which the public pays high rents, will also not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance, Mr. Euklidis Tsakalotou. The 15th question, with number 513/21-2-2017, of the second question of the Athens Parliamentary II of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the reconstructing of the Labour Housing and Labour Housing Organisations, will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr.Happiness Ahtsoglou. The fifth question under number 543/28-2-2017, first question by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the recognition of a service at ERT S.A. for the officials of Presidential Decree 164/2006, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information Mr Nicholas Pappas. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers of National Defence, Finance, Foreign Affairs, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights and the Deputy Minister of National Defence have tabled drafts of law on 3-3-2017: 1. "Structuring of the Technical Arrangement between the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Poland and the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic for the Support of a Reception Country for the implementation of training cooperation between the Polish Air Force and the Hellenic Air Force in the Hellenic Republic." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. "Privatization of the technical arrangement between the Swedish Armed Forces and the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic for the Cooperation of the Swedish Armed Forces with the Hellenic Navy in the Sector of Exchanging and Training of Special Forces". 3. ‘Preparation of the Military Cooperation Agreement between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Armenia’. They shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Monday, 9 January 2017 and 12 January 2017 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u81	The minutes of Monday 9 January 2017 and Thursday 12 January 2017 were therefore validated. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-03-S1-commons.u82	With the agreement of the House at 11.40 p.m., the sitting on Monday, March 6, 2017, at 17.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: according to the agenda distributed and (b) parliamentary scrutiny: topical and urgent debate.
