ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning, we shall begin the sitting. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the agenda, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-four students and students and three educational sessions from the 2nd General School of Kallitheas. Welcome to the House. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development: "Recommendation of N.P.I.D. ‘National Accreditation System’ and other provisions. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that the debate on the bill should be uniform in principle, articles and amendments, as decided by the relevant parliamentary committee. Does this House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore agreed. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to suggest the following: there are four amendments. In fact, there are three amendments, because one has been discussed in the committee and it has already been incorporated. For the remaining three amendments, therefore, the Ministers responsible are Mrs Ahtsoglou and Mr Petropoulos. We've been notified they're coming around 11:00. So, in order not to waste time, the two general rapporteurs will start and when Mrs Ahtsoglu comes, I will give her the floor to present the three amendments so that all the other speakers and colleagues will have a picture of the three amendments. After the rapporteurs and the special speakers are finished, then the Minister will take the floor and we will continue with those colleagues who have registered. Recording is free. It opens the electronic system with the first general rapporteur, Mr.Jakalis, from SYRIZA, and will close as soon as Step by Mr. Christos Dimas is the rapporteur of the New Democracy. Does this House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u3	So the House approved the above proposal. SYRIZA's rapporteur, Mr Charilaos Tsakalis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am starting with a reference to the history of the National Accreditation System. Article 8 of Law 2231/1994 stipulates that the National Accreditation System is implemented and implemented by the public limited company called "National Accreditation System S.A.", whose work is assisted by the technical committees, assessors and experts. Subsequently, under Article 11 of Law 3066/2002, the above-mentioned public limited liability company was established under the name ‘National Accreditation System S.A.’ and the distinctive title of the ESRB. Articles 11 to 17 of the same law constituted its statute. The company's purpose was to implement, implement and manage the National Accreditation System provided for in the provisions of Law 2231/1994. By Article 6(2)(b) of Law No 4109/2013, the public limited company "ESDP S.A." was transformed and integrated as an independent operational unit with management, financial and accounting autonomy in the same law established a legal person under private law called "National Quality Infrastructure System", merged with ELO and EIM. This merger proceeded from the government at the time with absolutely no study and despite the serious objections and objections to the incompatibility of the three bodies put forward by the European Accreditation Body, as Community legislation laying down the requirements for accreditation and market surveillance was directly infringed. Indeed, the relevant Community legislation in force since 1 January 2010 is contained in Regulation No 765/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 July 2008 laying down the requirements for accreditation and market surveillance in respect of the marketing of products and repealing Council Regulation No 339/1993. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the obligation to set up a National Accreditation Organisation is laid down for the States of the European Union as the sole body carrying out the accreditation on the basis of the power conferred on it by the State. Where this is not economically feasible or feasible, the Member State should have access to the services of the National Accreditation Organisation of another Member State. Article 4 of the Regulation stipulates that the National Accreditation Agency operates on a non-profit basis and cannot provide, or provide, activities or services provided by conformity assessment bodies, nor can it provide consultancy services, shares or other economic or management interest in a Compliance Assessment Body such as the EEM. The Regulation also provides for the recognition of the European Accreditation Infrastructure under the name ‘European co-operation for Accreditation (E.A.), which is recognised as a European Regional Organisation of National Accreditation Bodies and exercises supervision over the functioning of accreditation at European level under an agreement — framework partnership concluded with the European Commission. It is clear that by the merger of the three organisations in 2013 and their subordinatence to the same body, the conditions of Regulation 765/2008 are not fulfilled, firstly, as regards the prohibition on the existence of an economic or management interest of the National Accreditation Agency to a Conformity Assessment Body, such as the EMI and, secondly, on the restriction of the use of any surplus revenues of the National Accreditation Agency exclusively for investments in the further development of the activities and not on the cover of operational costs of the other two entities, namely ELO and the EIM. As early as 2014, the European Accreditation Body has called for the manifest incompatibility to be lifted, the uninterrupted functioning of the National Accreditation Agency and the safeguarding of the independence of the ESRB. Under Article 1 of the draft law, a legal person of private law, non-profit-making, called "National Accreditation System", which is the National Accreditation Organisation, belongs to the wider public sector, has administrative and financial self-sufficiency and is supervised by the Minister of Economy and Development. As the Deputy Minister explained, the legal form of the legal person of private law was chosen and not the public limited company, following the relevant opinion of the Legal Board of State. The legal person constituted shall be the self-functional unit under the name ‘SGEI S.A.’, which shall be seconded by the legal person under the name ‘National Quality Infrastructure System’. Consequently, the establishment of the legal person ensures that national legislation is complied with, in particular, by Regulation No 3. 765/2008. Furthermore, the necessary impartiality and independence of accreditation services and the use of surplus income of the National Accreditation Agency in accordance with the provisions of that Regulation shall be ensured. Article 2 refers to the purpose and responsibilities of the legal person of private law recommended. The ESRB shall be entrusted with the implementation, implementation and management of the National Accreditation System. The ESRB shall be the State’s official accreditation consultant and represent the country to relevant international organisations, undertake training activities related to accreditation, issue accreditation certificates to certification bodies, inspection and control bodies, environmental verifiers and test laboratories and metrology laboratories. It shall also decide on the rejection, withdrawal or suspension of accreditation. It may participate in mutual recognition agreements concluded between national accreditation bodies. Article 3 refers to the operation of the ESRB from - firstly - the National Accreditation Board, set up by thirteen members, appointed for a three-year term by a decision of the Minister of Economy and Development on a proposal from the bodies represented. The National Accreditation Board shall deliver an opinion to the Governing Council of the ESRB on matters relating to the award or withdrawal of accreditation, establishing the criteria for regulations, accreditation procedures, and financial obligations of those accredited or supervised. Secondly, it is assisted by evaluators and experts. A register of specialised officials from the public, wider public and private sectors shall be established under the responsibility of the ESRB in order to assist the ESRB in its operation. The decision of the Minister of Economy and Development set out the details for the creation and maintenance of the registry, the terms and conditions for membership and any other necessary details. Article 4 refers to the ESRB management bodies. The Board of Directors is seven and consists, first, of the President, second, of the Chief Executive, third, of a representative of the Industry of the Ministry of Economy and Development, fourthly, of a Professor of HEI or TEI with knowledge on the themes of the institution, fifthly, of a representative of the Association of Enterprises and Industry with experience in the matters of the USSR, identified by BSE, sixthly, by a representative of the Association of Industries of Northern Greece with experience in the matters of the RIS, designated by the Association of Industries of Northern Greece and the Seventh, by a representative of the employees of the RIS, designated by its employees. The President and the Managing Director shall be persons of known standing and scientific training or professional experience in the thematic areas of the institution. It is clear that the position of the Chief Executive Officer is full and exclusive and that the properties of the President and the Chief Executive Officer may coincide with the same person. The remuneration of the members of the Management Board shall be determined by common decision of the Ministers for Economic and Financial Affairs and Development. The term of office of the members of the Board of Directors shall be three years with the possibility of renewing once for an equal period. Note that the properties of the President and the CEO, as I said before, may coincide with the same person. The question of the representation of the legal person recommended is laid down in Article 5. The ESRB shall be represented in judicial and extrajudicial terms by the Chair of the Management Board or by a person specifically authorised for a specific case, to which the Board shall assign its representation. Article 6 shall indicate the financial resources of the entity in question, which are distinguished from regular and extraordinary. Article 7 sets out and analyses the rules of operation and the responsibilities of the Board of Directors, the organisation and administrative structure of the RIS services, the number of posts and their distribution to RIS services, the qualifications and conditions of recruitment, work and development of each type of staff, in accordance with existing provisions and the disciplinary law of the staff. The regulation on the organisation and operation of the ESRB shall be amended and supplemented by a joint decision of the Ministers for Administrative Reconstruction and Economy and Development upon a recommendation from the Board of Directors of the ESRB. Article 8 provides that a regulation on financial management and procurement of the ESRB is to be drawn up to regulate matters of management and procurement, such as, in particular, the preparation and publication of the budget, balance sheet and statement, matters relating to the cases and the procedure for the payment of fees, revenue collection and reimbursement of expenditure, as well as matters relating to the procurement of the institution. The transitional provisions of Article 9 deal with several issues: the secondment by the ESS, the universal succession, the continuation of outstanding proceedings, the right of self-determination, the continued execution of signatures, the setting up of a three-member committee to carry out a census, the validity of certificates issued, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, from the operators' positions in their hearing it has been clearly demonstrated that they consider this legislative initiative to be absolutely necessary and necessary. The bodies described the current situation, the merger of the three bodies, namely the ESS, ELO and the EIM, as unacceptable. It was not explained by any Member of the New Democracy or PASOK why the merger took place in 2013, which only caused disturbance and problems to the market, to producers, to entrepreneurs with the risk of being dismissed from the European system. In other words, it was not explained that it was a political choice because it had taken precedence over a process of splitting and depreciating ELOT with the creation of deficits in the organisation and that the merger attempted to cover these deficits through the ESRB. Instead of making self-criticism for their dangerous sloppy choice, they have only been content with an incomprehensible acute criticism of the urgency of the draft law, of course by not omiting, in their favourite tactics, to jeopardise the possible miscarriage of the ESS from the European system, which is a matter they have created. The Ministry, as all the bodies mentioned, has an open channel of communication with them and is open to proposals to improve the accreditation and standardisation system. In this context, in the course of the next period, the Ministry will proceed to set up a working group in which, apart from its members, all three stakeholders, namely ELO, EIM and the ESRB, will participate. The proposed draft is necessary for the Greek economy, since, on the one hand, the disturbance on the market has been caused since the merger of 2013 and, on the other, its arrangements will have a beneficial effect on the activities of the exporting enterprises and undertakings active in the field of assessment - compliance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, too. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Christos Dimas, has the floor. Mr. Dimas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. I am one of those who, when the SYRIZA - Independent Greeks were first elected in January 2015, said in my speech in the government's schedule statements that I wish the government would do well - despite the fact that I had no faith in what it says - because if it does well, the country will reasonably do well. I really believe that the moment has come when we have to see all the political parties how we will work together in order to get the country back on track. I would therefore like to remind you, now that you are in the governance of the country for two and a half years, that we in the New Democracy do not exercise irresponsible, sterile opposition of 'no' to everything, putting everything to all the social groups, as you did in SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks. We decide whether or not to vote in favour of a bill on the basis of what we consider to be more beneficial for the country, even if it has political costs. Instead, you first placed everything on everyone, then at the expense of the national interest, you played the theater of irrationality with the so-called'superior and hard negotiations', charging citizens and businesses EUR 9 billion so far - and I stress the 'for the moment' - and now you are about to become the longest-lived Memorandum Government, that is, the most memorandum of all of us. Unfortunately, however, the irresponsibility with which you are ruling, but also your inadequacy to deal with matters adequately, will lead to increased problems. And while you should solve one - one problem, with your policy you have problems even where they were not before. If I had to describe with one word the current legislative initiative of the Government, that would be a slap. Today we are discussing the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development under the heading 'N.P.I.D. Recommendation. ‘National Accreditation System’ and other provisions. However, at the same time in this draft law we have an amendment from the Ministry of Education which changes provisions for the exercise of the pan-Hellenic examinations and three amendments from the Ministry of Labour. One is for a loan of EUR 10 million from the Single Social Security Agency - from the famous ECA - to an ancillary insurance agency. The second amendment concerns the introduction by law, rather than a ministerial decision currently in force, of 1 May as compulsory holidays, and the third is the establishment of a section dealing with undeclared work at the Supreme Labour Council. The most impressive, however, is the fact that we are discussing these in a draft law, which has been introduced under the urgency procedure. In other words, it has been introduced by a special procedure so that it can be debated and voted very quickly, without effective consultation and an extensive debate, as all the issues require. But I come to our point. I have heard the Minister wonder why we have stressed that you are putting the country at risk. It is confirmed, Minister, that the country has received a warning letter from the European Accreditation Agency since 2015. What, then, did the SYRIZA - Independent Greek government do during these two and a half years, to deal now with the possibility of expulsion of the ECHR. by the European Accreditation Agency; In fact, absolutely nothing. That is why you come to the House, on the last day of the deadline, with this draft law, which is, in fact, largely - with small differences - a copy of the 2002 law. When you have the warning letters for two and a half years, the urgency procedure is not justified in any way. For the time-limit of 25 April, today, that is, you have known her for a long time, Minister. Therefore, you have been indifferent and there is no excuse. So, without any doubt, you have exposed the country to a risk of miscarriage and not just. And as if that were not enough, you have the nerve to say that after the draft law was passed, you will build a working group with the three agencies, the ESRD, the ELOT. And the EIM, so you can discuss their course. I'm sorry, but shouldn't that have been two and a half years before you brought the bill over here? The result is that this draft law does not help, as the Greek economy should. Normally, the aim should have been to develop a development policy and to discuss how to improve the quality of accreditation, standardisation and metrology services. Unfortunately, for all of us you do not have a plan for the country, but above all, you do not have the capacity to get the country out of the crisis. Today's legislation is another sign that you are both helpless, but also unable to manage the country's governance, even on issues that you could discuss with stakeholders in the comfort of time, in order to find optimal and effective solutions. You have not done so, and in fact we are only talking about how we are going to get rid of the European Accreditation Agency, indifferent to improving services. I cannot, however, refer to the amendment by the Ministry of Education's amendment to the pan-Hellenic examinations, a question which employs thousands of students, parents and teachers. A characteristic example of your irresponsibility and sloppyness is the fact that while there is just forty-two days left for the start of the pan-Hellenic exams, you are now changing the terms of the process, creating terrible turmoil. Instead of training being an area of peak and consensus and long-term planning, you, even today, are making changes that will take place in a few weeks. Insert repeat examinations every September in which the candidates for a general or professional high school are entitled to participate if they did not take part in the examination of one or more courses during the regular pan-Hellenic examinations. The reasons are: ‘Whether because of a serious health reason or because of mental suffering, as a result of the death of a relative first degree of blood in a straight line or second grade of blood on a sideline, which occurred within the month preceding the month before the start of the tests and until the end of the tests’. So there is a right to repetitive examinations for two reasons: either because of serious health or mental suffering due to death. And if, for the second case, the amendment is clear, the 'either serious health' case has several ambiguities, leaving room for broad interpretations on a case-by-case basis. We now go to a series of questions that need to be answered by the Ministry of Education immediately. Firstly, what is considered as a serious health reason? This is, in my opinion, an extremely serious issue that the Ministry of Education should make it clear today. Breaking hands, meningitis, gastroenteritis? What, then, is a serious health reason and where does the limit come in? Secondly, who testifies to the serious health reason? If, for example, one fails to write well in the first two lessons and then presents paper from a public hospital for some kind of serious illness or serious injury, is he entitled to return all the lessons to the repetitive pan-Hellenic examinations? Thirdly, why does the amendment not make it clear and leave room for the provision to be brought into the window-tested entry? Fourthly, does it not recommend manipulation of the final results of the fact that a candidate will know in advance which schools the bases are low to aim there at the time that thousands of others will have done their computers in the blind two months ago? Obviously, none of us are socially analgesic so that it does not recognise how there are cases that need a second chance of examination, so that students do not lose a whole year because of force majeure. What is causing, however, is the irresponsibility with which the government legislates on such a serious matter as the persistence of the examinations, causing serious damage to the authority of perhaps the most improper procedure we have in recent decades in the country. It is more than provocative that the government's frustration, which had so many months at its disposal to legislate but chose this time period, just weeks before students were called to claim a place in the country's higher education. Such issues must be regulated at the beginning of the school year and not through urgent procedures in the peninsula, which in any case do not honour democratic parliamentary tradition. However, the amendments tabled by the Ministry of Labour are not acceptable. With an amendment to an unrelated bill, such as today, without any debate, a loan from the EMS to an ancillary insurance agency is being granted. We would like to know first of all what the EDPS is about and whether this practice is to be followed for other agencies. I'm sure when the Minister comes, she'll explain. Also, with an amendment to an unrelated bill, a undeclared work department is being set up. It is a completely fragmented legislative initiative. Undeclared work is not dealt with by creating additional structures, but by real policies. And you, to deal with undeclared work, have done absolutely nothing. Third amendment. It is the amendment to the compulsory holiday of the Day. I knew the Labour Day was a strike, not a compulsory holiday. And that was the characteristic that distinguished it and differentiated it from other compulsory holidays. This, however, is the spirit of your own government and the way you legislate. Sloppy, incompetent and lack of planning. This mixture, however, unfortunately, has very important consequences for the national economy and the daily lives of all of us. The country needs a reliable government with a plan and a capacity to manage the situation, a government that has not promised everything to everyone, but will operate solely in the interests of the country as a whole and not just a few syndicate groups, which may be more represented or simply make more noise. It takes a revolution of reason and responsibility, which you proved can't even be part of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u7	The team is flying. We're going too fast. Well done. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the "World Democracy Workshop", which is organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-three students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st Graduate School of Gatsi. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We are moving on with the special speaker of the Democratic Partnership, Mr Michael Jeleigh. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, while the country is facing multiple deadlocks, we see that for months there has been an endless negotiation, which the entire Greek people have watched with an agony. Every morning we wake up with a deal and again at night we sleep with endless and dead-end negotiations. On the other hand, we have the government, which has achieved a surplus of EUR 6.5 billion. And I'm asking: is that bloody or not? When in 2014 there was a surplus of 0.5% of GDP, it was bleeding. Now 3.5% what is it? I'll tell you what it is. It is your inability, you have skinned the Greek people with your tax-spring policies and taxation policies. As far as negotiation is concerned, you should be aware that time in the economy is not neutral. You are, unfortunately, driving the country and the economy on plaster with problems that will arise along the way, as they are on a daily basis. On the other hand, we are coming here today and we are discussing a bill on a serious matter of national concern, on standardisation and accreditation by the national agencies that the country should have. In fact, we are discussing this in plenary in the form of urgency, which is only urgent. But all of this is in the philosophy of the SYRIZA-ANEL communication strategy, which makes black white, yes, not non-urgent emergency. And that, because for this draft law you have been aware of the principle of governance. You knew there were loose ends with the country's National Quality Infrastructure System. We have heard the Minister's committee say that the final date for not staying without national accreditation bodies is 25 April, that is today. Is this a question in April 2015? And for two years, what have you guys been doing? Did you fail? I also stressed this in committee: are you doing so deliberately or ignorantly? We are coming here today to the harp glue to vote without consultation. Within three hours we heard the operators, and even many were unable to come, because we notified them this morning to come and listen to them this afternoon. We are forced by partial fragmentation to decide today on an issue which requires particular political attention. They are asking serious questions, because by January 2015 no issue had been raised from the functioning of the ESS, which started in 2013, and while the European Accreditation Agency was aware of all the changes that had been made. Why has the administration appointed by the SYRIZA - ANEL government from the outset repudiated the single body? It had no international participation and European meetings and did not claim the acceptance of the single organisation by the European organisations concerned. Why has the government not tried to support the ESS at all when the country is in need of saving resources and improving state administration? Is the government's aim to create another body to place another party official, while not answering how it will deal with the financial problem of the institutions that remain in the ERC, which are not being abolished, the ELO and the EIM? How do you deal with all these RSU needs? As described in the explanatory memorandum to the draft law, for the competence of accreditation of the relevant body, is the government willing to strengthen the ESS by pooling all accreditation procedures to it, since they are now multidimensional and are made by various departments and various ministries? How will you also support the ESRB, which needs staff, which can finance itself? Why didn't you do it so far? These are basic questions to which you must answer. I have put them to the committee, and I have not received any reply. With what you are doing today as a co-government and invoke European Regulation 768/2008, Minister, you are not right to present all the processes that had been carried out between the ESS and the European Accreditation Agency, as I have repeatedly said. For everything, the European authority has been informed of the structural internal problems arising from the establishment of the EMRP. But let's take things in turn. The ESS was created in 2013 by the merger of three independent agencies of the Ministry of Development, which were the institutions for safeguarding the quality infrastructure in our country: the RIS, responsible for accreditation, the ELOT in charge of standardisation and the EIM in charge of metrology. Since the first moment of the merger, all possible problems of impartiality and autonomy had been raised in the political leadership of the Ministry of Development, which could create problems in relation to the functioning, European and international recognition of the three former agencies, particularly the National Accreditation System, for which most of the requirements, non-discrimination of economic and administrative autonomy exist. There were, then, two major problems for the new establishment at the time. Firstly, the economic situation, as State subsidies had been excessively reduced and were much lower than costs. Secondly, the issues of institutional functioning and harmonisation with European requirements. The direct priority was the drafting of the operational regulation and of the financial regulation, such as the founding law of the ERC. The question arose then as to the incompatibilities of the EDPS concerning the higher management of the EDPS, which should be separate, the requirement for its financial and administrative autonomy, its separate legal registration and its incompatibility with metrology. Efforts were made to resolve all the above issues through the drafting of the operating regulation, where there is a position of Head of each operating unit and, in particular, the ESS with increased responsibilities to ensure a requirement for a separate management of the ESS. A separate account was set up for each operating unit and three separate balance sheets were drawn up, one for each operating unit. At the same time, the European Accreditation Authority, which is the body from which accreditation bodies in Europe are controlled for all the planned changes, has been informed at the same time. With the other two former NIMs and ELOTs there were no similar problems and their acceptance by European and international organisations was made without any particular problems until the 2015 elections were followed. It is worth mentioning that the European Accreditation Authority periodically evaluates all national accreditation bodies, which is why the ECHR is also involved. On 14 October 2014, the European Accreditation Authority sent its comments on the merger and they were all answered by the then management of the HSPS. Another European requirement for the accreditation body was that its revenues should not be used to cover other needs and functions which are not relevant to accreditation. For the above reasons, the Minister, Mr. Konstantinopoulos, recognised the above requirement and in the summer of 2014 he had ensured the administrative and financial autonomy of the organisation with additional funding and approved its participation in the competitive programme of public investment with investments, which would solve many problems and increase the productivity and competitiveness of the organisation. Since its establishment the HSY has significantly reduced its costs, from 8,154,000 in 2012 to 5,284,000 in 2013 and 5,250,000 in 2014. Furthermore, it became the first public body to seek markets outside Greece and exported services to China and Russia, creating new markets in profits. There was never a problem and the functioning of the ESS had not met a threat until January 2015, where the change of government took place at that time. Since then, we have read and hear threats of extermination from international European organisations, malfunction of the ESS, staff payments contrary to the autonomy of the former three organisations, proving depreciation, anemic funding, lack of political will to support quality, and a more general fading and lack of any creative breath and extroversion. So you come after two years saying that we no longer have time, and we must dismantle what happened and go to the previous regime in 2002, to No. 3066. All that was pending for the ESS was for you to adopt the operating regulation and try to convince the European level of this merger. They had, as I pointed out, taken all the necessary measures and planned the structure of the organization. However, you, either from ignorance or from inability, as I said before, or from backwardness and small-scale benefits, instead of supporting the ESS, choose an easy solution. Also, the bill in itself does not solve the problem or bring anything new. In fact, again with this bill, you are being extended so that the European Accreditation Authority does not throw us out. A new organisation is set up, which has no difference with the previous one, Law 3066/2002. Copy it by simply changing the legal form of a public limited company to a legal person governed by private law. But there are issues of compliance with this bill, which I am going to mention in detail, because there are still no serious issues in this draft law in relation to the European Accreditation Authority. I would just like to stress that it makes me seem to me that members of the board of directors from the social bodies, who participated in the ERC and were then in favour of the functioning of the ERC as a single accreditation body in the country, are coming today, because rather you have rescheduled them to the administrative boards, undo their previous positions and are now agreeing to dismantle this organisation and make a new one. Rave-- he was going out, that's all. So you come to five, blackmailing Parliament so that the country does not remain without a national accreditation body and you are bringing this bill to the vote. Therefore, it is immediately understood that this draft law is a clear, clear and tangible proof of your dubiousness, of the non-implementation of all the regulatory provisions of Law 41009/2012 and of the delay in the early response for two years and of the adaptation to the law requirements. Bring this bill by completely ignoring the organisation's technical, administrative, internal and financial malfunctions to get another extension to substance by the European Accreditation Authority. With extensions you only earn a little of your already lost time, but you do not give any solution. Instead, you're magnifying the problem and we'll find it in front of us. The draft law therefore needs a radical re-examination and improvement in order to avoid new problems and changes in the future, as the European Accreditation Authority will again ask for. The issue was today that we had overcome the malfunctions and developed a more outdated development bill on accreditation, standardisation, meteorology and market control, which meets the requirements of international accreditation standards, gives flexibility to the accreditation assessment system, contributes to the development potential of the RIS, enables a more aggressive Greek accreditation policy in the European and international space and contributes to the sustainability of the RIS as a state body. With all this in mind, I would like to say that the Democratic Integration, as a sideline of responsibility, cannot come to the face of a bill, even as you bring it, clipboard, in five and five, as a repetition of a 2002 bill, where matters of incompatibility again will arise with the European Authority, but we must have a National Accreditation Agency, once it is a requirement of the European authorities and institutions. However, we disagree vertically with your own clipboards, skins, and rather than five legislative practices. As regards the amendments and the incompatibility with the European authorities and this new draft law, as you have brought it, I will be in the debate that will follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u9	I would like to make it clear to Mr Jelloni that there is not going to be a debate on this matter. However, the rapporteurs will have a little time to do your second language on the amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-seven students and students and three educational sessions from the 2nd General School of Kallitheas. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We shall proceed with Mrs Eleni Zarulia from the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u10	Thank you. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] With the proposed draft law, the provisions of which after the addition of Amendment No 1019/7 of 20.4.2017, entitled ‘Repeat examinations of introduction into higher education and supplementing Article 13 of the Act. 4452/2017’ of the Ministries of Finance, Education, Research and Religious Affairs and Religious Affairs, extend to thirteen articles, essentially attempts by the relevant Ministry to harmonise domestic legislation which regulates the operational framework of the National Accreditation Body with European legislation and the relevant Directives of the European Union. The public limited liability company ‘National Accreditation System’, hereinafter referred to as ‘National Accreditation Board’, was established by Law 3066/2002 on Government PASOK and Symbol, with a view to the implementation, application and management of the National Accreditation System provided for in the provisions of Law 2231/1994 as ‘National Accreditation Board’, and this in the PASOK and Andreas Papandreou Government, as amended by Law 2642/1999 on Government PASOK and Site, was transformed and incorporated as an independent operational accreditation unit in the National Quality Infrastructure System, hereinafter referred to as the PSAP, established by the contested Law. 4109/2013 on the new Republic, PASOK and DIMAR, which, according to the explanatory statement, caused the problems, because the proposed legislative act became mandatory by the competent European supervisory body. This has happened because this law has subjected the National Accreditation System to the National Quality Services System, established by this Law. 4190/2013 of the New Republic, PASOK and DIMAR co-management. The absorption of the National Accreditation Services System by the National System of Certification Services, as was done by the Hellenic Standardisation Organisation, hereinafter the Hellenic Institute of Meteorology, the EIM, according to the explanatory statement, contradicts Community law and in particular the Statute of the competent European Supervisory Body for Accreditation EA, which states that accreditation activities must be fully distinct, as provided for in European Regulation 765/2008 and fully independent. This legislative act of the governance of SYRIZA and ANEL comes literally at the very last moment in which the two-year deadline set by the competent European supervisory body expires. In particular, on 28 February of 2017, the two-year period set by European accreditation cooperation has expired, in order for the relevant Ministry of Economy and Development to proceed with a legislative arrangement for compliance of the National Accreditation System with European legislation and standards of European Accreditation Cooperation. Therefore, European Accreditation Cooperation has drafted a recommendation to the forthcoming meeting of the MLA Committee - Mutual Recognition Committee - on 27 April 2017 to suspend the recognition of all accreditations provided by the National Accreditation System. It is noted that the National Accreditation System is the National Accreditation Agency. The consequences of its possible failure to comply with the recommendations of European Accreditation Cooperation will suspend its recognition and participation in multilateral global agreements. On the one hand, we observe the obvious and self-proof of the results of the failure of the officials of the political formation 'New Democracy - PASOK - DIMAR', with regard to the faithful and accurate implementation of the directives of their adorned European Union of the German economic oligarchy. L.4190/2013, signed by Stournaras, Manitatakis, Arvanitopoulos, Brutsi, Kefaloniannis, Panagiotopoulos, Hatzidakis, Livieratos, Rupakiotis, Karaoglou and Stamatitis under the presidency of Papoulia, is the one who led to the intervention of the European supervisory body and the position of a two-year period of change of the legal framework and therefore any responsibilities initially to be sought. On the other hand, we observe the complete incompatibility of the time-consuming political form of the Communists of SYRIZA, in which almost all of the "hiftosOK" and the so-called Kammen's patriots have been incapable for two years, from 2015 to 2017, not to act on what their European mandates indicated to them. And we see them rushing to Parliament at the last moment, literally, in the form of an emergency, a draft law on which they have had time for two years to take care of. As a justification for the proposed legislative act at the legal level and in the explanatory statement, accompanying the proposed draft law, there is a need for the non-compliance of the legal framework established by Law 4190/2013 of the New Democracy Co-operation, PASOK with DIMAR, Directive 765/2008 of the European Union and, of course, the threat of the automatic abolition of the international recognition of all certification bodies in our country, as well as of the accredited laboratories. It is a development that will bring about a recovery of exports and a total trade for a number of products and services from and from abroad. The implementation of such a potential will directly or indirectly affect thousands of undertakings, for example, agri-foodstuffs, construction materials, tourist accommodation, electrical equipment, industrial equipment, machinery and others, which will be faced with the risk of not being able to fulfil their obligations in this regard, be temporarily out of the market and lose international agreements and orders. In addition, the relevant re-certification costs will be re-subscribed, seeking certification from another accredited external body. In this respect, we must consider the objections of some of the actors concerning the content of the draft law. The representative of the Hellenic Standardisation Agency took into account the Committee's view that the previous law, Law No 4190/2013, which was merged into the RIS, the EMS and the ELO, has created operating problems, especially in ELO, since, firstly, responsibilities were removed and secondly, the revenues of the only National Standardisation Organisation were reduced. In particular, due to the reduction in revenue, there is a risk that the Hellenic Standardisation Agency will be removed from the international and European standardisation bodies. This will result in a forced assessment by the respective national standardisation organisations from neighbouring countries, such as Albania and Skopje. This law, in our view, has been a sign of mismanagement of this organization and has been made in order to serve the spasmodic supposedly improvement movements of the government at the time. It was the time when the so-called "institutions" imposed the Memorandum Arrangements, thus establishing their economic sovereignty in the Greek state in question. The most appropriate explanation for the inclusion of the National Accreditation System in the status of n.4109/2013 is rather the necessary, memorial tombs, fiscal consolidation under the cloak of reform policy. This is where the reasonable question arises: What exports are we talking about? For what economic activity? The Greek economy has been fully levelled and destroyed by the monumental choices of the new Republic, PASOK, DIMAR, Karazafiris, SYRIZA, Kammenos. The commercial balance of our homeland over the last decade, from 2007 until today, has been showing a permanent and consistent negative sign. According to the data of the Hellenic Statistical Authority and with the Bank of Greece source, the trade balance of goods for 2016 presents a negative figure of EUR 1.4 billion. From 2000 to 2015 Greece's trade deficit amounted to EUR 348 billion, at the same time as the public debt reached EUR 338 billion, according to data from the Centre for Export Research and Studies. The decrease of 9% in imports, which occurred between 2000 and 2015, is due to reduced demand and not to the substitution of imported Greek goods. This negative situation has been observed for a long time, continuously and continuously. How much more damage can be done to an already dead national economy? The Greek people are falling. Our brilliant youth is forced into economic immigration. Thousands of fellow citizens commit suicide because of economic problems. The middle economic order has been exterminated for the benefit of domestic and foreign major economic interests. The public sector is still gigantic today in order to increase the party electoral army of the bourgeois governments and through the NGOs, in which many Members here, except for the Golden Dawn, participate or belong to you. Our homeland has been invaded by millions of illegal immigrants who are destined to be the new workforce and the new electorate. How much damage can be done if the threat of European Accreditation Cooperation is implemented, since Greece's governance possesses urban capitalist, neoliberal and last and communist conflicts, which are in no way interested in saving, first of all, the Greek nation and its uprooting, while through the unique cumulative and appropriate policy of a national economy with protective features, with the development of the primary sector as an overriding objective and with the exploitation of the enormous national wealth of the Greek land for the sole benefit of the nation, the consequences of the sanctions that European Accreditation Cooperation threatens seem to be negligible. The provisions of Regulation (EC) No 765/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 July 2008 laying down the requirements for accreditation and market surveillance relating to the marketing of products and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 339/93 provide for the Member States of the European Union to establish a National Accreditation Agency as the sole body which performs the accreditation on the basis of a power conferred on it by the State and, if this is not economically feasible or feasible, the Member State should have access to the services of the National Accreditation Organisation of another Member State. Since, therefore, the domestic rulers have proved inadequate - as the case may be - to the Cyprus Certification Promotion Agency in order to have access to the services of the National Accreditation Organisation of another Member State, in order to avoid any sanctions and adverse consequences of the actions and their failures in the national economy, which are, of course, due to their established incapacity or in the context of their agreement with the foreign centres of power, which aim to completely decompose the Greek economy and the social fabric of our country. Golden Dawn will vote 'in principle', as it is another requirement of the European Union, which, in the current form it has taken and which is now moving into radical neoliberal economic policies, in the context of promoted globalisation, is in no way defending and at least promoting Greek economic interests. It is obvious that the Golden Dawn disagrees with such policies and practices. Our aim is to regulate a legislative framework whereby the National Accreditation System will be a state institution, with equivalent legal personality and not a legal person governed by private law. A proposal by Greek nationalists is the creation of a single similar body of statehood, which not only supervises and oversees private law companies active in the field of accreditation and certification, but this state body will take full responsibility for these services in order to fully manage the part of the accreditation and certifications, mainly for the benefit of the State and the nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u11	As I said at the outset, the Minister has come and I think it will be useful for the other speakers and colleagues, who will take the floor, to have a break in the order of colleagues. Will you speak of the three amendments, Mr Ahtsoglou, or of both, and of the other Mr Petropoulos?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u12	Yeah, like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u13	So you are taking the floor for the two amendments, that is, the last five minutes for each, and then Mr Petropoulos for the other amendment for five minutes. Stay in the Chamber for a while if a colleague wants to ask some clarification if he has not been covered, and then you will be free to leave or join us and continue. I therefore give you ten minutes for the two amendments. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. The first amendment, with a general number of 1023 and a special number 11, concerns the introduction of its first May as compulsory holidays by law and not by decision of the respective Minister of Labour, as is the case until now. In May of each year, the struggles of the working class given by Chicago in 1886 to the first Greek strike movement for eight hours of work, eight hours of recreation, eight hours of rest, to establish Sunday as a holiday, to improve working conditions in the workplace, struggles that have continued since then against labour exploitation for a better future of the world of work. This day connects the workers of all countries, of all races, regardless of nationality. It is the day of universal vindication by the labour movement of better working conditions and more labour and social rights. As a minimum price, its first May is introduced as a compulsory holiday day, so that it is not at the discretion of the Minister concerned. This amendment has a symbolic character, but it is also essential. We are obviously honoring the thousands of workers and workers who gave their lives and their blood for the right to work, for eight-hour life, for dignity in the workplace. But it also has a substantial content today that, in Europe and in the world, unfortunately, the concept of growth passing through the abuse of the rights of the world of work is dominated by the compression of labour and social rights, through the absolute freedom of employers to define these terms of work, to fruit up the results of wage labour. Our government is trying, within a particularly unfavourable association of forces every day, within and outside the country, to reverse this scene of total deregulation of the industrial relations that we have received. However, this is first and foremost the work of the workers themselves, their collective claims, but also of a healthy trade union movement representing them all and fighting for everyone. The first of May prohibits all industrial, industrial and commercial work and, of course, the employment of employees. His first May as compulsory holiday day is governed by the legal regime governing Sunday holidays. That is all in relation to the first amendment. With the second amendment, under the general number 1024 and special 12, it is set up at the Higher Council of Labour, which operates at the central office of the Ministry of Labour and Social Solidarity, the Department of Combating Undeclared Labour. The establishment of the branch confirms, first of all, our government's priority in tackling the phenomenon of undeclared work and in imposing legality on the labour market. The Section of the Higher Labour Council on Undeclared Work will systemify and broaden the efforts made to combat the phenomenon of undeclared work by strengthening coordination and social accountability of audit mechanisms. The establishment of the section now allows us an integrated strategy to combat undeclared work on three axes, firstly, to exploit the experience of auditing mechanisms, secondly, to upgrade the interoperability of information systems and, thirdly, to involve the social partners, representatives of the productive bodies of the country and of the scientific bodies in this process of combating undeclared work. We believe that the social partners through this section, within this House, are now actively involved and reaffirm their stated intentions to combat the phenomenon of undeclared work and to assume their responsibilities on the matter. In the same direction, we have already drawn up a roadmap with the help of the International Labour Organisation. It includes twenty-five actions, which will be unfolded by 2019. A very important action, for which I would also like to inform Members, is that a pilot project for mixed audits will be launched from next month by the Labour Inspectorate, the Economic Crime Corps, the respective EPC body and the Economic Police. These four, then, control bodies will act together in the Attica Region to capture the phenomena of undeclared work and deal with them. We believe that this synergy of the four control mechanisms will produce very important results. We are fully aware of the situation in the labour market, the widespread deregulation. It is precisely because of the institutional deregulation that they found and the space to cultivate the phenomena of employers' arbitrariness and to develop and bloom - in in introductory words the word - undeclared work, to thrive. In our attempt to strengthen the role of the Labour Inspectorate and reverse this situation, we are setting up again structures that the change in the organisational chart of 2014 had abolished, such as the legal department of the Labour Inspectorate, as well as the new Regional Directorate in the Aegean Sea, which will be specifically geared to the invasion that develops there, in island Greece. Finally, I would like to inform you that in the coming period we will extend the register of infringements of undertakings so that companies which have serious infringements of labour law do not have access to public money or to European programmes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u15	Mr. Petropoulou, you have the floor for five minutes for your position. In addition to what you have thought, because a question has been raised, I will take it from Mr Dimas, if the government intends, if there are any alternatives to the problem of the EDAC, to do similar action. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. The CEDEFOP shall be the only subsidiary institution that is a union governed by its statutes. It does, however, have a public function in relation to the granting of an supplementary pension. A relevant decision has been issued by the Supreme Special Court for this role carried out by the EDEAP and, therefore, because it also serves a public purpose in this respect, we have an obligation to regulate in order to find solutions to the liquidity facilitation that the EDEAP must have pending the successful conclusion, which I believe we will have, the negotiations that are taking place between the employers' associations in the media and the electronic media and the unions of authors of the WTO, the EESC and the other associations. I would like to inform you that tomorrow there is one - I hope - a final and final meeting between the bodies to agree a financing solution on the part of employers, who obviously also benefit from the non-restraint of advertising revenues. As previously withheld, contributions are no longer retained and the employers who have declared their will to contribute to the maintenance of the EDPS have every reason and interest. I expect their commitments to express their respective positions at tomorrow's meeting. Let me remind you that in the last debate that took place in December - if I am not mistaken, in the Minutes of 14 December - my call has been recorded on all the wings of this House to address the same political position and support to address the financial need of the EDPS in order to continue to grant supplementary pensions, one-off and health benefits. Therefore, there is no place for another subsidiary fund. This is what works in the way I mentioned. It provides us with the possibility of the Lending Facility of 3586/2007, which provides for the possibility of granting a loan with the interest rate that is formed at the corresponding amount of using the mutual capital at the Bank of Greece. The Report has also been approved by the General Accounting Office of the State. It has been found that this does not affect the single social security institution. We expect it to be possible to address the liquidity problems of the EDPS to make positive use of this regulation in order not to prolong the problem. That is why they are in four monthly instalments, namely EUR 2.5 million every month, so that the parties can agree. I appeal again to all the political wings which have not so far done so. No political aspect, other than the Government, has supported this view, the political position that employers must contribute by increasing their contributions because they have been facilitated by the non-payment of an ad in the process of collecting funds from advertising. That is my answer and I am waiting for your positive position and for the vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u17	From the SYRIZA, the rapporteur or the parliamentary representative, would he like to ask a precise question, rather than a position? I'll inform you that you'll be placed when you speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u18	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u19	From New Democracy, do you have any clarifications from Mr Dimas - and not placement - for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u20	Yes, Mr. President. I would like to ask a detailed question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u21	Here, then, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u22	Minister, how sure are you that the Agency will be able to repay its loan? Also, have you, or are you thinking of taking some initiative, so that he can actually collect the debts he owes him? Also, in the Report by the General Accounting Office of the State, to which you referred, you said that there is no harm. Indeed, it's a loan loan. Normally, under normal conditions, there should also be a benefit for the State. I would like to know why you think this is not provided for in the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u23	Minister, gather all the questions and I'll give you the floor. Would you like to ask a question from the Democratic Association, Mr. Jelloney?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u24	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u25	From Golden Dawn, Mrs. Zarulia, do you have any questions?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u26	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u27	Mr. Synonymous, would you like to put a question for clarification?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u28	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u29	Does Mr. Lazarides from the Independent Greeks have any questions?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u30	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u31	Mr. Saridis, who is in the Chamber from the Centro Association, would like to ask a question?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u32	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u33	Mr. Danellis from the river would like to ask you something?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u34	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u35	So there is only one question, that of Mr Dimas. Here, Minister, you have the floor for two minutes to answer...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u36	Mr President, will you give me the floor for a moment to ask a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u37	I said now that only the rapporteurs and Parliamentary Representatives will speak...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u38	The question concerns the Minister and is clear. He can answer us all together.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u39	Minister, excuse me. Here, Mr Mitarakis, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u40	Thank you very much. Minister, if you'll excuse me, I'd like a clarification. As mentioned in the 2007 Act, which has, as you know, been amended by Law No 4111/2013. This law requires the signature of the Minister of Finance for such a lending operation. Will this amendment be signed by the Minister for Finance? Will you fix this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u41	We're done with the precise questions. Mr. Petropoulos has the floor for three minutes and we'll keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u42	Allowed to grant the loan, Mr. Metarakis. It does not give the loan itself with the amendment. Therefore, in the implementation of the relevant act and if requested, there will be the association of the appropriate ministers. Secondly, I will answer Mr Dimas's question. Mr Dimas, I have explained that the supplementary pension is provided by the EDEA - as well as by the one-off, but above all by the subsidiary - as compulsory provision to the insured, in the social security context, under the obligation of the single social security institution and the EIF respectively. There is also the specificity that the EDEAP is providing health services, not EOPY, to a section of journalists and workers in electronics and forms, not everyone. There is a peculiarity, a remnant of the multiplicity that existed in these bodies, which has been maintained over the years and for internal reasons. However, for substantial legal reasons it was not possible for the Government to decide unilaterally to intervene earlier and to integrate these branches into the already existing EIF and EEA. Evidently, because there is a provision of law in this regard, the State is not in the hands of its obligations to obtain these benefits. In this context, there is also this provision here, in the law I mentioned, of 2007, which gives the possibility of granting loans for such purposes too. Therefore, there is no issue of injury or of non-injuriousness here. There is one supplementary pension obligation. It's compulsory. It is envisaged that the State will have a permanent legal obligation to ensure that this provision is enjoyed. Therefore, the question is not offered to assess whether or not damage occurs. So objectively, if the EDPS did not pay it, it would be paid by the EIF. Therefore, there is no question of injury and there will be no damage, in the sense of the obligation, to oblige the State to ensure such provision.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u43	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u44	There's no more conversation. We're closed, Mr. Metarakis. In your place to ask questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u45	I'm just saying this so we don't keep Mr. Petropoulos four hours here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u46	It can't be done now. By way of derogation, I did what I did right now. Ask the Minister in private and then place in your speech. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, fifty-four students and students and three educational sessions from the 5th General School of Petroupoli. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Athens II has its honor today! Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. Before I enter the substance of the bill, I should like to make one of the three amendments which have been presented in detail by the ministers, and in particular the amendment on the introduction of 1 May as a compulsory holiday day. Here hypocrisy on the part of the government is really exaggerated. It is a real challenge on the part of SYRIZA - ANEL one week before the commemoration of the Labour Initiative and while it maintains the entire anti-galactic arsenal - and not only maintains this anti-government arsenal built by the former governments of the New Democracy and PASOK, but it continues and prepares new measures in excess of the entire working class and our people - to come, in a way, flattering the working class, to say that "I establish you on this day as a compulsory holiday". The struggle of the working class is unreserved and there is no need for flattery on either side of the government or on the side of the bourgeoisie. The struggles of the working class, the dead workers of Chicago, the two hundred of Cesarean, the smokers of the 1936s in Thessaloniki with a form of communication, such as this amendment, and even when you have literally crushed the people. By actually entering the bill now, I would like to say that the draft law we are debating, ladies and gentlemen, is another link in a chain of legislation aimed at fully incorporating European directives and guidelines for the accreditation and certification system. The main objective of this draft law is the complete functional separation of the National Accreditation System by the Hellenic Institute of Metrology and the Hellenic Standardisation Organisation, in order to implement all the formal commitments of the European Directive 765/2008. Indeed, the Government of SYRIZA - ANEL, the industrialists, the European Union is talking about a confiscated and ill-designed merger of the SYRIZA with the Greek Standardisation Organisation and the Hellenic Institute of Metrology in a single Organisation, the SYRP, by the Government of New Democracy - PASOK in 2013. For us, this is not the bad design, but what they really mean by separating the above entities, which is the essence of the European directive, namely, that in the context of the State monopolistic regulation of protectionism to ensure the objective of the competitiveness of products and services of the European business groups, they are better served by segregating the activities of accreditation bodies from certification and compliance with certain standards by entrusting the first activity, namely that of accreditation, to bodies exclusively controlled by the Member States. In practice, that is to say, it is expressed by the secondment of the National Accreditation System service - which was in the form of an anonymous company - from the National Quality Infrastructure System, the ESS. Thus, a legal person of private public law is established not in the form of a public limited company, but fully controlled by the Greek Government, under the name "National Accreditation System", as an accreditation body for bodies or individuals in the sector, mainly of products and services. However, what one can conclude is that the main axis of the Euro-Union system and these changes promoted by the draft law is the privatised certification of products and procedures with the State to maintain the final role of accreditor of certification bodies, in this case the ECHR, as this will serve more appropriately in modern conditions to the needs of monopolistic groups. The question arises as follows: By privatising certification and by entrusting the market to resolve the problems it creates, can quality problems, which are objectively occurring in the modern production process, be tackled by the certification bodies acting on the basis of profit? The JRC categorically says 'no'. The policy of certification in a system where production criteria are the profit rate and with the State serving this profitability does not lead to pluralist effects. Certification by a quality assurance instrument is objectively converted into a profitability mechanism for both certification bodies and, in particular, the capital parts, which are certified to the detriment of others. Essentially, certification functions objectively and as a mechanism for speeding up concentration and concentration of capital. That is why we all reject the Euro-Union framework of certification with private economic criteria and the legislation that promotes it, such as this draft law. Will anyone say: But does the JRC not want there to be rules and regulations on the market, the certification and accreditation of goods? The JRC makes it clear that the common rules for the certification and accreditation of goods are necessary to ensure and operate the freedoms of the common market in the European Union. The European Directives, like this draft law, have a twofold objective: on the one hand, the armouring and strengthening of the internal market in European Union goods and services and, on the other, the certification of them to function as informal protection mechanisms. Both the theory of the political economy of capitalism and the experience of workers prove one thing: that the common market did not work and could not work for the benefit of workers and the people. On the contrary, won by the European Union are the monopolistic groups, which gain from the enlarged internal market and from the cheaper labour force measures. Thus, bills such as what we are discussing, which are aimed at guaranteeing the common market, do not have a prolific but philosophical character and content, which is why the New Democracy is voting for, invoking the good of the country, as do the other parties, with any individual reservations. It would certainly be funny to vote almost all the articles and vote against the bill. We are not surprised, however, that we have said so before. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government has the same strategy as the previous governments, since what it brings is their own work, it is a service of capital to the detriment of the people. At the same time, the protectionist measures that the European Union is building up by claiming certification are not in fact aimed at more quality products for the people, but at a relative closure of the internal market, by shielding domestic groups from international competition and by stimulating their profitability. Now, in relation to the new private legal person concerned by this draft law, it has some specific aspects and differentiations in relation to the previous scheme: First, it does not take the form of a public limited company with shares, which is why the general meeting is not provided for as a body, but only for a board of directors. It is a legal person of public law, but it will operate on private economic criteria. Secondly, there is a differentiation in the number of members of the board of directors, increasing from 5 to 7, while his term of office is reduced from five years to three years and with only one possibility of renewal. The appointment of the members of the Governing Board is still made by the Government, by decision of the Minister of Economy and Development, simply added and that this appointment is made on a proposal from the bodies represented on the Governing Council. In addition, there is no need for additional qualifications beyond those of general renowned prestige, scientific training or professional experience in the thematic fields of the organisation. It concerns the members of the board of directors, as provided for in Law 3066/2002, and concerned a degree in HSY and a very good knowledge of English, French or German. Thirdly, the role of the relevant Minister in the functioning of the institution is strengthened. This is because the rules of operation of the Management Board will be laid down by a joint Ministerial Decision, and the organisation and administrative structure of the services of the Agency, the number of staff and the allocation of posts to the Agency and qualifications and the conditions of employment and development will also be laid down by a Joint Ministerial Decision introducing a regulation on the organisation and operation of the Agency. Fourthly, the technical committees provided for in the earlier law and the role of assessors and experts, for which a register of specialised executives is being established, are abolished, which may come from the public and private sectors. Fifthly, there is a differentiation in the body's regular resources: from the main source that was the grant from the State budget, the State grant will be given if the budgetary conditions allow it and the main source of revenue will come from its commercial activity, i.e. revenues will be from the provision of the body's services to third parties and from the revenues on the rights to grant and maintain accreditation certificates, with obvious results relating both to the financial pressure on the operator and control on the market and the indirect control on certification bodies, since their accreditation will have a significantly higher cost. The final result will be the lack of accreditation for small enterprises and the concentration of certification in large certified enterprises. It is at least funny to see the financing from the state budget to Article 6 on a regular basis, saying that it will be given when and to the extent that the budgetary conditions allow it, i.e. the recovery of the economy, as the government says. Will this be the case for the capitalists and their state of recovery? A recovery for the profits of the few, the monopolies, the capital. The intensity of exploitation and austerity for the people will not only stop, but escalate with a new attack on labour rights, new tax revenues, new pension cuts, what remains of social services. Next two issues which are introduced into the draft law, perhaps the most important ones, which mirror the pursuits of the Government, the European Union and the monopoly capital, are: firstly, the strong presence of representatives of industrialists in the bodies of the body, and the compulsory participation of a elected representative of workers in the body. In the board of directors of the body set up, in addition to a representative of the Greek Industrial Association, there will also be a representative of the Association of Industries of Northern Greece, and in the auxiliary body of the body, the National Accreditation Board continues to provide for the participation of the BSE representative. The participation of the industrialists in the board of directors of the accreditation body with a representative designated by the bodies shows that the large capital wants, in addition to its direct control, direct participation and supervision in the functioning of the body. It is clear, however, that the body in the final analysis controls the members of the BSE. Article 4 is unacceptable and in the formal sense that requires a substantial separation of control and control. Secondly, it is a question of transferring staff from the National Quality Infrastructure System to the vehicle created with the legislative instrument with the same work relationship, but it is not a single one. It has private law of indefinite duration, it has a project contract, it has a leased order. What does the draft law provide for and what issues were raised at the hearing of the bodies? Firstly, there was the risk that the bodies such as the Hellenic Institute of Metrology and the ELO would be transformed into debris. They're actually deceived. It curtails their operation and leads to a public financial burden by serving monopoly interests on the market. Secondly, it is only for 15 days to allow the transported staff to be presented to the new body. Otherwise, compensation is to be disbursed, except for any other payment for the withdrawal of the service. Thirdly, existing workers in the RIS are transferred to the new body to the extent that they serve its needs, leaving a 'blue' to assess the staff that may not be part of this category. There will be a dramatic downsizing of the National Accreditation System, since a large part of its operation is entrusted to external partners. Consequently, and on the basis of all the above, the JRC is voting against the draft law in principle and on the articles. Allow me - and I close with this, Mr President - to make a comment on the amendment tabled yesterday concerning the granting of a loan by the ECA to the Single Journalistic Insurance and Cares Agency for Cash Needs. We're not going to vote on it. The JRC is of the opinion that not only should the Single Reporting and Health Insurance Agency not be closed, but instead stand on its feet and ensure that all workers' insurance, pension rights. It is only the government that has responsibility for it. With this amendment, the government is prolonging the loose end, and it is even more pressing for workers in the logic of 'let the cash deficit be temporarily closed now, do not shout, do not mobilize'. It is well known that since September the ad has been finished, and it is also known that employers have never paid it. The EFF over the years has been overshadowed by its passage to the EFCA. And this conclusion reached EUR 900 million, due to the merger, plus EUR 120 million from the PSI haircut. Even today, the 3% paid by the workers, is holding it down. The JRC strongly reacts to the dismantling of the social security and calls for the problem to be solved once and for all with the sole responsibility of the State, but not with borrowing and even under pressure of repayment until 31/12/2017. If the government wanted to commit the sums from the employer's debts, which it has never paid, a substantial part of the cash deficit could really be solved. In the end, and in any case, about one billion must be returned back from the stolen funds and not in the form of borrowing. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u48	We proceed with Mr. George Lazaridis on behalf of the Independent Greeks. Here, Mr Lazarides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now being called upon to ratify a bill - essentially the 2008 European Directive - which is important for the proper functioning of export operations as this bill provides for the independence of the National Accreditation System, the USSR. The purpose of the arrangement is to regulate compliance of the National Accreditation System with Community legislation, in particular with Community Regulation 765/2008, in particular with regard to the impartiality and independence of Accreditation Services and the management of the revenues of the National Accreditation Body. This draft law includes necessary and urgent arrangements for the establishment of a legal person under the name ‘National Accreditation System’, the ESRB, in order to ensure that this incompatibility is removed and that the National Accreditation Body is uninterrupted in the context of market surveillance rules. The proposed draft law, as well as its arrangements, is necessary for the Greek economy and for enterprises active in the field of evaluation as well as for companies exporting products, while the establishment of the RIS ensures the obligation to comply with national legislation. The relief brought to the exporters by his statement is great because Greek certificates of quality would not be recognised, which guarantee the products and services to be exported by the Greek certification companies, and we would not in fact be able to export within the European Union. In its resolution, therefore, the ESRB will not be subject to the National System of Quality Infrastructures, which is forbidden by Community legislation, and the risk of freezing the export activity of the country as from 27 April would not be recognised as a European accreditation body. As mentioned at the meetings of the committee responsible, the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development meets the conditions set by EA, European Accreditation Cooperation, and therefore no negative decision is expected for Greece. Facilitation and strengthening of exports is the objective of the bill, which harmonises the system of certification of Greek products in European data, and the Independent Greeks vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, too. You were fast and comprehensive. Mr. Marios Georgiadis has the floor. It is now missing, so I move on to Mr Dannelly, and Mr Georgiadis will be given the floor later. Here, Mr. Dannelly, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are reintroducing an extremely useful system for the Greek economy and, above all, for the export of the organization, which we ourselves were supposed to reform by merging it with other agencies and structures that ultimately proved incompatible. The story is as follows: In 2011, under pressure from the immediate reorganisation of the state machine following our agreement with partners, a private company with funds from the NRP after a study had prepared a first list of two hundred and fifty five organisations that should be merged or abolished, the famous 'Pangalou list'. The objective, the reduction of the five-year old Karamanlis public and the reduction of its operating costs. Subsequently, in 2013, the Samara Government, in order to send a message to creditors in this direction, continued in a hurry - unfortunately - and without a sign of redesign and reviewing of the real needs, the existing programme of abolitions and mergers of public institutions. Result, along with dry, burns some freshwater. Thus, in the context of the above mergers, the National System of Quality Infrastructures was created, the ESS, in which the ESS, the Greek Standardisation Agency, the ELO and the National Institute of Metrology, the EIM were integrated. The merger took place even though the European Accreditation Body had serious objections and objections to the incompatibility of the three agencies. In particular, European Accreditation Cooperation, the NSA, had pointed out that under Regulation 765/2008 the ESRB must have a full distinction and independence of the accreditation activities it provided. In a simple way, in 2013 the Greek Parliament legislated reform, but not reforming, after directly violating Community legislation and defining the requirements for accreditation and market surveillance. The natural result of this was that the European Accreditation Office would ask even more strongly for the independence of the ECHR to be safeguarded in order to keep up with European standards. The scope for complying with the Community directive was until 28 February 2017, i.e. one month about, and it is expected to be decided to suspend recognition of all accreditations provided by the ECHR if there is no compliance. And this is exactly where the responsibility of the current government lies. For, to be fair, we have to point out that the SYRIZA Government - ANEL for the last two years has been responsible for its own governance. However, the problem has not been found in the last two years, but, on the contrary, it has been following us from the past. The adventure of the National Accreditation System, which has reached the point of threatening its very existence, offers us an opportunity. Let me point out here that today, 25 of the month, until the day after 27 April, it is expected to decide to suspend the recognition of all the accreditations provided by the ECHR, if we do not comply, as we say, that is, if today's legislative initiative is not completed by its vote. This adventure, which is so critical for our national economy, provides us with an opportunity to monitor the operation of the political system as a whole, which, unfortunately, we are stubbornly denying. But I think it is now imperative, because we need to see why all this is happening from the small to the big. It is an opportunity to look for the reasons of malignancy and chronic pathogens, the spasmodic way in which we legislate for the sake of circumvention, pressure or rhetoric on a case-by-case basis, an opportunity to see how we are dealing with our obligations in relation to European reality, in relation to our common European home and with the rules that we are shaping or having to interact with our partners. And I mention all of this, because the issue of the USSR has not come down. On the contrary, we were already aware of it in 2008 and in 2013 we chose to ignore it, although it was evident that there was a problem of compatibility with our European obligations. But what will be the exact consequences if European cooperation withdraws its recognition of the respective Greek body? What is at stake for the Greek economy and especially for already problematic Greek exports? What is essentially at stake is a Grexit of Greek products and services by the European accreditation system. We in the Potami, in time, pointed this out with a question to the Minister of Economy and Development, because I do not know whether the range of services and products that depend on the existence or not of the National Accreditation System has been understood. In particular and entirely selective, in the advent of suspending the recognition of the ESRB. from the relevant European Agency, all the bodies and laboratories certified by it should be directed to other relevant European countries in order to continue to operate unreservedly and without question on the quality and safety of the services they provide, of course, and the additional costs. Secondly, side and serious losses are created, not only in the export sector, as I have said, but also in the provision of health services, but also in tourism. This is because the international recognition of all kinds of laboratories, from the EOF and the General Chemistry of the State to the laboratories of the Ministry of Rural Development and Health, the hospitals, universities and individuals is abolished. In other words, the safety of all laboratories in the health sector is questioned, and this to the general public means that they will face a problem in accredited hospitals such as "Advertising", "Saint Savvas" etc. In relation to tourism, a problem arises as there will be no reliable classification of hotels and their services in internationally recognised categories, in the well-known keymarks or in the stars. Thirdly, we will also have consequences for another sector, from which we are looking forward. I am referring to this agri-food sector, as exports of agricultural products will not be able to obtain reliable certificates. For example, exporters will have problems, for example, of olive oil once they are unable to certify the quality of their products and this extends, among others, to producers/exporters of vegetables, who will not be able to ‘accompany’ their products with recognised certificates for the existence of or not pesticide residues. In addition, it will not be possible to certify the safety of products with the CE mark by the Greek institutions. For example, Greek toy crafters will not be able to obtain the CE certificates for the safety of their goods outside Greece, since the relevant trade mark by the Greek competent authorities will not be recognised outside the Greek borders. Furthermore, the Greek industry without the necessary certificates will not have access to international markets and contracts, such as the purchase of gaseous pollutants for PPC, refineries, etc. We will have a problem with the computer know-how and computer skills system, but also with other data on us products and services, which have to do with the control of children's playgrounds, the installation of photovoltaic parks etc. You see, it's a wide range of services and products that are affected. And I am referring to these cases, because they are characteristic, thinking that the adventure of the ECHR and its associated functions is best suited to us in terms of dealing with vital issues which are of concern and, above all, being offered for a course of self-awareness. Ladies and gentlemen, today, at the very last moment, we are coming to institutionalise the reseparation of the National Accreditation Agency from the National Quality Infrastructure System as an autonomous now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u52	Mr. Dannelly, I'm going to interrupt you for a second to make an announcement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u53	You're welcome, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, forty-three students and students and three school attendants from the 2nd General School of Kallithea (Second Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Keep going, Mr. Dannelly, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u55	The bill, therefore, which we are discussing today constitutes a legal person under private law called the "National Accreditation System", which belongs to the wider public sector and is supervised by the Minister of Economy and Development. The organisation is now part of the independent operation of the group called “National Accreditation System”, which will be seconded by the National Quality Infrastructure System, to which it has been incorporated under Law 4109/2013. The ESRB will be run by a seven-member board, while the staff currently belonging to the independent operational group within the ESRB will be transferred to the new legal entity under private law. To sum up and close my position, I would like to say that we should finally put aside the hypocritical approaches, the shifts of responsibilities between successive governments and all those superficial micro-political tactics in which our political system unfortunately enjoys to serve and consume over time. Why did we have to wait nine years and six successive governments to realize that we were once again with the back on the wall, without having understood the incompatibility of these up to this point of our moves? Why even today do we legislate without any visible timetables for implementing the provisions, as I said in the committee's articles? How long will we tolerate our chronic pathogens, instead of looking at them in the face, instead of practically dealing with them? History proves that not only the current government, but many of the previous governments, are responsible for the ESRB. It also shows that any reform cannot take place without the interpretation of European regulations and rules. However, most importantly, it shows that the reduction of public policy and state reform, which are at the centre of the public debate throughout the years of the memorandum, cannot be carried out by spasmist movements, but rather by seriousness, planning and effective adoption by us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u56	Thank you. We close the circle of rapporteurs and special speakers with Mr Marios Georgiadis from the Centro Association. Immediately after that Mr Haritsis will speak, and I will give Mr Loverdos the floor, because the Group of the European Democratic Alliance has a meeting. Then, they will follow the series of parliamentary representatives and speakers alternately, i.e. a parliamentary representative and two colleagues. I think we'll be done at about 16:00. Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u57	Happy birthday to everyone, because it is the first plenary legislative session after Easter, and especially to those who have not been able to wish. Ladies and gentlemen, I must confess to the fact that we in the Central Association expected that there would be methodicity and order in Parliament in drawing up and voting for the laws. We thought that urgency or urgency would be an exception, not the rule, since it is demonstrated every time that the government knew months, if not years before, the legislative needs, only some people were obviously indifferent from either the current government or from the previous ones, to be fair to everyone. It was incomprehensible for us that anything irrelevant could be tabled as an amendment to a draft law. We have all learned here, with the SYRIZA - ANEL Government at the moment, because we did not have the experience from the previous governments. We know, of course, that post-cultural PASOKs and New Democracy were the first teachers, but SYRIZA has upgraded this method to a postgraduate level, since we are meeting it every day on the agenda. In particular, the draft law is ten pages and we have four amendments. The first one is for the Daymare. Suddenly, the Day was once a strike, now it's official holiday and we all know that no one goes to work and is at the discretion of at least the private sector. The amendment to the Mayor's Day is five pages. The amendment to grant the ECA loan to the journalists' fund is another five pages. The Education Ministry's amendment is fifteen pages and the amendment to the Undeclared Labour Committee another fifteen pages. Total? There are forty pages of amendments for a ten-page draft law. Therefore, four times the draft law is the amendments. If this legislative process is not considered unacceptable, I do not know what else it is considered! I'm sorry, but he doesn't agree to us. However, the elementary political education and the modesty that has to go hand in hand with the low-level parliamentary majority - because, badly lies, the SYRIZA - ANEL represents only 15% of the people - require a review of the way in which the parliamentary work is carried out. And to prove what I have just said, I would not find a more appropriate example than the current draft law, especially the amendment number 1019 and a special 7 of the Ministry of Education, which undermines the examination system and lures students and parents into irregularities and strange transactions. Indeed - and the rapporteur, Mr Christos Dimas, mentioned this forty-two days before the examination period, and all you can create is confusion. First of all, I have to say that we are clearly in favour of maintaining the facility for those students who have the misfortune to suffer during the June pan-Hellenic examinations. However, facilitating something human and extraordinary and other state, industrial and large-scale reproduction. In more detail, the opportunity for health or mental repetitive participation in the pan-Hellenic examinations for higher education in September is unacceptable for the following reasons: The term ‘serious health ratio’ is not specified. What does "serious health ratio" mean? Who considers that a reason for health is a serious reason? It's totally subjective and has no evidence of objectivity. The explanatory statement mentions'some health problem' and 'health problem' in general, leaving too much room for interpretations. It also obliges unexplained pupils to be re-examined in all courses, including those initially examined, before the health problem arises. This results in the creation of two speed candidates, because it is not possible for all four courses to be in September with the same difficult issues as those of June. It also provides incentives for virtual statements of illness, making the exception - rule, despite the fact that only 0.5% of posts per school correspond to this category, which will ultimately create thousands of "patients", with only earned the misconduct, which will naturally be waging during the summer months. In addition, it favours over-throwers who declare June disease, because those who were re-examined in September, even if they were troubled by their illness, are given the exaggerated, even for four lessons, three additional months of preparation, which is very wrong for those who were examined in June and had just a few weeks to prepare. It closes, of course, to those candidates who realize that they have not written well in the first two or three lessons and spreads the gates wide open to virtual medical evidence. In September, however, the bases will have already been issued and those involved in the repetitive examinations will have the privilege of selecting schools in the knowledge of these bases. Ladies and gentlemen, it is unacceptable to give such incentives to minor pupils, to sell, with the wishes of the state, hopes for a second chance, and to destroy the album, with an obvious aim of voting for the seventeen years. After all, it is clear that the withdrawal of this unlikely amendment is needed here and now, at least in the way it has been drafted. What we propose, in order to avoid the mess you have created, is, on the one hand, to clarify what "serious health ratio" means and to maintain the situation as it is or simply repetitive tests to be transferred to the end of June, marginally before the start of the educational holidays and, of course, only for the lessons or lessons in which one was unable to participate in the normal period. As for cases of mental distress, these are actually measured, proven, since they deal only with cases caused by a relative’s death and can, of course, be dealt with. After the official ban on the teaching of ancient Greeks, following the depreciation of national historical events, after the downgrading of the teaching of our Orthodox Christian faith, we in the Central Association are very concerned about the education provided to our youth. We're going to the main draft law now. Because of the government's failure - and I am not talking at this time to Mr Haritsis, the Minister, because he quite rightly said in the debate we had, that only five months had taken this post, so the time to be informed was not enough, so this draft law may also normally have come at this time - but also in general with the procedures of the Ministry until Mr Haritsis took over, the National Accreditation System of the country is at risk - to lose his European recognition because of the non-compliance of the provisions of Regulation 765 of 2008, which is the necessary precondition for holding the membership of the European co-operation for Accreditation. This body, therefore, has set as the end date of compliance on 27 April 2017, i.e. in two days from now, tomorrow, before the recognition of all the credentials provided by the Greek ECHR is suspended, of course. We are talking about the collapse of the domestic market in certification services, in which around 100 companies are currently active, employing more than two thousand workers, but also about the recovery of exports and trade for many products and services. I am tabling a motion for a resolution on the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In addition, the loss of recognition of the ESRB affects, directly or indirectly, more than fifty thousand enterprises, which employ 26% of the total labour force and accounts for 18% of GDP. I am presenting for the Minutes of the 'KATHMERINI'. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes this article, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I think you're aware of this. I submitted them to the committees. I put it again for this House, for those colleagues who have not been able to take it. As we have seen in the committee at the hearing of the bodies, the concern of market players was evident. All of their representatives have reminded us that they have repeatedly warned the Ministry of Delays. While we see that the private sector in time did its duty and the relevant publications rained, the Ministry was probably whistling indifferently and accepted only on 10 February - and this may also be due to the Minister who took over now, because he wanted to prevent the situation - to issue a statement informing that there is no risk, because the bill is in the water. I am presenting the relevant communication from the Ministry for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Sixty days we have waited for the so-called outdated legislation. So we can rightly ask: why did a whole campaign of bodies and a series of publications need to be awakened - how he says - the responsible ones? With such behaviour as the official state, can serious investors ever come and put their money in that country? Unfortunately, our country is treating itself as a pirate in the civilised Western countries. Even when the Minister shared the concern of a number of actors on various issues of transition to the new regime, he called on the parties to dialogue and to submit proposals to the deadline -'slower than ever', of course - and they say - while he had the comfort of months, to do so earlier, of course, the previous governments. To be fair, of course, the problem was initiated by the previous government, the New Democracy and the PASOK, which, in its mania of saving resources, merged the ELO with the National Institute of Metrology and the National Accreditation System. This, in contravention of Community legislation, as Europe requires a clear, distinctive character to the national accreditation system, in accordance with criterion 3 of membership. I am presenting for the Minutes what they say about members of Europe. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] All right, of course, colleagues in the New Democracy - Mrs Bakoyannis and Mr Karaoglou - have made frequent questions, showing their anxiety, but it would be better to fight three years ago and force their government to legislate as it should. After all, with the merger at the time, however outrageous it may sound, the control coexisted with the person controlled. In particular, the National Institute of Metrology is involved in evaluation activities, while Community legislation stipulates that accreditation must be financially self-powered and the national body independent of the bodies it assesses, in accordance with criteria 4 and 7 of membership. Nevertheless, the draft law was tabled with relief, although, according to what was said at the hearing, there are many problems for the other two organisations, for ELO and for the National Metrology System, and solutions should soon be launched. It is therefore necessary to immediately separate the certification body from the metrology body and the Greek Standardisation Organisation in accordance with European standards. For the main body of provisions now, no serious objections are raised. In Article 3, the standards of the member of the National Accreditation Board should be made more specific, because the validity and broad scientific training are subjective, and we need more objective and measurable criteria to stop customer and party logic. The same applies to the seven-member Council of the ESRB, to Article 4, regardless of whether some former members leave. There could be a requirement for publications in international scientific journals or postgraduate or doctoral degrees or participation in international and domestic conferences, as well as specific pre-service requirements in relevant public and private positions. Article 6 rightly refers, in our view, to expanded revenue resources. In general, it is not permissible for a body to be financed by the State budget, where it can easily survive with resources required to be certified, but also from the sources of revenue referred to in this Article. We believe in paragraph 6 of the ninth article that it would be useful to include as supervisor an external factor as an asset assessor in order to ensure a greater degree of transparency. In conclusion, most of the articles are seen with a positive eye. We have put it positive at the outset. You will allow us to put in detail the vote on the amendments and the amendments, because we do not know whether they are 100% in line with the positions and beliefs of the Union of Centres. Ladies and gentlemen, as a Central Association, and as long as the current government lasts, we will do everything we can to ensure that the ship is in a pro-European direction. Let us hope that the next governments, or even from now on, will be in the process of respecting parliamentary work properly and prudently, necessary for a modern and European country. I would once again mention that there are forty pages of amendments to a ten-page draft law. This is unacceptable in Parliament's Chamber. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u58	To clarify the Minutes: Mr Georgiadis obviously said to withdraw the corresponding article on the amendment on the examinations. It's still an amendment. It has been discussed in committee and incorporated into the bill. I think it's Article 12. The request shall therefore include withdrawing the corresponding Article. If it's 12, then retire 12. Minister, you have the floor for 20 minutes. I give you more time, because you might have to answer. Immediately after the reason I said, Mr. Loverdos will speak and we will start. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with this draft law we are reconstituting the National Accreditation System, the ESRB, as an independent body, in order to meet the criteria laid down in European legislation. The problem we come to solve with this bill was created in 2013, when the then coexistence of the New Democracy and PASOK decided to merge bad - badly, without study and planning, the National System of Accreditation with the Hellenic Standardisation Organisation, ELOT, and with the National Institute of Metrology, the EIM, to a single organisation then, the National System of Quality Infrastructures. In fact, in spite of the recommendations made by the European Commission and the reactions of the workers of the USSR, the government then proceeded with this merger in time, but also with all the stakeholders who pointed out that the Community law is being violated and the operating standards set by the European authority supervising the ECHR are not being complied with. The recommendations of the European Commission have been expressly formulated as early as 2012, when the intentions of the government at the time to merge bodies had been known, but unfortunately these recommendations were completely ignored. For this reason, I am presenting in the Minutes a letter from the European Commission dated 24-10-2012. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister, Alexandros Haritsis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] After all, I would remind you that in other countries where such an attempt was made to merge the relevant operators, these countries have been released from the European system. However, even worse, this merger created an incompatibility as the accreditation body, the ESRB, and one of the accredited entities, were found in the same body. In other words, the auditor and the auditer were in the same body. At the same time, this regulation infringed the European Regulation which stipulates that the profits of the accreditation body can only be made available for the purposes of financing it and not for the activities of other bodies. The financial and administrative autonomy of the ESRB was not guaranteed and could not be guaranteed in the single body. It was, therefore, with 2013 regulation, a triple violation of European Regulation 765/2008, which was made known in time to the then government. In its context, however, the government should show reform work and show that it restricts the state to this merger, which the European supervisory body and the European Commission naturally have never accepted. This merger jeopardised not only the domestic certification industry, which numbered dozens of companies and over two thousand employees, but also Greek exports themselves. Starting with a deep neoliberal idea of undermining and depreciating the public, the 2013 regulation created huge problems in the functioning of the three merged entities, but even more has caused a lot of disruption in the private economy, to producers and businesses, with the risk of being expelled from the European accreditation system, which, if it were, would have tragic consequences for the economy as a whole. These are the risks that we are going through with this bill. However, it should be stressed, because we are talking about bad planning, that this arrangement that took place in 2013, in addition to the hastily and misdesigned merger, served another feasibility: the government then chose to weld the three heterogeneous agencies in order to finance two defects, ELO and EIM, by an excess agency, as was and is the ECHR. But how ELOT has come to become a deficit is another very sad story too, which we should draw. In 2011, with Law 4002, the government withdrew the certification services from EOT and transferred them to another body, to EBITAM, thus depriving the agency and the public revenues of around EUR 800,000 per year. At the same time, ELOT was disfellowshipped from the qualified staff, who now went to the private sector. The result was to turn a profitable organisation with an important role in the private economy into a deficit, to the detriment of the state budget. As if not all of this were enough, the transfer of the certification industry to another body was almost a year late to take place, a time when the ELO's certification services went to private companies, so that these important public revenues were lost for ever. Unfortunately, the government at the time meant rationalising and limiting State spending, direct transfer of public resources to private individuals. This was aimed at the despicable and irregular merger of the three agencies in 2013. You will allow me to say that this irresponsible policy against the public interest should lead those responsible for the then government to bear political costs and not now to be presented as honorers, when we are trying to correct the broken choices of their own. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] So this is what we have received. Unlike our predecessors, however, we did not go along with confiscated actions which would try to solve a problem, but which would create more problems in the future. We have proceeded with an exhaustive dialogue with all the stakeholders, so that we can reach the best possible solution, which will ensure, on the one hand, that incompatibility with European law is lifted, but also restore the National Accreditation System as a body for the exercise of public authority - and, on the other hand, defines, literally, the European regulation, as a body for the exercise of public authority - in compliance with European standards and will ensure the public interest. This whole time we are also in constant communication and consultation with the competent European Accreditation Authority, so that the solution in which we eventually end up meeting European criteria and restoring the validity of the National Accreditation Agency, ensuring its institutional role. We have moved systematically to prevent the risk of the Greek accreditation system being exterminated from the European system. We have therefore come to the conclusion in this bill, through which an independent public accreditation body is established in the form of a legal person governed by private law. This, as we have pointed out in committee, was also the opinion - at the request of our own - and the Legal Council of the State, that is to say, that the legal form should be finally chosen. We are particularly pleased that, in the relevant debate that took place in the committee, the bill was dealt with positively by all stakeholders who came to the debate. The bill removes the incompatibility and safeguards the sustainability and international recognition of the National Accreditation System in accordance with Community law, protects the accreditation service sector in the country and ensures Greek exports. In relation to the composition of the board of directors, since we are talking about a public body, which exercises public authority, in accordance with European standards, of course the Greek State has the majority of the members of the board of directors, and I do not understand why the rapporteur of the JRC also considered this point. From now on, however, we are expanding the participants, adding a elected worker representative - which was also a constant demand for workers in the sector - and the involvement of the producer bodies is being extended to the new management board. At the same time, we are making the National Accreditation Board more representative, extending representation with the participation of a representative of the Association of Greek Chemicals and the Professional Scientific Training Association for Engineering. Overall, we are upgrading a critical public institution, which ensures the orderly functioning of the economy, the health and safety of citizens. Of course, this bill - and I would also agree with some of the rapporteurs of the opposition parties - can only be the first step. There is a need for much more to deal with the pathogens that have accumulated over the past few years in the accreditation and certification system. That is why the Ministry of Economy proceeds directly with the signing of a ministerial decision, within the next week, to set up a working group of experienced and qualified staff from our Ministry - from the Secretariat-General of Industry - and also with the participation of representatives of all the stakeholders concerned, so that we can jointly proceed with a comprehensive reform of the country's standardisation, certification and accreditation framework, with the aim of upgrading the services provided, ensuring all jobs to all three agencies - the concern of this committee, which is reasonable and through this committee we will address the issues arising from the secession of operators - and, of course, the protection of the general public interest as a whole. We therefore proceed to the necessary areas for the reconstruction of public administration for the benefit of society, the citizens and the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Minister. Mr Andreas Loverdos has the floor for twelve minutes. He wants to speak now, to precede, because he is next meeting of his party's parliamentary group. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u61	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Michalis Jelelis has been placed on behalf of the Democratic Alliance on the draft law, in a clear way, and also on the Standing Committee today. I'm not going to make a reference to the draft law. I share his views. I shall, however, refer to specific amendments. In carrying out my duties as a parliamentary representative, I would like to make some points about the elections in France and on general issues relating to the political systems in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, we entered 2017, in a year of many intersections and at a time when many believe that the United States model, with the Trump election, will find repetitions, will find correspondence in Europe. We had two returning elections: in the Netherlands, in which Wilders - for many the winner who would bring'strub' overturns to the European Union - lost and Rute defeated, and in France, where, in the wake of the reclassifications and the conflict between demagogy, populism and the serious needs of the people to address the new problems, such as immigration - I would remind you that, according to studies in the United Kingdom, there were only a hundred million people from global warming for the 21st century, only old issues, such as poverty and the weakness of the systems, which are primarily and impotence to the social-democratic parties actually do the redistribution. So the second result comes in the upset: populism is losing against a state and the populists on both sides are losing. What countries? In France and the Netherlands, the founding countries of the EEC and its transition to the European Union, which were the countries whose peoples had said no in the referendums on the European Constitution a few ten years ago. That is where the people of Europe have been contacting the phenomenon of what governments in the Member States of the European Union, dealing with the development of the European Union, have been asking for under-negatives. This is not a new phenomenon of the victory of populism. It is older and there are problems on which this populism is based, such as the incomprehensible language of Brussels and the need to overcome - in practice they are not yet overrun - the strangles of an old age, which have remained and, above all, bind social democracy, which cannot be European parties, which have established social redistribution and have defended the rule of law, to be able to speak about the rule of law in the 21st century with this immigration - illegal immigration and that of the unsatisfied citizens, who either in countries of crisis have huge problems of survival or have problems of social equilibrium, such as countries which have not been faced with the crisis like us. What's going on? Remember the example of Austria, where there also lost populism and demagogy in the face of Hoffer. What do we have, after all? The only country where populism has won to be Greece and where he descended three glorious victories, even so that people are now in the unpleasant position to understand that they were deceived by the government of lies and indulgence. Why is it when one supports a government that overturned all its beliefs, all its supports, all its objectives? This morning I listened to the discussions about the Greek Port Authority and I remembered in November 2014 the Prime Minister saying that he would cancel the privatisation of the EAT and seek criminal responsibilities, as he said. This man is a prime minister and celebrates the opposite! Was it the only one? I see the former Minister of Commerce, and I remember the port of Piraeus, the mismatch that made it difficult for him as a moral man and within the Greek Parliament. We lived through the mutations and how much they cost him, in our view as political opponents and not enemies. You have seen with enmity the parties of previous governance and on our bodies you have had parties. You have trampled us, to be today the unworthy who sit in the cabinet and say: "The EGH is privatized." It's privately privatized, in fact. You! Only an example, therefore, where populism won is Greece and the United States, of course, after Greece. Now peoples will see - because the next few days are crucial - how this victory of non-populist forces, whatever they are, is translated into a positive act for the citizens and for the course of Europe. Europe cannot speak, ladies and gentlemen, in the bureaucratic way it speaks today. Those who support this phenomenon must do so in a strong way and our language is perceived to the citizen and, above all, our actions are consistent with what we say and we must provide real solutions for what it is concerned about. What's he doing? Above all, the economy is working. Where is the economy? Months go through the famous negotiation, which eventually eliminates the citizens' agenda, without making any profit. It adds defeats, because new things are coming into the table, which wasn't last year, which you didn't calculate in October, and which, however, has slowly become data and you've been serving them and looking for a way of serving them. Looking for how to serve them, time is wasted, new problems arise. The figures for the first five months and six months of 2017 will create tasks for you or the next governments for new measures, outside what you are now saying in the autumn of 2018. Ladies and gentlemen, the people disapprove you. He'll show it to you in the election whenever you do it. There you'll be looking for your old self - I mean him after 2012 - and you won't find him. Here comes the next day of defeat, that you'll taste as you deserve. We have a lot to talk about, but we have time. It is not today's agenda. Now to say a few things about the amendments made by the Ministry of Labour. Mrs Ahtsoglou came here and tried with the holidays to show a charity. The charity you showed him with the insurance and work and, when you bring the measures to the House, the Greek people will understand it much better. Leave the terminals and the well-known philosophies of the people's friends. You are enemies of the people, you are not saved with these so-called interventions. He then spoke to the repository State Secretary for Social Services, who has to deal with the problems of the FBI. Have you read, ladies and gentlemen, about the surplus of the 100 million ECA? Some Members in the House played it. They didn't ask what this surplus was? They ask whether the 70 million per month to be allocated to Greece by the European Union has been added to cover the late pensions, which have to be paid by October, or are they lost? Have they seen how many pensions beyond these are delayed in order to keep the FBI accounts? Are you aware, when you made the semester report, that you will need to those you have flattered with smaller contributions to request notes? Have you seen these? You don't care about that, because you're bragging about the communal profit of the second, the minute, the week. You can't see that you're losing the land under your feet. Here comes Mrs Ahtsoglou to tell us to vote to establish a undeclared employment section on the board. What's this? We have told you a thousand times that in the face of problems establishing state units is not a solution. You're making fun of what's going on. You're telling us how much money a job controller gets to go from county to control, why the other county doesn't have auditors? Are you telling us how much you give him for the night? Does his car have gasoline? Is the car working to do the checks? What are you saying we're setting up undeclared jobs? Does the place need a study? As you pass on to him theories of growth without growth, you will be passed on to him theories of social control without social control. Who are you kidding? No one's fooling around. You're mocking yourself to self-baptize the left. I don't know what's left, but you're the ones that're about to be, you're not. You are enemies of the people and not friends of the people. Finally, in relation to an amendment by the Ministry of Education, I asked Mr Gavroglou last Thursday about the children who go to the pan-Hellenic, but, as we know, some of them have some accidents, they have health issues, they cannot give all or some of the tests. We talked about it and allow me, Mr President, to speak for another or two minutes. We had proposed an amendment - Mr Constantopoulos, please confirm - and we told him not to change the old system. If a young man cannot do what he has to do for all his exams or lose one or two, he can, as he did, give at that time a few days later and so, when the rest of his contestant children are closed, he will also close during the examination period. You came out with the flag that you abolished this and once and for all, come on in time. When you saw the popular reactions, we were the first parliamentary group - Mr Constantopoulos, the first - which we tabled an amendment that Mr Gavroglou refused, a laudable one. There are children, my daughter among them, who believe that changes have been made to the introductory system in universities and TEI. They think they're done. They believe children in many statements and interviews that they have been made, while they are still pending. In the words of the Minister, therefore, once he saw the reactions, he refused our amendment, but said he would see it again. What brings you today to vote? Firstly, those children who will have the misfortune to consider in September will have to go back a long time. Second, even if they missed some lessons, they'll give it all. If in some schools there are no places left for admissionees, what will happen? He doesn't answer that either. We have pointed out the problem. You're turning against young children and we don't understand why you're doing it. We said you were enemies of the people for the economy. But here, where there's no question of economy, why? What are you, in order to think in this way, uneducatively, not comprehending problems that have new children in a very hard period of time for their course? We will see what we are going to do with the amendment, because, on the other hand, abolishing this is a great mistake. But also the correction you made, this remorse, doesn't give the things and the faces fair. It creates injustice. In any case, we will see our attitude to this amendment, after we meet specifically on this matter. In closing, I'll tell you our last sentence. You bring questions which you have denounced and sentenced to the Greek Parliament. You are advancing the reformists and the people of the economy. People don't change. They may be devoured, but they don't change. What is - bad or good - remains. If you've put yourself a builder of supposedly modernisation, you haven't, because you don't believe it. While you're staying in power, you're destroying everything you're handling. I do not have time to discuss it in detail, but I will tell you that an example is PPC. While you're still staying, with your choices, you'll be ruined. How many legal persons have you left that you haven't destroyed, two, three? You're going to destroy this, too, so you can deliver it all from the beginning to the next. Whoever you're in the field of the economy, you need to think about it again. If you want to hear the opposition, which cannot impose institutional solutions, but gives political propositions, it is up to you to leave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Eleni Alonitou from SYRIZA has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill "N.P.I.D. Recommendation. the name ‘National Accreditation System and other provisions’ is intended to correct a legitimisation error made by Law.4109/2013 when, in an effort to abolish and mitigate public bodies, a carabine infringement of European Regulation 765/2008 was legislated. They were then the first months of the New Democracy - PASOK coup d'état, and their first concern was to be seen as kings of the king or Europeans of the Community. They were then asked to limit the size of the state, which in Europe means limiting the issues on which the state has competence. They understood - or did what they understood - that they had to limit the number of state structures and the number of employees. They always messed up the functions with the structures. So, whatever organization they found, having a name like someone else, they were slapping them together in an organization. Thus, then, the New Democracy - PASOK co-government merged to a legal person under private law, the National Quality Infrastructure System, three different organisations, namely the Hellenic Standardisation Organisation, the Hellenic Institute of Metrology and the National Accreditation System, despite the explicit prohibition of Article 8 of European Regulation 765/2008, which requires national accreditation bodies to be fully independent. However, the practical result of this violation is that we are in danger of losing Greece's National Accreditation System. This would, in turn, leave without international recognition hundreds of Greek testing and calibration laboratories, independent laboratories and industrial laboratories, so that their certificates would not be accepted outside Greece. He would still leave without certification Greek export industries, so that their products would not be accepted in Europe. It would be an amazingly targeted blow to Greek exports and would be the result of a Greek law, your own law, the New Democracy - PASOK coexistence. This risk had been identified before the law was passed, and even by the Commission itself. What does the Commission know, however, from this in front of the "liquids" of Greek rhetorical paleomatism? That's how we run today to collect them. Tomorrow, then, the Council of the Multilateral Agreement of the European Accreditation is meeting in Sofia and we will, as a matter of urgency, be running, in order to inform them that, at last, we have restored Greek legislation to Community law, so that our exports are not taken away from us. The vicious thing is that the perpetrators of the case, instead of saying a simple "we made a mistake, my baby," they insulted us on top of the committee that we are creating a new legal person to make routine recruitments. What can people do, they judge the odds! This is an answer to the rapporteur in New Democracy that they do not have a sterile opposition. On the other hand, this is very good, because they want a better example of how the New Democracy is negotiating? When the institutions say 'take measures', what are they doing? Not only are they taking the measures requested by the institutions, but they are taking measures so much and so much, as they have done with the merger of the three agencies in one, despite the violation of the European regulation and always, of course, at the expense of the public interest. Ladies and gentlemen, I can see, however, that the 'persistent Europeans' usually have no idea what is happening in Europe, what we have undertaken and what our participation in the European Union entails. Just in any reactive measure that they want to impose for other reasons, they throw you a "Europe" and they think they've cleaned up. They do not, however, know what the acquis communautaire says, which invoke or consider their obligation to apply it. They live their lives and the acquis communautaire lives its own. They always saw Europe as a faucet that makes money. Now that the tap has dried up, they see Europe as only a pretext for limiting the social state and labour rights. So I would like, on the occasion of today's bill, to make a proposal to the Bureau of Parliament. When we debate bills that are basically in compliance with European Union regulations, I would ask that Members be sent to the House and the relevant European Union information regulation. I know, of course, that this is all in europa.eu and can be found by anyone who wants it. However, it seems that the various 'persistent Europeans' have not yet been informed of the existence of the server of the European Union, so let us make it easier for them, and for the services of this House. For today, then, I am tabling in the Minutes of this House Regulation 865/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council to finally inform Members what they are voting on and why. Of course I am voting for today's self-evident bill as a whole. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Eleni Aylonitos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, my colleague. Mrs Anna Karamanlis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. The draft law under discussion concerns the establishment of the National Accreditation System. We have heard you, Mr. Haritsi, speak for twenty minutes. The first seven minutes you talked about what the Samara government didn't do and what it didn't do. You also told us that after the bill was passed you would set up a working party for the three agencies to discuss the matter. I think that this must be done before the bill is passed, then it makes no sense. So we say that the way the government is legislating and on this issue proves its inaction and confirms the unsuccessful pace at which it is moving. It has taken two and a half years, as you have said, of warnings from the European Accreditation System and of reaching the threat of expulsion from the Mutual Recognition of the European Accreditation Agreement to speed up the government's legislative process. And when he shows such reflexes on these issues, we cannot have expectations of quick closure of the assessment in order to solve the brake handbrake in our immobilised economy and get back ahead. Of course we cannot have requirements to speed up reforms and to promote immediately the investments that can bring growth. These are unknown concepts of a government that sails into a flight of happiness for the surplus, forgetting that it has ruthlessly forged Greeks with taxes and of course has kneeled every private business. I will not, however, extend to the provisions of the bill. After all, our rapporteur, Mr Christos Dimas, has been very clearly analysed. The main reason for my speech is the amendment concerning the repetitive examinations of the pan-Hellenics and tabled by the government on a completely irrelevant draft law. This is not the first time that this government has been working with this sluggishness in an area such as education, which is a national affair and affects the future of the new generation. This is an amendment that confirms the nakedness of the government and the lack of any serious planning in the field of education, an amendment that reflects the conditions of a hammer that has been created forty-two days before the pan-Hellenic examinations. Initially, it was the subject of the positions and the number of importers. Just two months - less than two months - before our children gave us tests, the Ministry of Education played the courgette. One day he cut them by a thousand, the other by five hundred, the next two years in depth, and the aftermath did not allow them to give any more lessons. They did not reach the children and parents, the psychological pressure and the anxiety of the examinations, but they also have to deal with the recurring of the Ministry to upset them at the most critical point in their efforts and not know what and how many positions they will claim. Ladies and gentlemen of the government majority, with the amendment introduced at the very last hour in the draft legislation under discussion, you are establishing the repetitive examinations in September, which are at least controversial. We have said too many times about the unacceptable practice you are legislating with. Your ears unfortunately don't sweat and continue the same moth. In unrelated bills, you bring in the form of amendments provisions relating to very important issues, which are voted, without having sufficient discussion and information, to the leg and to the faint - erase, in your favourite tactics. In any country with a serious government on issues such as the pan-Hellenics that have a significant impact on the future of our children, there would be timely planning. Issues relating to the conduct of the examinations would have been settled definitively and without asterisks since the beginning of the school year. There would be organised dialogue between all actors. There would be an orientation for what graduates we want. Here the Ministry of Education announces every day and a different decision and amends the terms of the exams just before the final straight really on a clipboard, as if he hadn't known since last September that we would have pan-Hellenic tests. And through you, one of the most transparent and imprecise institutions in our country, the pan-Hellenic exams, are subjected to his credibility, because they are born reasonably questionable for the equal treatment of students, since the children who will give in September will have two months to prepare themselves, since every child who has not written, according to his expectations, in the first two lessons, will seek how to re-address, taking advantage of the two months' advantage. Do you realize that the risk of having patients from candidates is visible? What are the insurance patterns you put in so that no such phenomena arise? I would mention that you are writing in the amendment 'whether because of a serious health reason or because of mental suffering as a result of the death of a relative first degree of blood on a straight line or a second degree of blood on a sideline, which took place within the month preceding the month before the start of the tests and until the end of those tests'. And all right, it's understood that for mental health reasons. But for serious health reasons? How, in the opinion of the Minister, is the serious health reasons identified? Who testifies to the serious health reason? Unfortunately, with your tactics you open holes in the unstable system of pan-Hellenic exams. You show the way to those who do not want to compete on equal terms. And that if it doesn't hide micropolitical purposes, it's a feature of your irresponsibility. And the cost of this irresponsibility is to pay the young children, who are also the major victims of your education policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, my colleague. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Constantine Javarra, has the floor for twelve minutes now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u67	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in this 'autonomous bill', as we have heard before, other than that which could be said, it is very important that we have the opportunity to deal with three amendments tabled by the Minister of Labour. And in these three amendments, it is literally all the political nature of the government that has emerged, that is, that of the nature which in the past two and a half years has done nothing but take fora to kill the wheat and eventually weep, because it has failed to achieve its purpose. On employment issues, particularly this is of great importance, because for two and a half years now we hear that this government has received a system of deregulation of labour relations, it has literally received a working middle-age, which, from the very beginning, set as a duty to honour itself and the SYRIZA ideology which supports it parliamentaryally, to give full satisfaction to all the trade unions' demands to such an extent that we can live up to labour regeneration. And, so far, is the question of what measure of employment, what measure of labour regulations, what measure has the entire system of deregulation of labour relations actually brought about? All anyone can recognize her is that on worse terms he has acceded to the toughest Memorandum Requirements. However, they must not have ceased to sound the celebrations of the Minister when after the Malta Convention, which was the first agreement, which we have not seen in the first place, is an agreement in principle, what it means, at least in practice, we have not yet seen it - but we were trying to understand through the words and descriptions of the festive element, which is, of course, the pride of this government, and we were informed that the issues of collective redundancies have been settled in accordance with the objectives of the government. We were also aware that the restoration of collective bargaining, which have been abolished, will also be included in the arsenal of the government to defeat the enemies of the people, the lenders. Unfortunately, what we are hearing today is that not only does not change anything, but the government agrees to give up, in essence, the veto privilege that the Minister for Labour had for the collective redundancies it has found or found that they do not fulfil the conditions of the law. And he asks anyone now: Who can this country's responsible citizen finally be addressed and demanded that the government convince him that it is the government that cares for the workers and the trade unions and embraces them with affection? Apparently, no one. But today there is another matter, Minister. You are bringing an amendment whereby Parliament will decide to grant a loan from EVCA to the ancillary fund of journalists. What is the first objection is not so much an issue concerning the bad position, in which journalists have actually come after the abolition of the ad, which your government has certainly abolished with the Katrugalos Act, but what is of great importance is the fact that you want to legislate on a procedure that the Minister of Labour itself can do. Indeed, the provision to which reference is made provides that the provision of Article 4(9) of Law 3586/2007 provides for the possibility that, since it is an insurer, the loan to another insurer is to be granted on condition that this agreement is decided by the administrative boards and representatives of the bodies and approved by a decision of the Minister of Labour, including the duration, terms and conditions of repayment. Why should the House decide on this? Because the government obviously wants to dismantle its guilt or its reluctance within this general recess of the decision of the representative House in which popular sovereignty is exercised. But that's not a serious piece of legislation. But this is not a serious exercise of governance by a member of the government, who actually does nothing but renounce his competence and responsibility and refer it to another House, which he thinks has competence. The House does not have the power to do so. The House has an obligation to legislate. It must, of course, legislate within the limits and within the Constitution, within the limits and within the framework of the Constitution, so that all competences in that state, which is therefore considered to be coordinate, are allocated to different state bodies. So to the state body, which is called the Minister of Labour, the Constitution, and the legislation in force, has entrusted exactly this procedure, which you are currently bringing it to the House today. I have heard the Deputy Minister for Social Security say things that are not only correct, but obviously, with great ease, it is addressed to Members of Parliament because it has the impression or that no one is following him or that there will be no one who listens to him carefully and will understand that what he says is unfounded. So there is no other explanation. Why? Because he told us that this subsidiary fund of journalists is included or, at least, is covered in terms of the obligations and debts it assumes from the Single Assistance and Security Fund established by the Katragalos Act. That's a lie. This fund, which is a mutual societies, is not included in the Single Assistance Fund. Therefore, after you have decided to strengthen this fund with this loan, you should definitely have the provision - because that is the responsibility you take - to give not that kind of assurances we have heard from the Secretary of State's lips previously, which do not correspond to any legislative framework, but above all to this amendment that you bring - because you are making available insurance resources, which are not just public funds, but also funds from the insured citizens of that country - to make at least a provision on how to ensure that this loan is repaid. And here at least we have to propose a very simple instrument, because I am informed - and I have heard from serious journalists - that, while this fund has requirements, these claims against the debtors are inactive, because it has no means of coercion for payment, for the recovery of these debts. Therefore, you may include in this provision, or at least the Minister of Labour could, since she considered that she had to meet her responsibility, include in her ministerial decision that an equal value claim of that subsidiary fund of journalists would give it to the EVC so that the EVC as an issuer of this requirement could use all means of compelling it to collect those claims and, of course, not put the money that is available to EVC money at risk. Unfortunately, instead, we do not see you making any effort. On the contrary, as this provision is formulated, that it will be four monthly instalments which will begin in May and will in fact end in September, undertaking to return the fund's 10 million on 31-12-2017, it is assumed that you are creating from this particular point at least the charismatic disposal of this amount. Indeed, there is a need to protect journalists and I say 'protect' because if journalists are at present exposed to this danger, which you come to cover with your specific proposal, the exact danger was set out by the Katorugalou Act, which, while anticipating the abolition of the ad - and very well did - did not provide for this social resource - as the Council of State has said, was indeed a social resource - to be replaced by another resource. So you could have made contributions, you could have imposed another resource, so that you are not in this need of legislating today. Finally, I would like to make two comments, if I may, Mr President. The first is this provision that you are bringing about the legislative introduction of the holiday on 1 May. But it is at least oxime to legislate or recommend such a arrangement since during the post-multiplatification a law that had a place of origin had succeeded in delivering much better the spirit of commemoration and the spirit of symbolic analogy of the struggles of the working class through the regulation that existed. And this arrangement gave every worker the right, for reasons relating to the valuation and performance of the labour-class struggles, to say that it is not only on holiday, but is involved in a strike every 1st of May. So, you are being memorized today, basically stripped of all symbolic content and meaning on this particular holiday day, having, as you say, a duty to create conditions of official celebration on an anniversary that the whole world of work wanted to feel in the way I described you and you know it much better than I do. And the third point is this Supreme Labour Council. Will you allow me to ask: this Higher Labour Council can manage and what efficiency it can have when it is essentially a service structure of the Ministry of Labour, which is provided for by the 1989 Presidential Decree, which is a body of this Ministry and, of course, seven members are involved? Of these seven members, those representing society are the employee representative and the employer representative. The remaining five are state officials and even state officials directly, operationally, organicly with the office of the Minister of Labour. And I wonder, why are you doing this structure? To develop in a way of magnanimity and a formality the thought, care and care to be taken by each Minister of Labour about the issues that have to do with the suppression of the phenomenon of undeclared work? This is your obligation. This is a policy that the Minister for Labour must decide on, but also implement. Unfortunately, every effort has so far proved ineffective, and this is why, even in the sense of suggestion or study, it is supposed to be a multi-faceted body in the traditionally accepted position, that when you want not to solve a problem, you should assign it to a committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theory, since they have previously participated in the educational programme for Kapodistrias organized by the Foundation of Parliament, eighteen students and students and two educational attendants from the 12th Kallithea High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Antony Gregos has the floor from Golden Dawn for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. We welcome the students. You continue to legislate like your predecessors in terms of the way and the substance. This draft law establishes the National Accreditation System. The ESRB was set up by Law 3066/2002 and up to now was an independent operating unit, which was incorporated into the legal entity under private law under the name of the National Quality Infrastructure System, the NSRP. The Greek Institute of Metrology and ELO, the Greek Standardisation Organisation, were also included. The ESS was set up by Law 4109/2013 and under this National Quality Infrastructure System, it also performed its purpose with management, financial and accounting autonomy. Today the Government is actually obligated to submit the draft law because of complaints of suspension of exports of the country due to the loss of recognition of the National Accreditation System by the European Accreditation Body, which means that this draft law is a way of complying with European legislation rather than a studied, nationally relevant and relevant legislative proposal. In short, the Greek Parliament for many years has been forced to legislate at the request of the offshore centres. This tactic, which you yourself were horrificing many, when you were in Antipoliticism, has become your favorite tactic. In principle, we are placed 'in principle' in a consistent political position vis-à-vis the state's institutional obligations on foreign interests and objections to political orders. However, it is clear that the Greek State must participate in the international accreditation bodies for two main reasons: firstly, it must serve the interests created by the export and commercial activities of various companies and, secondly, it must make the territory appropriate with regard to the relevant legal provisions and take advantage of the bureaucratic lovitations, which afflict the wider public sector. On the occasion of giving up the late Amendment 1023/11 - you have now remembered! - on the draft law: 'Recommendation of a legal person under the name 'National Accreditation System' and other provisions', I will refer to it in order to stop the chronic hardship of the Left and to inform the Greek people on the basis of historical data. We are talking about the introduction of 1 May as a compulsory holiday day. The Protomagia, which is ridden by all kinds of Marxists and so-called workers, established it for the first time by the national governor Ioannis Metaxas, who is called by Greek workers "the first worker". He thus won with his sword this extremely honorable title, as in his days, first, he was introduced the eighth day and eight hours a week, as well as the payment of overtime. Secondly, Sunday's compulsory holiday was introduced. Thirdly, child labour was strictly banned. Fourthly, minimum wages and wages were set, the so-called ‘minimum guaranteed income’, and the first collective labour agreements were signed. Fifth, IKA was founded. Sixth, the Workshop was founded, with increased activities for post-work recreation workers and a home for them. Seventhly, compulsory arbitration has been established between employers and workers. Eighth, paid leave was introduced. Ninth, state nurseries were founded. Tenth, unemployment has disappeared. For the few unemployed, the Labour Organisation for the Movement and Protection of the unemployed was created - it is the precursor of the OAED - which provided unemployment benefits and arranged for the organised movement of the unemployed in areas where they existed. It is, then, outrageous, ironic, humiliating, insulting to speak this government, like the previous ones, on employment rights, when faithfully respecting the orders of the loan sharks lead hundreds of thousands of Greeks to unemployment and impoverishment, even to suicide. "Black labour", smuggling, improper, occasional work, inhumane conditions make up the scene of the impoverishment of Greek workers. The only winners are the well-known big-workers, the workers who are redeeming their services even with parliamentary seats - we all know who we mean - and of course the faithful cheeks of the red-farming system, those who have been systematically selling every fair demand from Greek workers for years. Clearly, pink and red, you are the last to be entitled to talk about workers' rights. For struggles and sacrifices of the working class, too, you cannot speak. So sit back in your ministerial armchairs, keep taking seven and eight thousand euros a month, for as long as you are still naturally in these seats, and put aside labour rights. After all, you're supporting big-workers and big-workers too. The Golden Dawn always faithful to its positions and to its programme and to the full support of Greek workers, who have remained, is the only one who is involved in practice and is at their side every day. We have set up dozens of bodies for this purpose, and we thank those who offer this work as well. We will continue at an unsatisfactory rate and with the popular mandate we have to fight for the Greek worker, no matter how racist this sounds to you. The only ones, then, who are entitled to celebrate the Labour Day, are the Greek nationalists of the Golden Dawn. The rest of us are not entitled to talk about it and be rid of it, because at every gathering of ours, the slogan we always shout and is timely as much as ever is what it says: "Work, work to the Greek worker". Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Christos Katsotis, from the JRC, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. I am opposed to what has been said before. It is known that Metaxas gave retsinolado to the Communists, made dry, exiles, prisons, and a river of blood was one of the struggles that took place. Of course, Gold This day is leading in the establishment of the gebel family offices, sending workers with three and sixty to shipowners and several other employers. This is the Golden Dawn, which is why it must be isolated from the working class itself. I am going to turn to two amendments from the three of the Ministry of Labour, because in total our rapporteur has referred to the draft law which we are debating today. The first relates to the legislation on compulsory holidays of 1 May, and the second concerns the setting up of a section within the Higher Labour Council to deal with undeclared work. For the record, we have to say that on 1 May the labour movement established it as a world day of the working class. On July 20, 1889, the founding conference of the 2nd International Conference took the decision to organize a large international event on a fixed date in such a way that workers in all countries and in all cities also address a specific day to the public authorities a request and to set the working day in eight hours and to enter into force other decisions taken by the International Conference in Paris. The 1st May was the day of the great strike in Chicago, which was painted with the blood of the workers, and was established as a day of peaking the struggle of the working class against the bourgeoisie to abolish the exploitation of human beings. Holding that deepens. Workers experience painful working and living conditions from the power of the bourgeoisie. Poverty is expanding. Today's policy, which supports the needs of big capital, does not change by coming to legislate on the 1st of May. It continues to implement all the requirements of big capital, and indeed such as previous governments could not do, such as insurance, labour relations, in whatever rights they have left. You are talking and you have already agreed, as all of them admit, apart from all other measures and the change in trade union law, with greater obstacles to the organisation of workers' struggles, with greater obstacles to the declaration of a strike, beyond what the unscrupulous ergonomie puts today with terrorism, redundancies, the use of the mechanisms of repression and justice, because it is known that even the Mayor has been declared illegal by the courts, apart from all others, which, of course, is a large majority illegal. Today, Minister, they called me from Rhodes, from the hotel "AMILIA MARE" and informed me that the employer told the workers that the Day is a holiday and they cannot strike, even though of course the trade union bodies have decided. You can understand, therefore, that the 1st of May is not enough, when all the rest go back, when those freedoms, which have been conquered with blood rivers, are not guaranteed, but are granted to the capital, because that is how the ultimate goal of profits is to achieve competitiveness and the profitability of businesses. The Government, ladies and gentlemen, voted for the reinsurance law and fully aligned with the requirements and needs of the monopoly capital. He accepted and permanentised all previous reinsurance laws and strongly promoted the recompense for social security, essentially by abolishing social character. In the name of the insurance company's viability, it has drastically reduced pensions with new cuts it has already agreed, abolishing the personal difference resulting from the recalculation. Changed the replacement rate, the method of calculating pensions, strengthens private insurance, undermines the compulsory insurance. It maintains all those overthrows in industrial relations, generalizing flexibility. It supports the slave trade offices that advertise the "dead" commodity. It retains 'in the fridge' any control mechanism of the Ministry of Labour which exists - supposedly - to respect the rights left in respect of employment and insurance rights. And that's to keep it from disrupting the labour market. It therefore brings the amendment to undeclared work. What's he doing with it? It gives part of the OSCE, in its tripartite expression - because it is in the context of the social dialogue - which consists of representatives of workers, employers and government, supposedly study and proposals to tackle undeclared work. Workers are accustomed - and, of course, our people - to monitor the creation of committees where they are referred to for studies and proposals are put forward to deal with problems. We shall vote'residents' in this amendment, because we believe that the government is trying to avoid hitting uninsured work through its assignment to the OSCE. The working class has no other way than that of organising its struggle through the unions, reconstructing the movement, building a strong alliance with the other popular layers, developing its dynamic games against the monopolies and their power, against the imperialist war and its own power, its own form of organization of the economy, where the means of production will become social. Production will aim to satisfy the needs of the people and not the profits, such as the system imposed by the power of capital and by its political staff. This road supports with its pioneering action, its party members, his friends, his supporters of the JRC. This is where the majority of the people are conducive to getting rid of the sufferings of the rotten system and to confront the problems and actually live, as the progress of technical science allows, the increase in labour productivity. In this direction of break-up and overturn, we call on the workers to organise, strengthen their struggles to replace the major losses they have had over this period, prevent the new measures decided by the government with the quartet and claim the fulfilment of their current needs. There doesn't have to be any waiting, no waiting. He's an enemy of racing and perspective. The workers, the self-employed, the poor farmers cannot be expected to do so. The government, with any variations in the management of the needs of capital, cannot deal with the problems of the people, which are increasing. We will, of course, support the amendment on May 1st. We said, however, that this does not address the problems of trade union freedoms and the organisation of the people and does not address the problems of the people's entire movement. These will be dealt with only by reconstructing the movement, by the content of their action, by the prospect of breaking and overthrowing this system, which, as far as predominantly is concerned, will strengthen the exploitation and increase the problems of workers and the people.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister has the floor for some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u73	Thank you very much, Mr President. We're making legislative improvements to the bill, nine figures. These are verbal reprints and some minor corrections. Only one has substantial content and I mention it to you. I said it in my speech. It concerns the addition to the National Board of Accreditation of Representatives of the Hellenic Chemical Association and the Professional Scientific Training Association for Engineering, as it emerged after the discussion in the committee responsible. That is the only one, I think, which has some essential content. The others are just reprints and some minor corrections. Some of us have even been pointed out by the Opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u74	I would very much ask that the legislative improvements be distributed to colleagues. Mr Mitterrand from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u75	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today in the framework of the draft law another amendment to the insurance bill, which was tabled last night late. Of course, it would be worth noting that the amendments should be made in the short term. With this amendment, a short-term loan is granted by the FBI to the Journalists' Insurance and Care Fund. This is a EUR 10 million loan, which will be granted in four monthly instalments, and which will be repaid by way of interest, in accordance with the amendment, in the course of the year. In accordance with the amendment, the loan is granted on the basis of Article 4(9) of Law 3586/2007. However, this provision provides that such loans are granted by decision of their boards and social security institutions may, in agreement, have interest-rate loans to other social security institutions. First of all, Mr Petropoulos said in his speech that the amendment does not give a loan but a loan option. That's wrong. The amendment clearly says that an interest rate is granted and that the amount is specified and when it is paid and when the exact interest rate is repaid. The question therefore arises why this amendment needs to be circumvented by the administrative boards of the funds and the provision of No 3586/2007 does not apply directly. Are you trying to circumvent the power to circumvent and responsibilities if there is no repayment within the prescribed period? I ask: is that true? Also, in my one-minute speech, I asked whether the subsequent law, n.4111/2013, which lays down specific financial framework rules for the granting of loans by general government bodies, applies here. It defines specific cases and, most importantly, defines the need for the Minister of Finance to sign. However, in the amendment we are debating today, there is no signature of the Minister of Finance and Mr Petropoulos has been unable to tell us why. He said that the loan would be paid for by the co-responsible ministries. However, the amendment does not provide for the intervention of ministries. On the contrary, the amendment, by way of direct provision, grants the loan and, from there on, only rests with the EBRD to do the procedural act of paying the loan. So what Mr. Petropoulos said, once again, is not true. It was mentioned by the rapporteur of the New Republic that the EBRD's revenue from the interest on this loan was not predicted. This is an empty one, which should be explained to us in the report of the General Accounting Office of the State. The most important question, however, raised by our parliamentary representative, Mr Javarras, is: What guarantees does the subsidiary fund offer to ensure that this loan is repaid? Why, for example, does it not grant claims from employers through the oldest social resource to EKKA, which as a general government body is in a better position, in terms of a legal arsenal, to collect these dues? Of course, ladies and gentlemen, we must also look at the substance. Unfortunately, the amendment comes to seal what we already know about the poor situation of the EDPS not just after the removal of its basic resource, but mainly from the government's inability to draw up a new system of contributions, which would enable the EDEAP to continue its operation properly. Here, there is the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour. That is why this amendment is coming last minute, without planning and study. Of course, the entire insurance bill, ladies and gentlemen, is written on the knee. Still, you're not in a position to give solutions. You're saying tomorrow there's going to be a meeting for the EDPS. But the Minister did not tell us what the government's proposal for the sustainability of this special fund is. Is there a proposal? And if there is, should the House not know it today before it is called on to sign it before it is called to vote on the amendment? Of course, ladies and gentlemen, the EDEAP is a drop in the ocean of insurance - what you have built and which has been unable to balance for four months - and it is a source of suffering and confusion for insured and retired people. Your insurance system kills productive Greece, Greece that wakes up early, because you ideologically are repellent from Greece who works and who wants to pay insurance and tax obligations, but without being exterminated. You have altered the bond between contributions and benefits. You have now agreed, in the context of the evaluation, to the reduction of the main pensions by abolishing the personal difference and it is clear that you will proceed to new reductions in supplementary pensions, which you are expecting to bring to the vote in the next few days. Of course, in the multitude of questions - I have tabled twenty-two questions and reports on ECA issues - no answer can be given. Choose silence. Today, a hundred and thirty thousand future pensioners are waiting for their main pension. And the forty thousand pensions you announced that you allegedly gave are not definitive pensions but temporary, because you still haven't done the calculation for any new pensions. You charge insurance contributions to freelance professionals and self-employed persons on the basis of the incomes of 2015. Today it is April 25th and you still have not issued the clearing houses of this month, which have to be paid on Friday, and you are unable to proceed with the new software in the clearance of insurance contributions within the deadlines that you have committed to Parliament. Minister, don't celebrate supposed successes in insurance. And your law and its application are a failure. And that is what the Greek citizens are experiencing every day, despite what you are misleadingly telling them. On the subject of the EDPS, we shall vote 'yes' in the amendment, because we understand the impossibility of the government to find a solution for the body. We expect, however, - and I hope, before the end of today's meeting, Minister - that Mr Petropoulos returns to us and tell us specifically what the government's plan for the ancillary insurance agency of journalists is, which we are lending today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, we must look at the development of the debate. There are five fellow Members left and five parliamentary representatives. So he's gonna talk from an alternator. The Parliamentary Representative of the People's League - Golden Dawn, Mr Ioannis Sahinides, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. We have heard about evaluations, we have heard about amendments. But we did not hear that in the next few days today's conflict, the one signed by the third memorandum, will sign two more memos together - and I say two and I will explain why - one with the European Union and one with the International Monetary Fund. It should, of course, close the financial staff within the meetings that will start tomorrow in Athens, with the aim of obtaining a technical agreement at institutional level. The roadmap agreed at meetings held in Washington in the past few days have been on the way to the next meeting of Eurozone Finance Ministers, except for the second revision of the memorandum with the European Union and the text which will be the memorandum to the International Monetary Fund, the Memorandum of Economic and Financial Policies. The two different texts will be sent to Athens before the debates begin. According to officials of the Ministry of Finance, the measures which will include the two texts should be finalised within seven to ten days. The two texts will be similar but will not be identical. This means that the Memorandum of the International Monetary Fund may have different obligations from the revised Memorandum of the European Union, for example, the changes in labour, which, apparently, have not yet been finalised by the Fund. Of course, the Ministry of Finance points out that alignment of the two texts is achieved, to some extent, by the agreement reached in Washington to close the major economic policy issues, concerning budgetary measures, changes in banks and demilitarisation, and to leave the individual topics for later. You realise that all this shows, in relation to the victory of Jean Marie Lepen in France - we as Golden Dawn welcome this victory and hope in the second round that the French Presidency will also take over - that a wind of optimism is indeed in Europe. But while all this is happening, the French para-states began to terrorize the French people so as not to vote for Lepenn, creating, in fact, extensive incidents in Paris and all major cities. France's Koutsubbas, Pierre Lauran, the Secretary of the Communist Party, came out open with statements in favour of former banker Rochild, Macron. Here is the new proof of full subjection to the new order of things and capital, which you supposedly fight. "I call for Marie Lepen to be voted against," she said. "Two notes: The stunning rise of Jean-Luc Melanson, which is larger than 2012, means that there is a Left reborn in these elections. There is a second round in which I do not recognize myself, as do millions of people. We're going to beat Marie Lepen. I invite you to defeat her. Only one ballot is there to do so." These on the Left, a Left, which we have heard today, together with the neoliberals, talk about the Labour Day, a working Day which, unfortunately, you have been late for seventy-nine years. You were beaten by the national leader, John Metaxas. As much as you do not want to admit - unfortunately, there are examples - in those states which had implemented the economic policy of the Left or Communism - because, since this is what you are, the JRC is today's SYRIZA coexistence - it has proved to have been hungered. So, absolutely nothing to do with the labour movement. You are the worst enemies of the labour movement and all you have ever legislated in recent years, it was just at the expense of the Greek labour movement. The workers alone who support them - and they have proved it in all the decades that have passed - are Greek nationalists. You're passing through! I will talk about Article 12, which refers to the entry examinations in higher education. The first paragraph of the proposed provision states that the accessibility of graduates of vocational schools at TEIs, ASETEs and higher schools of tourism in percentages cannot be less than 20% compared to all candidates. The second paragraph provides for repeated examinations in September of each school year for the introduction into the higher education of the candidates for general high school and professional high school, who did not take part in the examination of one or more courses during the regular examination period due to a serious health problem or to mental suffering or as a result of the death of a relative first grade from blood in a straight line or second grade from blood on a side line, i.e. loss of a relative in the narrow family cycle. The proposed arrangements could be said to be in a right direction. However, the second provision raises a number of questions of its proper application which are not resolved by this Article and are referred to a future ministerial decision and, in fact, without specifying the time for its adoption, creating even more problems for the applicants, since it comes a month before the opening of the introductory examinations. With regard to the amendment of a general number 1022 and a specific number 10, there is provision for an interest-rate loan of EUR 10 million from the EAECF to cover its cash requirements. The amount will be granted in four equal instalments starting in May 2017 and expected to be repaid by the EDEAP until 31/12-2017, and the interest rate corresponds to the rate of return of the common legal person governed by public law and insurance bodies managed by the Bank of Greece. The EDPS has found itself in a financial deadlock, and the revenues were from the ad, which has been abolished. There was no employers' contribution for media workers. I would clarify that the EDEAP is the journalists' health sector. Also, the interest rate is not guaranteed. Could be 1% or 3%. The employees, the professionals, etc., are paying back contributions to EKKA and now, the health sector of the journalists is being borrowed. Why is this unequal treatment? If the argument is that pensions will be reduced by 20% - 30%, that the sector will be dissolved and the dignity of work will be lost, then let the government know that these images are well known and familiar to the whole society, which has been at unprecedented levels of despair and impoverishment due to the memorial policies that you have been following in recent years. I would also like to ask the following question about this amendment: since there is no longer any money for pensions or benefits, how will this loan be reimbursed, Minister? I am going to go to the amendment under general number 1023 and special number 11. The Ministry of Labour's proposal to set up a Undeclared Labour Department at the Higher Labour Council, the IAS, is another legislative amendment. The fact is that in particular in recent years, which Greece has been plagued by the memoranda, there are citizens who have no choice but to provide their services without being insured by their employers. The economic deadlock, in which the majority of workers and employers have been found, creates the conditions for the development of these phenomena. Instead of legislating to deal actively and effectively with unemployment that reaches the 24% rate, you are recommending sections with a bureaucratic background only to introduce an allegedly institutional innovation with doubtful efficiency. Today, however, the human resources of Greece have different requirements: firstly, we need new jobs, which will result from sound and transparent investments and which will primarily absorb Greek workers and, secondly, from a social welfare system. Impressive, indeed, is the current practice of dealing with undeclared work. So far, the only measure concerns the imposition of extremist fines against employers. In this regard, micro-enterprises are the usual objective of the state mechanism and often fall victim to the collective measures of the competent insurance institutions. The result is, in most cases, the closure of these enterprises and their overcompensation to the public. A possible solution to the problem of uninsured work is the establishment of a national plan for the distribution of labour and the proportionate application of insurance contributions to employers, depending on their turnover. All this could be done only with a national government of the Golden Dawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty-two students and students and two educational attendants from the Achaea High School. Welcome to the House, dear friends! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] My colleague Niki Kyrameos from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I asked for the floor to be put on the ministerial amendment concerning the repetitive pan-Hellenic examinations in September. It's Article 12 in the draft law, as incorporated. This amendment stipulates that, in September each school year, repeat examinations will be carried out for the introduction to higher education if either because of a serious health or mental suffering, a consequence of the death of relatives, which took place in the month preceding the month before the start of the examinations and until the end of those examinations, no candidates took part in the examination of one or more courses during the period of regular examination. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to be clear: we are clearly in favour of repeated pan-Hellenic examinations on cases for which - I stress, provenly - the student is facing a serious problem. After all, we had in this regard a Dedicated Opposition requesting the Government to re-establish the institution of the repetitive pan-Hellenic examinations, a time when it was said that the government would abolish them. However, we had asked for them to be regulated under strict conditions. It can happen to each of us that he has a health problem, an insurmountable reason to prevent him from taking part in these tests that will judge the rest of his life. However, ladies and gentlemen, there are two main issues with the proposed regulation. First theme, the timing of these repetitive pan-Hellenic examinations in September. Secondly, the conditions under which a candidate will have the right to take part in these examinations. The first issue, then, is the timing of the repetitive pan-Hellenics. It is planned by the Minister that these will be done in September, i.e. in other words, two or three months after the regular examination. And the Minister says that this is to give schoolchildren time to recover from any shock, for example, of a death of a relative. However, the experience so far has shown that most - not to say the overwhelming majority - of the candidates' cases, which need to provide repetitive examinations, are due to some temporary and minor incidents, mainly due to the stress of the examinations, such as panic attacks, nose bleeds and so on. So there are clear issues of equality and equal treatment, how much more so that the amendment provides that if you give, for example, two lessons and diseases to the third, then in September you will have the opportunity to give them all. Why would these students have two and three months more to prepare for the exams? Let me just say it. I give Ancient. I'm not doing well. I'm preoccupiing a disease in the history class I'm giving after, so I have a second chance in September to correct the degree of the Ancients, where I'm just not satisfied with how I went. First, then, is the time for the repetitive pan-Hellenics in September. Secondly, with regard to the proposed regulation. The conditions under which a candidate will have the right to participate in the repetitive pan-Hellenic examinations. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said before, we are clearly positive about repetitive pan-Hellenics, but under strict conditions of participation, in other words under conditions, to ensure that this candidate did have a good reason for preventing him from taking an examination. And while we had heard the Minister say that he wants to shield the system of pan-Hellenic examinations, so as not to allow abuses, to surprise us, we found that these conditions, which will shield the institution of the repetitive pan-Hellenic examinations, are not laid down in the law at all. There's not a single report. It is only foreseen that these will be determined at a later date by a ministerial decision. But, ladies and gentlemen, this was all the substance of the regulation, to find the legislative body the security differences, which will be predicted to prevent candidates from taking advantage of the opportunity to give them unjustifiedly second-time all-Greek in the same year. And when I'm talking about the safety aspects, I mean, for example, what is a good reason for health, how the serious health is shown and so on. That's what we expected to see in law and law. I'm afraid so. We have not seen any of this at all. For these two basic reasons, we are therefore voting against this amendment. We do, of course, with a heavy heart. And we do so with a heavy heart, for the additional reason that we are of course positive in the first article of the amendment, which concerns ensuring the minimum number of posts in higher education for graduates of professional high school. But you have chosen, Mr Ministers and Minister, to bring these two articles to the same amendment, and you knew that we were negative in the course of a repetition in September. And so we are forced to vote against the whole amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, my colleague. The floor has been asked by the Deputy Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr Baxvanakis. Minister, how much time do you need?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u81	Five minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u82	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Education has tabled to the Committee on Production and Trade an amendment which, among other things, provides for repeated pan-European examinations, which, after the debate in the committee, is now Article 12. This article shall contain two paragraphs. The first ensures a minimum number of posts in the higher education departments for the children of professional high school. As you may recall, with Law 4452, we have determined that the number of posts for graduates of general or professional grades is determined according to the number of candidates. With this amendment we ensure that, for graduates of the ESDP, this figure will not be less than 20%. It is obviously a provision to support vocational education, and I suppose it is accepted by the whole House. With regard to the introduction of repetitive pan-language examinations, which is being carried out under the second paragraph of Article, I am talking about the introduction of repetitive examinations, because so far this possibility has not existed. By 2000 no repetitive pan-Hellenic tests were carried out. In 2000, the repetitive examination was introduced, but only for those courses which participate in the formation of the high-school graduation, in other words those courses whose examinations are also introductory to the higher education and education diplomas. There have never been repeat examinations for special courses, for foreignlanguages, for the project, for examination in musical skills, as there has never been a repeat examination for PSA graduates, for the reason that these children's examinations had never been linked to the dismissal. In addition, L4186/2013, which introduced the new access system, did not provide for the possibility of repeated pan-Hellenic examinations. So today, with this amendment for the first time, the government establishes the possibility of having repetitive examinations for all classes and for all children. In addition, we set a specific percentage of posts, which is in addition to the number of importers. Why are we doing this? In order not to deprive either one post or the last section of higher education of the candidates who normally compete in June. The positions we are creating are, therefore, also those which concern only those children who, for some very serious reason, were unable to participate in one or more lessons. These kids will be examined at all classes. Why is that? Because the terms of the game must be the same for all children. The same number of positions must be claimed under the same conditions for all those involved in the examination. It was not reasonable, therefore, for students competing in different courses on different subjects to claim the same percentage of posts. And I think that in times when everyone is looking for reasons of appeal, the whole House is aware of the seriousness of this regulation. What are the serious reasons for this? They are described in the amendment. First of all, serious health reasons, the identification and certification of which will be carried out by a ministerial decision. But we want to assure the House that the conditions will be much more stringent than they were in the past, precisely to ensure that only those children who have come up with something very serious during the examinations will receive this second opportunity. The reasons for mental distress are clearly described and refer only to the death of a very close relative. And to make it understandable, we are only talking about the death of a parent or brother, as clearly described in the arrangement. The examinations are also given in September, as we have clearly explained, because if we want to be serious, and since the reason why a child has put forward a repetitive examination is indeed due to very serious reasons, these very serious reasons are all realised that they will not have been eliminated in ten days. Therefore, the seriousness of the reasons for a review and a distance so that these reasons have expired after a two-month period, if we want to be serious and to deal with matters, especially for young students and minors, with the seriousness of the matter. Finally, we have another safety test. In order to enter higher education schools through the repetitive pan-Hellenic examinations, there is another dilemma, except for the small number we have put in, 0.5%, which has not emerged arbitrarily. I'm doing a parentheses here. This percentage has been derived from the analysis of the data in the past few years. Approximately that was the number of children who made use of the possibility of re-examination. It was about 0.5% of all candidates, and that is why we set that figure. But there's another test. That no one will be introduced from the repetitive examination if it fails to achieve a score which is at least equal to the basis of the introduction resulting from the normal examination period in June. This is a second deterrent, which will discourage some, perhaps, who in the past or in the present and the future would think to abuse that possibility. We are talking about an opportunity which will only be given to those or those who have experienced something very serious and which does not depend on them, and a second opportunity must be given to them. The terms are such that no one will use them, misleading everyone else. And here we will be, to see that, this time, those who make use of it - and we will see it very soon - will be less than those who have used the power of the rules before, and who are abused at the expense of the others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Minister. Mr Georgios Amyras from the river has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u85	Mr President, can we ask the Minister something about the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u86	But very quickly, because Mr. Amyras is already in Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u87	After Mr. Amyras?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u88	If you want, yes, to end Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, once again we have found a step before Grexit, not of leaving the euro but of the European system of certification of Greek products, to mobilise the government and to discuss and vote today on the draft law. All accreditation bodies for months warned the Ministry of Finance that exports representing 18% of GDP risked quarantine from foreign markets because the National Accreditation System has not been established. It has been practically necessary to reach only one legislation in order to comply with European legislation and to allow the fifty thousand Greek exporting companies to export their products with accreditation recognised by the European and international community. It's all at the last minute and everything the worst. Unfortunately, this is also the case with the great picture of the negotiation. As we are aware today, the Greek Government's negotiations with the Troika are relaunching, so that agreement can be reached as an objective on 22 May. This is the new deadline. It is a new bead on the timeliness, which you have often announced after 5 December, at the beginning of January, on 20 February, on 20 April, on 7 April and now on 22 May. Once again, we are approaching the dangerous landmark of July, when the country will be called upon to pay about EUR 6 billion to repay earlier loans, which we do not have. Everything also shows that the agreement when it is reached will be cruel and painful for the citizens and especially for the economically weaker. The government represents one moment the tough negotiator, and on the other it signs everything. The question raised by this tactic is reasonable. Since, at the end of the day, the Ministry of Finance accepts a reduction in duty at the level of EUR 5,600 to EUR 5,900, since the Ministry of Finance accepts the savage cut in the main pensions by abolishing personal differences from 1-1 to 2019, why do you not sign the agreement in the first place so that at least the real economy is not affected by this economic uncertainty and instability? What does the country gain from the delay? Since this agreement is supposed to absolve austerity and get the country out of the crisis, as several of the government ministers have told us last week, why not sign it for so long? Because the truth is that you have taken tough measures and you cannot deal with reality. That is why you constantly build enemies, confuse friends, praise what you have denounced in the past, and further forget what you said before becoming the government, before you take the authority. Remember the surplus of blood, misery and austerity, as you described in 2014, which has now suddenly become a surplus of success and effectiveness? But, I remind you, when you blamed the previous ones for their commitment to a surplus of 4.5% in 2014, growth was 3%. Today with a surplus of 4% for 2016 and a growth of 0%, what do you have to say, ladies and gentlemen, especially of SYRIZA? Doesn't that mean heavy austerity? Doesn't it mean bleeding the real economy? Ladies and gentlemen, one record after another is broken. You broke the record surplus, but you broke another record. You made new friends. Mr. Shoeble drinks water in your name. His thinking is very simple. Since Greece has achieved a 4% surplus with a recession, why cannot it achieve a surplus of 3.5% over the next few years when it is expected to enter a development phase? The surplus, ladies and gentlemen you are laughing at, has become a weapon in the hands of the German Government against the International Monetary Fund, which insists on a haircut. That's what you've done. Read the foreign press, read the statements of your fellow ministers and MPs from other countries. That's what you've done. However, because we are at the end of the negotiations, we expect to see the final text of whatever agreement and we will be placed. However, everything shows that you are committing the country to measures of more than EUR 4 billion from 2019 onwards, but without obtaining new funding. As far as the argument of the neutral financial measures does not seem to be correct. Simple logic breaks it. The measures will be implemented explicitly, while the countermeasures to the extent that you have exceeded the budgetary targets. In any case, however, I imagine that you fellow SYRIZA and ANEL Members will have no problem voting on it, won't you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u90	Of course!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u91	You're voting for it, aren't you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u92	Yes! All of it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u93	And the cut-off of the main pensions, right?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u94	Of course!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u95	Sure, huh? And the increase in taxation, especially those who get up to 600 euros a month, right? So you don't have a problem. Yes, sir. However, you've made a world record of the shading of the memorials. You have brought two memos, '1+1', the second is 'kavanja'. All this, in fact, with the same ease as you go from 'Northern' to President Olad, from Olad to Melanson and from Melanson to Macron. No compass, no plan, no prospects for this country!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u96	So, you're with Lepen?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u97	What do you say, ladies? I heard something about Lepen. I imagine, Mr. SYRIZA's colleague, you who supported Melanson, heard what he said. He left his constituents free, he says, while holding free relations with Mrs Lepenn. In any case, exports are the sure path that will be able to mobilise the Greek economy to get it out of the well. But exports, ladies and gentlemen, are also indirect exports. For example, now that we are officially in the summer tourist season, it is museums and archaeological sites. How proud could the ministers of this government, when out of the four hundred eighty two museums and archaeological sites available to the country - listen, take paper, mark and freak out - a hundred nine museums and archaeological sites are closed? It says "CLISTON"! Also seventy - two archaeological sites and museums open only on an appointment! The key you have to go get it from next tavern or elsewhere, otherwise you can call the editor of antiquities and book you an appointment to get the key and open the archaeological site, while three hundred archaeological sites and museums, even though they follow today the winter hours, that is, open from 8.00 p.m. to 15.00 p.m. the hour, to visit, you have to pay them a summer ticket that is increased. So what can we say? What about this situation? Many times I have tabled questions to the Minister of Culture and the Minister of Tourism and I do not receive a reply. Where is the online ticket, supposedly in museums with the first Acropolis of Athens or the Mycenaeans? Where's all this? Why should other peoples have been applying them for years without difficulty and we have been permanently obsessed, obscured and fighting the solution of self - esteem? Why? Ladies and gentlemen, since I am talking about tourism, indirect exports are also the climbing, for example, of the Meteora rocks. You know there are crazy bans? In fact, the other day, there was a ban on an international race of rope on rocks, where there are no monastic communities in operation. When are we going to get these lips out of our sights? When, at last, will we take advantage of the goodwill of this country, instead of sawing it and undermining it? I feel that, unfortunately, this true resurrection of reason is taking a long time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Ioannis Delis from the JRC has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u99	Ladies and gentlemen, there is a lot to be said here today. There were so many anthems about Metaxas that they might not even hear during his dictatorship. But we also heard the amazing talk about Metaxas' charity. Metaxas proved it in May 1936 in Thessaloniki, when he sent the Army and the Police to murder workers. Dozens of tobacco workers fell dead in May 1936 from the regime of Metaxas, shortly before making his dictatorship. That was Metaxas, and that's what he's saying. Now, of course, the representative of the Ministry of Education is here. We want to say that the government is, in fact, talented to cause inconvenience and additional stress to candidates for the pan-Hellenic examinations, when with the number of importers, when with the repetitive examinations of these pan-Hellenic examinations. On this subject I want to stay. The Ministry of Education has initially brought an amendment to the Finance Ministry's draft today's draft law, which is now an article - I think Article 12 - and claims that it settles the subject of the repetitive pan-Hellenic examinations by transferring these repetitive examinations from July to September for all the lessons, even if a student loses the examinations for just one lesson. To do so, the government invokes the well-known argument that there were, of course, individual unacceptable and convicted practices to exploit such regulations in the past. But, in fact, it does so that the government, along with the dry, burns the greens, too! Here it is worth remembering what the Ministry of Education said a moment ago, when it did not hide that it intended to abolish the repetitive pan-Hellenic exams, implementing the laws and regulations of the former government, the Government of New Democracy. This is another proof, of course, of the continuity of anti-education policy. Of course this government's intention sparked reactions. That made sense. It also caused the mobilisation of students outside the Ministry of Education, which was not done, of course, because these children deliberately intended to leave one or two lessons to go to give them in September or July, but were mobilisations that expressed the sense of injustice of all the students. At the same time the newspaper "AGE" with targeted publications such as "not repeating July", "yes in September", cultivated the territory of the government's manoeuvre, indirectly putting the element of the extra cost of July's exams in relation to the exams in September, when of course the schools are open. Finally under the movement of student mobility, the Government has come to the present regulation, which maintains the repetition of the pan-Hellenic examinations for those students who have proved to be unable to participate in them for objective reasons, ultimately worsens the conditions for participation of these students in these repetitional examinations. The current government regulation has a purely punishable and vengeful character, because it is punishment and additional stress for a student who has not been able for objective reasons, such as a family tragedy or a disease, to be able to go to a lesson - in the third or fourth lessons and last - and to have him write all the lessons from the beginning. Not only that, but you are transferring the repetitive exams from July, as it has so far been in September, so that students may be given supposedly "to collect their minds", I use the expression that Mr Gavroglou often uses. But again, you are not telling the truth, Minister. The main reason you do so is the infamous cost savings. Let the third Memorandum be well, since in September, as the schools are well known, it is already open to julius, and the cost of the examinations is, of course, small. What does that mean for students participating in the repetitive pan-Hellenic examinations in September? Nothing but prolongation of anxiety and anxiety. This is the government's gift for whatever adventure these children have gone through. If the government really wants to deal with such specific cases of mental stress and suffering, then it has nothing to do with keeping Juli’s repetitions, to introduce for as few as possible repetitions and September. And since we're talking about these repetitive tests, really, Minister, what does the government intend to do, about those cases of children from remote islands who may repeat the pan-Hellenic tests? How far do you plan to send them for these tests? Even more than you've already limited the examination centres? In short, take the amendment back - Article 12 -, keep the repetitive examinations in July and only for the courses for which no examinations were given and introduce such repetitive examinations for September, for those students who will not be able to or will not be able to participate in July's repetitions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Dimas, would you like to ask the Minister a question?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u101	Just two minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u102	As soon as you can, please. Here you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u103	Minister, I admit I'm confused after your intervention. I don't know what's thought of as a serious health. Is it, like, the break-up of the hand, the meningitis, the gastroenteritis? And the reason I'm asking is because you're going to be summoned within the next few weeks to decide. And it is much better to clarify it now than to leave this ambiguity. Secondly, who testifies to this serious health reason? If I heard you right, did you say he was certified by the Ministry? It seems a little strange to me. Thirdly, why does the amendment, Article 12, no longer clarify the matter and leave room for the provision to end in an entrance to a window examined? Fourth question. Don't you think it's a manipulation of the final results, the fact that some candidates will know which bases were low, unlike some who didn't know it and had completed the computer much earlier? Nor do you think the planning of the Ministry is extremely rough when you change the provisions for the pan-Hellenic just forty-two days before? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u104	For twelve minutes, the Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, Mr Saridis, has spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u105	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the credibility of the political system in our country is neither unjustified nor unjustified. It goes mainly from the fact that the words of politicians have lost their meaning for citizens. This, of course, didn't happen in one night. It took dozens of bills like what we are debating here today in plenary, which, without shame, brought us in the form of urgency, took hundreds of hours of supposedly political confrontation and thousands of public heavy statements that time proved to be false. The peculiarity of today's bill, however, is that within it, the government has managed to gather all those traits, which make up the real picture of the way the country was governed for decades to finally lead to the present state of trial and crisis. It took contempt, presumptuousness, lack of programming, and ultimately incompetence and irresponsibility. These have been the main features of the policy responsible for the present deadlocks and which all the Greek governments have been carrying out over the last few decades. These are the data presented by the history of the draft law currently being passed entitled ‘National Accreditation System’ and ‘National Accreditation System’. In fact, the bad texts concern both the government and the Civic Opposition this time. In 2013, the Government tried to merge the three Certification Bodies. The assessment by PASOK and the New Democracy that the law was not insulted by Law 765/2008 was seldom made at that time. The lack of programming has proved to be a result, i.e. Europe judges this law as unacceptable. However, the SYRIZA - ANEL government has also been on the move since the end of 2015 when judging the risk of the collapse of the National Certification System. With carelessness Mr Stathakis also addressed the country's relative international obligations to reach this point today, where the lack of programming proves to be superfluous now, especially from the date of the law, today's date, i.e. two days before the brain attack on the Greek economy, only two days before the decision is ratified that the Greek Accreditation System would lose the value of the world with tragic, unpredictable and irreversible consequences for the Greek economy. What should the Greeks believe? What do we have to answer the simple question 'why did we have to get to the edge of the cliff to legislate what the House has to do to protect the Greek economy from certain collapses'? No one has questioned the tragic consequences for the country of depreciation of the domestic certification system. No one, however, tried to explain convincingly to the Greeks why we had to be in this position in the first place, why should it be all the issues, micro-participatory issues? Why would everything happen in the glue? That's what our fellow citizens are wondering. That's what they say to me. Have they been informed of what is at stake, what is at stake, what is decided by the early vote or not of the current bill from whom and when? From us three days ago, two days before the penalty, to get us out. If today's bill is not passed today, then the Greek economy will collapse on Friday. That's a reality. That's the truth. The damage to the country's credibility, especially in this time-critical period of time, would be irreparable. Having identified and denounced the urgency, bias and lack of programming in the political response of the domestic certification system and the coup d'état of the New Democracy - PASOK in 2013 and today by SYRIZA - ANEL, I will close my comment on the main bill, pointing out that part of his history, until he arrives here today in plenary and discusses the irresponsibility and inability of both previous governments and the current government. This is all done for no reason. And the first legislation of 2013 was completely inappropriate and was an unexplained decision of the Greek government at the time, but the current government, for no reason at all, let things reach the edge of the cliff. This is what Greek citizens continue to see, what is done without foreign intervention, without the intervention of the Troika, but with the sole responsibility of the Greek political forces. And they're worried because they realize that the dangers of going something wrong when things get to their ends are too big. The tragic thing is that in many cases we didn't have to go to nothing but five, as you have no excuse and the bill that you left the time to go through, to finally bring it in by the urgency procedure, proving once again how indifferent you are about Parliament's Rules of Procedure and how much you are interested in the rules of good law. In fact, the fact that you chose this process to deal with such an important issue did not prevent you from adding to this bill the well-known 'and other provisions', to bring us some of the last-minute amendments, which I will also comment on on on my side as a parliamentary representative, since our rapporteur, Mr Georgiadis, has been in detail for the bill. The amendment 'Repetitive examinations of introduction to higher education', on which we already have a virtually integrated article in the bill, was accepted by the Minister. It also appeared from the discussions in the committee responsible, where our special speaker, Mr Georgiadis, had the opportunity to point out to you his concerns, the possibility of the amendment being misused if it is still the case. Ladies and gentlemen, consider what message you are sending with this amendment to our seventeenths, who, apart from giving examinations this year, if you have announced elections, will also vote in the elections on the basis of the law that we have voted in this Parliament. A Parliament, which today tells the seventeenths that the Greek state, because of its inability to solve a problem, will create you another ten. The message you are sending out in the vote on this amendment promotes fatalism and it is simple: Look, do not take away the evil, because a bad million goes down. So we do not consent to defiance of hope for those of our fellow humans who happen to get sick or lose one of their own people these days of such critical pan-Hellenic examinations. On the issue of granting a loan of EUR 10 million of interest, a lot has been heard about this amendment. But no one - and I think not by chance - stood to explain to the Greeks who exactly lends who. The political significance of such an amendment is enormous, as is the responsibility of all those who have made these amendments necessary. That's not how problems are solved. That's how problems arise. Legislation with extensions, suspensions by way of derogation from any law, provisions and natural loans has become the basic rule of legislating in Greece under the responsibility of the current government. And instead of apologizing to us, you make admonitions and exhortations, not to make remarks, because the previous ones were worse. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, be careful, because as you go, you will get over them. You have been put within two years to over 40 years of bad lawmaking on the part of the governments of post-multiple. As regards the introduction by law, instead of a current ministerial decision, on 1 May as a compulsory holiday day is without substance, unworthy of comment. This political initiative is carried out - and I am told - in the name of the Left, but it is against the true meaning of the Left. No ministerial decision, no law can describe, render or renounce the meaning and value of a day established in the conscience of the Greeks as that day that the laws must be tested, judged and challenged by strike. In fact, this decision you will go to give it to those on that day who will work, will work for a portion of the order of 9 euros and 20 cents, the legal share. As far as the amendment to undeclared work is concerned, I have to say what I said in the previous amendment: to go and find the tens of thousands of our fellow people who have already closed the necessary agreements, to have an opportunity to work, even black and white, the economic tourist season that is coming and who have supported their last hopes, as have the country. You'll be judged by the result. You are currently strengthening your party army with this amendment. This is what you are doing, strengthen your party army by the favorite method, that is to say by setting up new bureaucratic structures of another section with the conditions of SYRIZA staffing. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to close by addressing you and pleading and anguish of the Centro Union: No one and any party interest is above the national interest. He has an obligation in this House after a year and a half to understand it at some point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Christos Bukouros from New Democracy, has the floor. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, although the expedited Minister of the bill under discussion is absent from the Chamber, I have to start by saying that even the random observer, not to say the passer walker, finds with ease the lack of all coherence and planning in your government work. You are literally operating the country on red continuously and on all issues. And when that happens, whether you live in a machine or get involved in an accident. I don't know if the second is your pursuit. I am not saying this in any opposition context. They are, as I told you, a fact of the Greek society. You are constantly running behind the events, behind the deadlines, behind the country's obligations and needs. Minister, I am not going to talk about the evaluation - many colleagues have done so earlier - that you are constantly postponing it, creating enormous uncertainty in Greek society and the Greek economy. Every government initiative, every political act of yours, every piece of legislation comes at the last minute. Let's see today's bill for the National Accreditation System. Two years are threatening you with Grexit the European Agency. The New Democracy with many opportunities had warned you. In fact, I have had the opportunity to present a topical question, which was discussed on 17 March 2016, and then the relevant Minister told the House that there is no cause for concern. And we arrived fourteen months after the deadline expires and the country is at risk with a laboratory Grexit, discussing the bill and calling the House, without consulting the urgency procedure, to vote for a bill that touches the country's productive nature and the image of the country abroad. Because laboratory controls, standardisation and all these issues are at the heart of the economy and we are not sending any signals of seriousness, bearing, Minister, a bill on the day of the ritual sent to us by the competent European Agency. But it's not just the bill we're talking about. And all the amendments do demonstrate that the government is running rampant behind the facts. To come to the Education Ministry's amendments. This provision, as regards its functionality and objectivity, will, of course, be judged in practice. Did the relevant Ministry not know, however, that the introductory examinations are being carried out in forty-two days from now? What is the point of bringing a provision to the final straight, which only causes upset? Also, if not all of this was known by the government, our obligations towards European agencies, the obligation to introductory examinations, did it not even know that the Labour Initiative coincides with 1 May and brings legislation five days before the Day? So I justify my initial finding that the government is constantly running behind facts and obligations, without a trace of planning and planning, without any cohesion in its policy. However, let us also see the substance of today's amendments, starting with the last one, on legislating as a compulsory holiday on the Day of May. The Minister of Labour came here and told us that this was a political decision by the Government to honour the work of the labour struggles for better working conditions, fights for eight hours, etc. I am sure, however, that the Minister knows that eight hours on the days of the SYRIZANEL Government does not exist in Greece. The government "SYRIZANEL", according to ELSTAT figures, flexible forms of work, namely parttime work and rotating work, 9.4% in 2014. Parttime work now reaches 30% on all contracts and 15% on rotating work. Total flexible forms of employment 45%, about half of all contracts. I am sure that the Minister is aware of this information, which speaks of honour in the struggles of Greek workers for the eight-hour period, but she diligently hides it. This is how the government says it is reducing unemployment, with the evacuation of flexible forms of employment. The Minister spoke to us about the establishment of the Labour Council in order to combat undeclared work. Does the Minister not know that local labour inspectors are no longer working? They have to receive funds for consumables and working costs - and I denounce this - since last January. Is the Minister of Labour aware of how the audits are carried out, for example, in the Labour Inspectorate in Magnesia, where my constituency is? Refnene workers pay to collect the gasoline money with a single vehicle to run undeclared work throughout the Magnesia Prefecture. The Work Council was missing? Why didn't the Minister bring evidence of the checks here to show us that in the days of your government controls have increased? They are unable to carry out checks. They don't have vehicles, they don't have fuel, they don't have consumables. A lesson from the government in managing contracts, in the communication management of things, but which do not solve the problems. It's all her initiatives and all her actions from the beginning to the end. Previous speakers spoke about the pan-Hellenics. However, with the transfer to September, a student who has not written well in the first lesson is given time credit, and this directly puts against the credibility of a trustworthy institution, such as the introductory examinations and which functioned with the additional examinations immediately after the normal examinations. What good reasons for health lies in the excellence of a ministerial decision. Let's see how it works. We hope that there will be no problems, but we are not at all sure about that. Now, Minister, without this being an equivocal criticism, the government's aspirations are abundant and obvious and not only the evaluation, it is the government's daily activity that proves it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks Mr Papachristopoulos has the floor for 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr President. I think we're at the end of the process, it's good to be relaxed. It is not necessary to agree on everything. After all, it is Parliament's greatness. To listen to the right criticisms made at times by the Opposition and vice versa. It is not necessary to agree on everything and everything. I don't want to get too close to the bill. I believe that only the fact that criticism lies in delay is a tangible proof that we are all in agreement with this bill and I think there is no objection. I think it enjoys mainly two classes of professionals: those in the field of evaluation and export business. In fact, I would like to refer to Mrs Sakellariou, the President of exporters. Some people should read the announcements he made. I can't imagine she's registered to the government as well. He said that from 18.5 billion exports we would go up around 22 to 23 billion if I'm not mistaken. I'm just filing it out, and I think this bill has the acceptance of everything. There has been a lot of noise about the amendments. I have not heard it once, but I have heard more than three times in the committees, the Minister for Education, and I would ask everyone to listen carefully. His argument, in my opinion, is inappropriate and correct. Only rushphetological is not this regulation and is facing extreme cases of children having a problem rather than those who are pretending to be in trouble. As far as undeclared work is concerned, what can I say? I don't think there's anyone who doesn't know. We all know it's terrible conditions we live in. Shouldn't something be done? It's the first step, I don't think it's the last one. Indeed, this is what you say, and we have three hours' work once a week and once a month and are regarded as workers. Yeah, it's a fact. But we must slowly end history and I think that a great gain has been gained, which some are underestimating. The collective bargaining will be mandatory from 2019 onwards. They were asking for redundancies out of control. Yeah, she's a working jungle, but shouldn't she be in a class once? And most importantly, it's the lock out. These, I think, have been secured and a little bit of this amendment comes in. It is true that we, as Independent Greeks, are also voting in favour of the bill and amendments, but because other things have been heard in this Chamber, again with love and without intent to compete, I want to make a little reminder. There have been so many terrible excesses lately, so many inaccuracies! A thorn of news, white - black, excesses. I don't want to scratch wounds. I would just like to say that in this Chamber it is not wrong to confront the existing problems. I, for example, am not a prisoner. To be criticized or not to be made about this thing. I believe that private initiative with rules should exist in society. With rules, I say it again, not public suppliers, but rules. Because what we have lived in the last forty years has not been the private initiative, it has been with the comrades of the big business with the ministers. This is not a private initiative. I believe in the private initiative, as I believe in a strong social state. Today we had a meeting - and I am very pleased to bring it to you - with a couple of fifteen Finn Ministers. We had the opportunity to see from the closest of people who live democratically, who have an incredible system of education, which is a point of reference for everyone. When NOKIA was mingling in Finland, I would inform you that there had been no single Finnish protest. Taxes went to welfare, education, health. It is a state that is truly democratic. We may have been unhappy by some of her representatives, because they were closer to the Germans. But this country, which has never dealt with anyone, does not cease to have a democracy. Let's say that. It was a profit that these people came here to find out about the refugee. I heard things. The issue was not offered for opposition. Okay, there's a delegation to find out what's going on in Greece. Does it make sense to confront at that time? Not for me. At least I didn't. And I told them with a cry of agony that for us, we're hostages. Erdogan's got three million on his border. If the war doesn't stop, we're in hostage and the Italians. We need help there. Finally, I would like to say - I will not need all my time, Mr President - because I have heard too many excesses and inaccuracies, that we are a government which, if you do not understand, we are fighting - and I think you will follow - for e-government. Plastic money you could've done it for years. Why didn't you? So is the one-stop shop, so we do not need six months and thirty-three signatures. We could have done it. Why didn't you do it? Why? Likewise, the electronic signature, which in Estonia and Lithuania has been conquered for ten years and has been going ahead. I state and believe that many of you do believe in the free economy with rules. I believe it. I'm with you. Come on, then, and build a new reality. There's misery. I heard about the highways. I happen to live in Xylokastro. I'll let you know that I was on my way down the street and I was in danger of being killed. For three years I've been in danger of being killed. And I hear there's misery again. Spirtz handed them over. What can we do? It's not a crime. And you could have done it. I didn't say we started the plays. And you and everyone before - no objections. It's always the state. But there's misery. Where and where? Ask the apostle: Why did they not for the first time close the streets? Have you forgotten that they were shutting down every year? I don't want to remind you of what was happening now. Don't scratch wounds again. Something's changed and something's changed. The agreement belongs to all of Greece, to all of us. Make your cross close and isolate people who have extreme voices. They don't offer. I believe New Democracy is wrong for itself. It is a party that has offered - no objection - and it has many competent executives too. I first said about the decency of Stakoura, Kostis of Hatzidakis. I thanked Dora publicly for Bakoyannis who nine years ago as not to be required to speak about casus belli, if we were to be affected at the "Ariana" we were going. We violated the territorial waters of Israel. We were with Thodoris Dritsa, Sophia Sakurafa, and he made casus belli. I thanked her for ten years. I believe that this Parliament must have another level. There's a lot of good executives. We must cultivate consensus. The country - I tell you directly - will leave where it was. I'm sorry to say that. I'm tough. A elite is responsible. I'm not saying it's your fault. Some of you, not all, have had an elite sucking down the country's economy for forty years. What can we do? Don't remind me of numbers. We all do our self-criticism, and we do it. We were ignorant of danger. I say so. We were ignorant of danger. We didn't expect such a terrible reaction from some people. We all want to make our self-criticism and move on to our real problems, which are too much. Today's conversation proves there is consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u111	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I would like to say that the ministerial amendments are accepted. Next, we are tabling the latest legislative improvement. In fact, it concerns our prediction that there will be no gap until the appointment of the new National Accreditation Council. Thus, we submit this legislative improvement to Article 10 of the draft law, to cover this gap up to the appointment of the new Board of Directors from the existing Board of Directors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u112	I would ask the honourable Members very much to be distributed. Mr Athanasios Bourras from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr President. In fact, Minister, I am surprised that you should not have brought this draft law into 'nearly five', but almost 'and five', since you are leading and have the portfolio of a ministry which should be mainly governed by the planning and timely treatment of issues. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] Indeed, you used to us in these good things. Today, on the last day of danger for the country, in accordance with the urgency procedure, we are discussing the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development entitled 'Recommendation of a Legal Person under the name 'National Accreditation System' and other provisions'. In fact, I was surprised at the committee, Minister, when our rapporteur, Mr Dimas, informed you that you were putting the country at risk, because you came to legislate today on 25 April, in the context of the urgency procedure, last day that you have the opportunity not to expose the country to the risk of the ESS being expelled from the European Accreditation Agency. What has the SYRIZANEL Government done for two and a half years now to deal with this possibility of abortion? However - and I say this sincerely to you - you must also look for responsibilities to those who have been handling this issue for two and a half years - it is not bad - when there have been constant warnings about the risk of abortion in these two and a half years. And you come here today - and you will be free to legislate, Mr Minister, because you say that after the vote on the draft law you will create a working group with the three institutions, the PSE, the EIM, so that you can discuss their course, which should have been ahead of us, as well as - and as we have seen - the detailed discussion with the institutions, which are too many. Today, I still have a lot of documents on my e-mail from various bodies. Even the vote on the bill we are debating, namely, is not enough. It is necessary, but not sufficient, treaty. It is always necessary to draw up a regulation and adopt it by the European Commission. This legislative imperfection, Minister, does not help the Greek economy as it should. Because what we are legislating today is really a tool for the Greek economy. Normally, the aim should have been to develop a development policy and to discuss how to improve the quality of accreditation, standardisation and metrology services. Unfortunately, you do not have a plan for the country, but above all, you do not have the ability and the ability to get the country out of this crisis. Today's legislation is another sign that you are unable to manage the country's governance even on issues that you could discuss with stakeholders with the comfort of time in order to find optimal and effective solutions. You have not done so, and in fact we are only talking about how we can save the European Accreditation Agency, without regard for improving services. Of course, although time is limited and I do not want to abuse, I would like to say that it is not unprecedented, but it is now established in all the legislation that we have a large number of unrelated amendments, a sample of the dubiousness with which all ministries are legislating. Today we didn't have much. He's still the wake of Easter holidays, and maybe that's why. But we have no amendments in a bill. Both our rapporteur, Mr Dimas, and our parliamentary representative, Mr Javarra, have been explained this morning by both our rapporteur. They were detailed in their positions on the issues of amendments, the desecrated amendments with many ambiguities, and even when we are - I speak in my capacity, because for years I have been a teacher in higher education - a few weeks of the pan-Hellenic examinations and we have brought legislation that upsets thousands of children on the final route for the examinations. You know the exams first require is calm and cool, so they can concentrate on their cognitive objects. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. He left the State Secretary and did not answer Mr Dimas on key questions which are raised and which are unexplained, regarding the issue of diseases and the question of who will identify, etc. I will not take any more time, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I must conclude by saying that the country needs a credible and serious government, with a plan and capacity to manage this critical situation. You, unfortunately, do not serve this country and the criticalness it is going through.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr. Bourra. Mr Stylus has the floor from New Democracy. Before my colleague begins his post, I should like to inform the House that he is the last speaker. The last parliamentary representative, Mr Spartinos, will follow, and the request from the Bureau is that those of the rapporteurs or of special speakers who wish to give a reply, say so, to continue the process after the end of the list of speakers. The Minister will be closed, of course, and then the vote of the bill will be followed. Mr. Style, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u115	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I take the floor to speak solely on the amendment concerning the pan-Hellenic examinations, which is now an article in the bill, Article 12 of the bill. I'll say a few things that you know about. We have a new political leadership in the Ministry of Education because, according to the Prime Minister's crisis and assessment, the previous leadership of the Ministry of Education was found insufficient. So let's see what the new leadership of the Ministry of Education has done now. Without any reason, he started and raised the issue of pan-Hellenic examinations, and in this particular matter we have a number of statements and interventions of the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Education. At this point I am opening a parable: why is the Minister of Education not here to speak to us about this article 12 and send the State Secretary? I have not heard any statement by this State Secretary on this matter. Instead, all others who today were absent have spoken. Secondly, we have recently discussed in the Committee on Education, Youth, Education and the Media, and that is where we referred to this issue and asked the Ministry of Education's current leadership to have a minimum of understanding and a minimum consensus, so that we do not have statements and statements on this issue again, because it is a very substantial issue, for the very simple reason that it concerns tens of thousands of students and their families. You know all of you and all of us the process in which children and their families are in, when they give all-Greek exams. So we were asked there to have a minimum of understanding and immediately after the committee we had press reports from the Secretary-General to the President of the caregivers throughout Greece, so the matter was retabled, and then today's article came up. So let's see what happened so far. Today's leadership considered it to be a mistake what the Ministry of Education led last year. What did he do last year? He followed the folded one in relation to the pan-Hellenic exams, and he comes in and says he'll change it. How will it change, without knowing what it wants to do and without going into dialogue? It is not true and I will blame the State Secretary if I refer to what he has said. He said the Undersecretary of Education, in defending the amendment, that students who will give repetitive examinations in September will have the minimum of the last invader base at the school. This, ladies and gentlemen, is not here to disprove me, but I urge you to see the Minutes - we told them in the Committee on Forums. On what basis will the children be introduced in September at higher education schools? We told them, the opposition told them. This is the first sample that you don't have a dialogue, that you don't listen. Before you bring this article, this amendment, you could have consulted and not only consult the MPs or the parties, but with those who have the experience and know it, with the educational community. To discuss with teachers in public education, to discuss with teachers in schools, to use the experience of previous years. But you know everything! You don't need the experience of previous years. That is why you came last year and said that you were changing the Pan-Hellenic Committee again at the last minute. We have warned you and said not to think and dare not think of any other thoughts, in relation to the intact, objectivity and transparency of the pan-Hellenic examinations. And that is not just what we say to you, Mr Minister, but only to the political leadership. We call it those who participate in the committees at the Ministry. We say it again: Don't dare play with our children and their future! Another lie said by the current Undersecretary, who is probably unaware of the matter, is that those who will give tests in September will be out of percentage of those who will give tests in June and will be introduced at the rate. Why is this a big lie? The decision of the Minister of Education to reduce admissions to higher education schools has been preceded by the decision of the Minister of Education. And who's reducing? In schools with increased demand. So he reduced it to come and say, "I give you the opportunity to go in September". [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I asked questions to the committee and I did not get an answer. So I put them here and here today: in the September repetitive examinations, a student, who will not go well in the first lesson, will have the opportunity to give all four lessons. How many rating centers are these students' writings corrected? Until now, they were rated at two rating centers, in Athens and Thessaloniki and were the same ratings, who were before, selected by draw, cross-checked, and thus ensured the intact examinations. So now we're going to a rating centre - no one explained that to us, no one told us here - the writings will be assigned to a rating centre. And how much will these writings be? It's about 0.5% of the admissionees. So, in total, in all directions, it'll be about three hundred and four hundred children, and if we split them in a direction, it'll be about seventy, eighty kids, a hundred with nothing, impossible. That is where we can take care and say: four lessons in this direction, eight ratings. We can choose who these eight ratings are. We can also give a certain direction, to be much more efficacious. They know the teachers how to score. But in June, what did we achieve - so far - with the scorched one? We succeeded in being inconsistent because no one knew where the writings from Arta would go to rank, no one knew, for example, where the writings were going from Athens. So you come today and play with the future of our children and break the intransigence of the tests. We send a warning from here and say to you, in leadership, which may also have other thoughts to all those who participate, this: Know that this will not pass. And I'm telling you again, for the second time, don't dare. It is also a great challenge, when with such great ease, with such a great deal of care for a big issue, for a subject for which there should be dialogue, composition, consultation and programming, ladies and gentlemen, you come and say that a ministerial decision will come, which will determine the reasons for health. When will the ministerial decision come out? Schools are closing on May 9th. Why? We talked to the committee a month ago. What does the Minister have to think about, in order to bring us this ministerial decision, to come to the Greek Parliament and say, 'these are the criteria with the strict reasons'? We would expect you to come and say: "We do not give the opportunity to anyone who wants to abuse the possibility of repetitive examinations. We set strict criteria for health reasons, we say in particular what they are and in this way we go to the examinations." But you probably have other thoughts. That is why we are also voting against this article. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u116	The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Spartinos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the time we are discussing this bill is the same time that various interesting and historical issues are happening, I would say, in Europe and in our country. It is logical that this has given rise to a number of colleagues, particularly Members of Parliament, to make more general positions. I would also like to make one, two comments on this general debate, mainly on something that the Parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Reconciliation Mr Loverdes said. He told us that, only in Greece, populism, in France, lost, in the Netherlands, he lost. First of all, I would say that this is a very serious political inconsistency - at least - of Mr Loverdou to classify SYRIZA together with Lepen and Wilders. However, it seems that Mr Loverdos has not yet been able to digest - and I do not know if he will quickly or at some point miss it - that the collapse or collapse of the European Social Democracy began by Greece. It has been termed'saloconsumerisation'. Previously in France, they called it 'pasokistation'. A few weeks ago in the Netherlands they used another word. I do not know in Dutch exactly what the term is, but it obviously starts with the word 'PASOK'. So all this has caused him a very great bitterness. I do not know whether his view of populism is in agreement with all the Members of the Democratic Union, but he was clear, and I think that his position should not be left on. On the occasion of the French elections, we heard from Mr. Defence from Potami then tell us that, because we are against Lepen, because we said, like SYRIZA's brother party in France, the French Communist Party, 'never Lepen!', that means that we have changed our political walk and that we are now supporters of Macron. I do not know what position it has taken on this issue, and if its ideological physiognomy - which is still unclear - should be described as what it will say about the second round of the French elections. Let me come to the point of the law we're discussing. First of all, I was surprised, ladies and gentlemen, that while there were several speakers from New Democracy, and while it was this morning, at the beginning of the meeting, Mr Hatzidakis, who had legislated on 2013, Mr Hatzidakis was not on the list of speakers - he may have had some other, important obligation, I do not know - and they took a kindly decision - was a polite political move - his colleagues in the New Democracy to support at least the miserable energy he had done in 2013 by legislating in this way. The story of the merger of the three agencies, ELOT, EIM and ESYD, which was then made by the government of Samaras - Venizelos and Mr Hatzidakis, the current Vice-President of the New Democracy, is, I think, both teaching and very characteristic. It teaches - it must teach, I am not sure that it teaches all those who have ruled at that time - that in any way and costly shrinking the public and the wider public sector, this'sacrifice base', which we have heard many times, can create much more problems than what it is supposed to solve. It is also very characteristic - and I would say - of the mindset, the climate and the policy pursued by that government, which made it the king's king's king's, when with prudence and indifference it applied the doctrine of neoliberal austerity, not only in the USSR and in the wider public sector as well as in the entire Greek society. So, after that legislation, at some point, during an evaluation by the European Accreditation Agency, the incompatibility of coexistence with the two other bodies was found to be incompatible. And this - if it hadn't changed - would have a significant impact on the Greek accreditation certificates and therefore on the quality certificates and test reports of accredited bodies and laboratories, thus on the products, materials and services mentioned in these certificates. It would create a serious problem for Greek exports and the Greek economy. During the meetings of the committee and the hearing of the bodies, many other interesting elements were made known, confirming the inaccurate and dogmatic commitment of the government to short-sighted practices. First of all, we learned from my colleague Mr Jelleis, a special speaker of the Democratic Incorporation and from PASOK, that Mr Hatzidakis at the time did not want to hear the advice of the co-chairman PASOK, that this merger would probably create compatibility problems, in accordance with the provisions of European Regulation 765/2008. It seems that the ability of PASOK to influence that government was too small and did not allow the right view to prevail on this matter. However, the good fellow Member from PASOK remembered his right, although then, quite awkwardly enough, he tried and said various things, which were contradictory to me. He said that by 2015 that arrangement - Mr. Hatzidakis' legislation - had found a magic trick and everything was going well and suddenly, the problems arose after January 2015. He told us, then, that the regulation we are doing is just a temporary arrangement and we will bring in a new extension, that we will need another regulation, because it is just an extension that we will now take, which is completely untrue, because the absolute segregation of the USSR cannot create any problems at all. And this morning, in his report, he said - I do not know if I understood it correctly - that the merger could remain and it would be better if the three agencies were merged. We have heard all this from the representative of the same party, and really, I am confused about the position of the Democratic Alliance in the end. In addition, at the hearing of the bodies, we found that the markings by the European Accreditation Agency were made before 2013, as of 2012. The Minister said so. She also filed documents. The workers' associations in the ESS and ELO said so. They also submitted documents to the committee. Therefore, there was no justification for misleading or wrong at that time by the Minister responsible and the government at that time. Of course, we have also come to an absolute point, and I would say absurdity and a shallow opposition tactic that the New Democracy has been following for too long, to agree, in principle, on almost all the articles, apart from the amendments - I am not talking about them now - and finally to make a criticism, which was catalyst. And I wonder if they disagreed on all of this, what more would they have to say? Does this way of opposition hold parliamentary and political controversy at high level? They are questions which concern themselves, because they themselves have drawn up an opposition policy, a practice, which I think they should sometime - and they will be forced, I believe, by developments in events - to review. Now another serious issue has arisen from this whole debate in committee and in plenary, the issue of the sustainability of the two other agencies, the EIT and the EIM, which remain in the shape that has been created since the withdrawal of the ECHR. Indeed, there are issues there. The Minister said that they should be dealt with. The Ministry has started to think about how to deal with it. And the committee, which will be set up this week, as the Minister said, and which has been very mocked over and should be done beforehand, is a committee, precisely to solve these problems. The system, I would say in general, of the quality of the products, materials and services in our country, which has as a pillar these three agencies, wants a review, because it needs to go further and take roles that will significantly help Greek production, the Greek economy and Greek exports. That's what's left behind. He needs to redesign. And that's the object of this committee that the Ministry wants to set up. I think that together with this, the issue of market surveillance must also be addressed, which has been institutionalised by the European Union for many years and has also been in national legislation. However, national planning remains, not complete, because it focuses mainly on repressive action, as long as there is a safety problem in the products in circulation, and we also need to draw up a preventive action plan, as many European countries do in this area. Very briefly, in the time that is left, I should like to make a reference to a number of things that have been heard about the amendments. First of all, I would like to say that the legislation in existence since 1968, at the time of the junta - I was curious to hear from some side that it was better to say that the law was better - made it optional to the Minister of Labour if he wanted to take a holiday. Today this is not up to every Minister, but it is a permanent arrangement of the Greek state, honoring these struggles. And I'd say to some other colleagues who are worried that this piece of legislation stops, brakes the labour struggles, that the labour struggles are not braked by legislation. Labour struggles are developing and moving, if the labour movement, the workers themselves, have specific problems, they have specific ways of fighting them, from how effective these ways of fighting are. This is how history is progressing. On the other hand, I would like to say again - and I have said so on other occasions - that the labour movement and working class has never actually been represented, nor is it actually - by a single party, which can be regarded as having various rights to this class. With regard to the other amendment, which relates to the fight against undeclared work, I am under the impression that some of the speakers are likely to be concerned. I do not doubt that today the Labour Inspectorate has limited resources, as a result of the long-term policies pursued by the previous governments. And they're trying to do with these limited instruments the best they can. But there is, recently, a - I would say - an interesting activity of this Chamber of Labour Inspectors and the Ministry, all of this to be set up and organised as well as possible. I think that what the Minister told us will be mixed checks that will begin - Labour inspectorate, ECA, Economic Police and another body - that will make them much more effective. Finally, for the amendment to the repetitive examinations, I think that the Deputy Minister, Mr Baxvanakis, has given persuasive answers. I will say just one thing: It has been heard by many that it is coming at the last minute and that will create upsetting, etc. If it were other issues of the pan-Hellenic examinations, I could agree too. This, however, on the subject of whether a candidate is sick or has a serious problem losing a relative, has nothing to do with how much earlier or how much later he has come. Nobody knows today, forty-two days ago, whether he's gonna be sick when he's taking tests or if there's going to be a loss of facial loved ones. That is why, if we want to be constructive, we can make proposals, which can also be incorporated into the ministerial decision. But not to say what we think is easy to create impressions. Thank you very much and apologise for the abuse.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr Spartino, for completing the circle of interventions and parliamentary representatives and speakers on the list. We're going through the seconds of the rapporteurs and special speakers. The Bureau is proposing that Mr Jellonis be given the floor if you do not object to the rapporteurs and the special speakers of the other parliamentary parties, because he has an obligation on his parliamentary group. Then we'll go in a row, first Mr. Jamaklis, then whoever else wants. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u119	The House therefore agreed. Here, Mr. Jelloney, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u120	First of all, I would like to thank my colleagues for their understanding of the reason. Listening to the previous speaker, I have one thing to say. His efforts to abrogate the extreme populism he used throughout the period of the country's economic crisis, SYRIZA. I don't have to say much. These have been recorded in the consciousness of the world. I will only say what Ludemeis said: 'They have not been ashamed of the mouths for the lies that have been told, they have been ashamed of the lies themselves'. Now, in relation to the bill, yes, it's another extension. Why are you surprised? The Minister himself said so. It will now set up a committee again to see how this piece of legislation, which is a copy of Law 3066/2002, will be compatible with European requirements, because it knows very well that what it has brought, is not. And it is not because, with Law 3066, important points had also been made in order to be compatible with the European Accreditation Authority, where there are also in this bill. They deal with issues and other issues, such as independence, impartiality and transparency in the composition of the National Accreditation Board, which operates in the National Accreditation System for the issue or revocation and certification of the accreditation of technical competence and competence for bodies involved in the assessment of conformity of products, systems, services and persons. In particular, specific comments have been made on the non-representability and heterogeneous composition of the Board. That is, the number of thirteen members of the National Council - which remains in this bill - not only does it not solve the issue of representativeness, but it also creates additional problems. In order to be clearer - and I have said so to the committee - the representatives remain, a president appointed by the state and six representatives of ministries, that is to say, representatives of the State as a whole. Of these seven members, the majority is directly guaranteed, controlled by the governments concerned. In other words, there is no representativeness and proper representation on the part of the social partners. Because it has been heard, and that we accept the Chemical Association, their pan-Hellenic federation, to say that there are other requests. There's the TEI. There's GSEW.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u121	Inside is the TEI.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u122	Well, GSEBEE. All that has been pointed out to you and you do not now hear it for the first time. But once again, after two years of inertia, you come today and you legislate, bring in a bill, where it really has problems again, in relation to incompatibility with the European Authority. We must agree that the ECHR must be separated, as you say. At least, however, it must be compatible with what the European Accreditation Authority has already pointed out.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u123	Where hasn't that happened?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u124	I told you before, in relation to the composition of the National Council.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u125	Tell me in particular. In relation to the European Union?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u126	I told you earlier about the composition of the National Council, that seven of the thirteen members are directly controlled by the governments concerned, and this is incompatible with the European Authority's labelling. I'm very clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u127	It's fifteen, so seven is not a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u128	The second point, which needs immediate and special attention, concerns the reopening of the National Accreditation Board, which is an advisory body for the administration of the ESRB and not a decisive body, as recommended by the relevant European Union regulations. Third point is the overall financial management of the National Accreditation System in terms of costing accreditation services and external assessors involved. Fourth point is the update of the management and quality system. I should now like to say about committees which need to be made aware of the objections, where and how to do them. From our point of view - and I stressed this in the morning - we will be responsible. Yes, we recognise the need to have a National Accreditation Agency, even in the way it came to legislate under the urgency procedure, even if it still has gaps, in relation to the European Compatibility Accreditation Authority or not. We cannot say no to an agency that is nationally necessary and which is currently required to exist without any gaps. So we will vote for this bill with all the points we have made. For the amendments, I will only say that with such terminology, such as codification as the holiday of the Mayor, you do not save your left conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u129	Next is the special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Syntrakis. Here you go, Mr. Synergy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr President. In relation to the Education Ministry's amendment, which was, of course, incorporated into the draft law as Article 12, the Committee on Production and Trade was given the opportunity to make a specific proposal. What was that proposal? The amendment, Article 12, in any case, has two cases. The first case, which concerns the accessibility of PES graduates to the TEIs, the ASETE and the Higher Schools of Tourism, with which we agree, is to become a separate article, as well as paragraph 2 on the repetitive examinations for September - which is something quite different from paragraph 1 - to become a completely separate article. And that's why? To break the article in half. Therefore, instead of taking such a measure, the government is blackmailing the dilemma 'or you are voting for the article as it stands or you are voting against it'. Is that what we agree or who, in any case, agrees with paragraph 1, what will happen? So the government is actually blackmailing the vote of MPs and parties. So we made you the proposal to break this article, you did not. We therefore have to vote 'at present', and we would very much like to vote against paragraph 1 and vote against paragraph 2. Or at least withdraw it. We have also made the proposal to withdraw paragraph 2 so that we can be facilitated. And yet you didn't. In relation to the amendment which introduces on 1 May as a compulsory holiday day - our Member, Mr Katsotis, said quite a few things about this amendment - we said that we would vote on it. But you will not take away the opportunity to judge you and comment on the hypocritical role of the government and SYRIZA in general, which one week before the Labour Day celebration brings this issue to Parliament in order to have fun with the impressions, or rather to hide the new measures that it is preparing, the new measures that it has agreed with partners and are for trade union law, it is for pensions, it is for insurance, it is for tax reduction. In other words, you have voted for a third memorandum of yours here, which is the precedent of the government and especially of SYRIZA, you have loaded a lot of anti-grassroots, anti-grass measures, you are applying two previous memorials, namely those that voted for PASOK and New Democracy, you have agreed in the new measures that prepare and form the bridge for the fourth memorandum and you come, in a challenging way, because it is a challenge to the consciousness of the working class that is today fighting and struggling to stand up to the indiscriminate right to work, the indiscriminate right to live in the year 2017 to have his wages, to have his share, to be able to study his child, have access to primary health care, in the hospital, to be able to live a human life. It is therefore a hypocritical attitude on the part of the government, and as such we consider the specific amendment, which I repeat, we have no reason to vote on. That is all, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Mr. Synthraki. The special speaker from the river Mr. Dannelis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr President. Only two words about the amendments, because, as we have said in committee, we are voting in favour of them both at the outset and on the articles. For the Ministry of Education's amendment to the Pan-Hellenic I think that the government is trying to deal with a real problem in an incomplete manner and, of course, with a problematic practice. Because the way in which a human and real problem is tackled, I think it leaves room for unequal treatment of candidates and creates other issues. The practice is problematic, because on this extremely sensitive issue of the pan-Hellenic examinations it is the third time in recent months, and one month before the pan-Hellenics which creates a climate of uncertainty and debate in the candidates' circle, and that is one problem alone. We do not understand why this regulation is being implemented, and we certainly do not think that this should be done by creating a fair link between the funds again. Moreover, there are several problems that the ECA already has in order to lend funds and, as a matter of urgency, the problems it has. I don't know if this is the right time, and if it's the right methodology. In relation to the amendment to create the undeclared labour section, we will support it. The submission of the International Labour Convention 204 must become the law of the State and must be implemented, is positive. Finally, I do not really understand which amphetamines were recommended to the Minister, Mrs Ahtsoglou, to make the legislation which she proposes for the Mayor's Day. I imagine that there is no way that any government will refuse to sign a ministerial decision setting the Day of Day of Day. I do not imagine that there will be such a government in Greece and I do not imagine that there will be such a Minister. And, in any case, I think it is obvious to try to create impressions, but I do not think these impressions are favourable. After all, this arrangement lacks an issue that has a deep historical charge for the Left, that the Day is not a holiday, it is a strike. This historical charge is deprived even at a symbolic and semantic level. I do not think that, in any case, it was a good idea for you to make this legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mr. Dannelly. The reason for this is the special speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Dimas, who will also be the last of the rapporteurs and speakers in relation to secondary speeches. Then, Minister, you will take the floor, if you please, to close it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u134	For a minute, Mr President, I would like to speak and thank you very much. I just want it to be recorded in the Minutes that the Deputy Minister of Education was here, Mr Baxvanakis, and we asked him five very specific and reasonable questions, in my view. These questions were not rhetorical, we expected some answers. Mr. Undersecretary was here, but instead of answering, he left. I just want to say this to be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr. Dimas. Recorded your location. Minister, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr President. I'm gonna need less than five minutes. I'll be very brief. As you saw in my first speech, I tried not to abuse the time of the National Representation. There has been a lot of noise today on the ground, if you like, and the bill we have tabled and you will allow me to comment more generally, which is not only about today's debate. There is a great deal to be said of all those who have been publicly placed in the last period of development. In our view, both the Ministry of Economy and the Government as a whole, if we want to talk about growth, which this time will not be based on sound foundations, as in the past, but will be socially fair, environmentally sustainable and economically sustainable, it is not enough to talk about development, but we must do so, we must move on to projects. And the work that has been done in the Ministry of Economy in recent times is precisely this objective in both key areas: both in the field of financing with the initiatives taken to make use of all the resources, all the financial tools available to us, as well as the creation of new sources of funding available from the Greek economy and from Greece and abroad, and in the institutional field, a series of interventions, which have to do with the improvement of the economic environment. I would remind you of the bills to simplify the procedures for the authorisation and recommendation of enterprises that were voted on by Parliament last November. So this overall effort is also part of today's legislative initiative. So it's not a rifle in the air. It is part of a more comprehensive plan to improve the economic environment. After the full acceptance of this legislative initiative by the bodies at the hearing in the Committee on Production and Trade, we are pleased to see that the bill is now widely accepted in the House as well. That is what we think is a very positive fact, which must be noted. In relation to a number of objections which have been raised, you will allow me to speak on the issues of incompatibility. I want to be unequivocal. The legislative initiative came after full consultation with the European Agency. There's no question of incompatibility with the bill. In a few minutes it will be the law of the state with the European regulation. This is not the case, therefore. However, since, as we have said in committee and in the debate earlier in the House, it is not enough simply to remove the incompatibility that has existed in recent years, we are therefore moving on to this set-up of the working party. It is not a working party that comes back. It is a working group which is just coming to see and face up to the distortions of the past, but with the eye ahead, with the look in the future. In this sense, proposals will be put forward by this group with the participation of all the actors, and then we will also call on the political forces to place themselves on these proposals, to present their comments and comments, so that we can move forward with a comprehensive reform of the Accreditation and Certification System, a reform which is very important, both for the institutions themselves and the workers to them, as well as, of course, for the whole economy and especially for the export activities of Greek businesses. This initiative is in conjunction with other initiatives that come from our Ministry in the next period. They're related, if you want, initiatives. I am referring here to a very important one. It has been said before - and I also take the floor from that from Mr Spartin in his position - in relation to market surveillance and control. We believe that they create a structured, integrated framework which, after all the latest political developments, accompanying the completion of evaluation, creates much more optimistic prospects for the Greek economy in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles, amendments and the whole draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development is adjourned: "N.P.I.D. ‘National Accreditation System’ and other provisions. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u138	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u139	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u140	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u141	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u142	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u143	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u144	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u145	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u146	Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of Economy and Development: ‘N.P.I.D. the name ‘National Accreditation System’ and other provisions’ has been accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the vote on articles and amendments. Their vote will be taken separately. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u147	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u148	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u149	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u150	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u151	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u152	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u153	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u154	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u155	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Can Article 2, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u156	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u157	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u158	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u159	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u160	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u161	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u162	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u163	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u164	Article 2 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can Article 3, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u165	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u166	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u167	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u168	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u169	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u170	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u171	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u172	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u173	Article 3 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 4, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u174	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u175	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u176	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u177	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u178	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u179	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u180	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u181	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u182	Article 4 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u183	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u184	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u185	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u186	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u187	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u188	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u189	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u190	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u191	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u192	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u193	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u194	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u195	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u196	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u197	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u198	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u199	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u200	Article 6 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u201	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u202	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u203	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u204	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u205	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u206	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u207	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u208	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u209	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u210	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u211	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u212	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u213	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u214	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u215	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u216	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u217	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u218	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Can Article 9, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u219	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u220	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u221	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u222	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u223	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u224	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u225	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u226	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u227	Article 9 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 10 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u228	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u229	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u230	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u231	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u232	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u233	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u234	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u235	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u236	Article 10 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 11 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u237	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u238	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u239	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u240	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u241	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u242	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u243	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u244	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u245	Article 11 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u246	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u247	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u248	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u249	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u250	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u251	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u252	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u253	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u254	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 1022 and a special number 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u255	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u256	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u257	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u258	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u259	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u260	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u261	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u262	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u263	Therefore, the amendment under general number 1022 and a special 10 were accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 1023 and a special number 11 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u264	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u265	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u266	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u267	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u268	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u269	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u270	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u271	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u272	So the amendment under general number 1023 and a special 11 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 1024 and a special number 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u273	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u274	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u275	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u276	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u277	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u278	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u279	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u280	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u281	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 1024 and a special 12 were accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u282	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u283	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u284	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u285	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u286	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u287	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u288	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u289	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u290	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of Economy and Development: ‘N.P.I.D. ‘National Accreditation System and other provisions’ has been accepted in principle and in Articles. We are entering the vote on the entire bill. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u291	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u292	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u293	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u294	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u295	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u296	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u297	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u298	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u299	The bill was accepted by a majority and by the whole. Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of Economy and Development: ‘N.P.I.D. the name ‘National Accreditation System’ and other provisions’ has been accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and on the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u300	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u301	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-25-S1-commons.u302	With the consent of the House at 16.02 p.m., the sitting on Thursday 27 April 2017 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of a) parliamentary scrutiny: a) topical and urgent debate and b) legislative work: only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law: "Procedural mechanism for regulating company debt".
