ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-04-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: According to Parliament's approval from 3-5-2017, the minutes of its PRID meeting, on Tuesday 3 May 2017, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Definition of the International Convention for the Control and Management of the Work and Visiles from Ships, 2004 and other provisions’.]] I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence: "Clarification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway on cooperation in the field of defence equipment, systems and services". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We begin with our first question with number 3943-6-3-2017 question of the circle of petitions and questions by MP Pelles of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Theodoras Jackis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, concerning the inclusion of as many applicants as possible in the programme of young farmers without reducing the amount of aid and so on. Mrs. Jackie, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-04-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme will make a decisive contribution to rural development, and the measure of young farmers I could call it the most important measure of this programme. The aim of changing the ageing composition of the rural population is still an objective of the new CAP - I mean after 2020 - which means that the ageing of the agricultural population at European level has not yet been adequately addressed. The high average age of the rural world therefore remains a problem for our country as well, and I can say that it is also an obstacle to the dissemination of know-how and to the adoption of new cultivation practices and to the implementation of innovation and, in general, to the integration, I would say, to adjusting the agricultural world as far as possible to the changing conditions of the agricultural market. Since the beginning of the measure, Minister, there has been a problem with its funding. The available resources allocated to different regions appear not to be enough, in many of them, to satisfy and address the whole number of applicants, so that there is a risk that a significant number of potential beneficiaries of young farmers will be excluded not only from the current set-up programme of young farmers but also from the future because they have already submitted a declaration of start-up of rural activity. This problem also exists in the region of Central Macedonia, which is an important region in terms of rural activity. You know very well that a significant number of branded agricultural products are cultivated in central Macedonia, from fruit and vegetables to everything else that can be imagined, except citrus fruits. Of the EUR 240 million of total resources of the measure, only 18.9% have been brought to the region of Central Macedonia, i.e. about EUR 43.6 million, resulting in three and a half thousand applications and files that have been submitted to this region by young farmers for only two thousand three hundred. The result is one in three applicants to be complex. If we want to see the problem objectively, Minister, we have to say that the percentage allocated to the Region of Central Macedonia is significantly lower than the percentage that the Region of Central Macedonia participates in national GDP, which is about 26%. Mr Minister, as you know, the country's rural world, young farmers have embraced this very interesting measure. However, they are concerned and struggling for the overall development of the programme and for the evaluation of their dossiers and their evaluation process, particularly as to whether the available resources will actually be sufficient to satisfy as many farmers as possible or as a whole. We must, Minister, give these incentives so that this human potential can remain in the Greek countryside.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-04-S1-commons.u3	The Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr Apostleu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-04-S1-commons.u4	Madam President, your concern about the inclusion of as many young farmers as possible in this programme is understandable, but regional allocations were made after wide consultation with the regional authorities and we took serious account of the proposals put forward by the Committee of the Regions. The criteria used, with their respective gravity, were as follows: the importance of the primary sector at the gross value-added of 20%; the importance of the primary sector in employment a further 20%; the importance of livestock farming, livestock production; 10% age structure; the population potential of eligible holdings of 10% and 10%; the demand observed. As it is clear, I would say that a multi-critical analysis, which was not only limited to a specific size, such as the value added, was used, but we also appreciated other, such as employment, as I said, the importance of livestock and so on. On the basis of all the above, therefore, we have made an objective distribution, which reflects all aspects of the existing regional situation affecting this measure. Where are we now? The evaluation of aid applications by the regions is already under way and is expected to be completed in June. We had a problem with the State Aid Information System, the related computerisation has been restored, so the delay, which was really due to this problem, no longer exists. Since the invitation published was the first to implement this sub-measure, and in particular the first year of implementation of the Rural Development Programme, we will enable each region to take advantage of all the possibilities of including young farmers and possibly to make a new call on the basis of the appropriations allocated to them, thereby contributing to the improvement of the so-called 'age composition of the primary sector' and, of course, its competitiveness. There will also be every possibility of overcompensation for regions where the total budget for applications submitted goes beyond what is available, as it is in the region where you mentioned your position, but, at the same time, let me say that the right of the rest of the regions to implement their development strategy in the primary sector, and of course also to anoint young farmers through the available appropriations, will also be safeguarded.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-04-S1-commons.u5	Thank you. Mrs. Jackrey, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-04-S1-commons.u6	Minister, I have heard your answer on the possibility of opening a new invitation to apply for new farmers rather than those who have already submitted to the current programme, as well as on the possibility of overcompensation, which will be exhausted by the regions whose budget is to be exceeded. I think it is an opportunity - and not at the expense of the other regions - to really be able to join as many numbers as possible - why not all of them, Minister? - because this programme is very important. It contributes to the creation of a new generation of rural professionals, which I think together will help to make better use of the new technologies, which are so important for the production process - I will say it in general - but also to address the problem of unemployment, which is a very sensitive problem for these regions and I would say to the whole of the south, since this programme is creating new jobs literally. However, there are other issues relating to the overall development of the whole programme and its overall positive evaluation, that is, its positive outcome. One thing is what you have mentioned, the initiation and completion of the process of evaluating the dossiers already submitted. You told us that the evaluation has already begun and will be completed in June. But, Minister, when are we going to make the first disbursements? Because it is very important and that is where these programmes are intended. I would also like to ask you when the other measure that is in line with this programme will begin, namely the training and skills of farmers and small farms, which will enable them to apply for payments according to the hours of training they have carried out. I am also going to refer to something else, which I have been informed by another answer to a question that has been tabled by a colleague. I fundamentally welcome the joint efforts of the regions and the Ministry for the establishment of these joint teams, which will monitor the implementation of the overall programme, of the 2014-2020, so that we can also see substantially the absorption of resources through it. I will close with what I have said and first of all, that all of this will help to support the new generation of professional farmers, which will be acceptable to collective action and education and will offer these certified competitive-cost products, which will identify per unit of product the lowest overall environmental burden. Let me repeat that our aim must be to strengthen as many young farmers as possible. These young farmers will be called upon to fill the gap that arises every year, with the departure of older farmers, and will also strengthen the growth potential needed by the Greek countryside. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-04-S1-commons.u7	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-04-S1-commons.u8	As you said, my dear colleague, we have continuous and regular contact with regional government. In fact, yesterday, the Prime Minister, presenting the country's national plan for productive reconstruction, had a thorough and substantial discussion, I would say, with the regional authorities. A few days ago we also met as a Ministry, the political leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development, with the Union of Regions, together we decided to set up the group you mentioned, but at the same time we committed ourselves to calling for specific other measures, some of which - such as those concerning training, the education of farmers, the improvement plans - are very important to link them to the young farmers who are to join the programme. So we have essentially a course because we are well known to have allocated 37.4% of the resources of the Rural Development Programme to the regions. We have already announced ECU 1.6 billion so far. I would like to ask the Commissioner if he is prepared to give us an answer to this question. specific measures. So you realise that this thorough discussion and the cooperation climate that we have with the regions is what makes us think that this dialogue and understanding can make use of the specific money of the Rural Development Programme and serve what is our main objective and that is no other than the exit from the crisis and even after the agreement that we have reached, seems to be very close. So be sure of the whole rural area, as well as young farmers that there will be much better days than next year.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-04-S1-commons.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question in the House on Friday 5 May 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No. 779/2-5-2017 of the Athens Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaos Xydakis to the Minister of Culture and Sports regarding the electronic ticket to museums and archaeological sites. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by Mr Christos Stakouras on the financing of actions by criminal actions against the Greek State and the allocation of funds for social purposes under the number 780/2-5-2017. 3. PASOK-DIMAR Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the need for a direct issue of a circular specifying where the pension is cut (regardless of a fund) due to a rural activity or grant. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 781/2-5-2017 topical question by MP I Athens, New Democracy, Olga Kefaloyannis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the future of the National Museum of Contemporary Art. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No. 789/2-5-2017 of the Independent MEP Mr. Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject : « Ideally " constructions ` the new school books, written in the neo-liberal cheques, promote the degradation of our Greek Orthodox identity.' 3. The Question by MP Drama of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.His Kefalidou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the National Gallery and the costs of delaying the completion of the expansion project. 4. The question by No 649/27-3-2017 of Independent MEP II of Athens Efstathios Panagoulis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: “Provocative use of chemicals in protesters despite the recent explicit ban on the government and the commitment of the Minister”. 5. The question by number 461/8-2-2017 of MP II Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Helen Zarulia to the Minister of the Interior, on the "terrorist attack by kalashnikov against men of MATs". 6. The Question No 752/25-4-2017 by Congressman I Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Liana Kanelli to the Minister for the Environment and Energy concerning the meat processing plant at Saints Theodores Lechains Ilias. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 753/25-4-2017 by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the abolition or suspension of the 12th Municipal School of Thessaloniki. 8. The Question No 761/254-2017 by the Independent Member of the European Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister for Health, on the subject: "Will we submit an official application for the relocation of the European Medicines Agency?". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by the Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr Gerasiou (Makis) Balaoura to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the increase in OGA debts for retirement. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMARKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKGKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKHKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKHKKKHKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKHKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKK))))))))))))thstanstanstanstanstanstanstanstanstanstanstanstanstanstanstanstanstanstandzstanstanstanstanstanstanstanstanstanstanstanstanstanstanstantakstanstanstandallystandallystanstanthberthberthberth Minister of Minister of Minister of Minister of Minister of Minister of Minister of Minister of Minister of Minister of Minister of Minister of Minister of Minister of Minister of Minister of Minister of Minister of Minister of Minister of Minister of Minister of Minister of Minister of Minister of Minister of Minister of Minister of Minister of Minister of Minister of Minister of Minister of Minister of Minister of Minister of Minister of Minister of Minister of Minister of Minister We now move on to the fifth, with number 778/28-4-2017, a timely question for the first cycle of MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the compensation of the rose growers of the Regional Unit Pellas for damages suffered by their producers from the frost in the 3rd day of April 20-22. Mr. Delis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-04-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, today's question concerns the growers, mainly kernel producers of the villages located in the mountain range of Pella, and more specifically the municipalities of Edessa and Almopia in Aridia. Among them, of course, there are also several plum, apricots, early peaches, kiwi and apples. So these growers, Mr Minister, are literally in despair. Their situation is dramatic, since at the beginning of this year's crop year, they saw their expected production suffering too much damage, being destroyed almost entirely because of an ice-cream that happened on the day 20 to 22 April. And according to the findings of the autopsy made by the geoponets of the Regional Economy Directorate of Pella, in many villages the damage even reaches 100% of the expected cherries production and 80% with 90% of the expected production of the other fruits. This is certainly not the first time that tree farmers and more general farmers in Pella - and not just in Pella - have been faced with natural elements, since every year across the country there are many damages to agricultural crops from similar causes. At the same time, however, Minister, these growers who see their production being destroyed and their income being lost are forced to wait for the lengthy procedures - and you know it very well - of the ELGA for which they are paid but also to suffer the consequences not only of the anti-agricultural policy and the current government as a follow-up - within the European Union - but also the tax raid, which you and your Government have launched and which is also intensified by the latest measures that are expected to come to this House. In any case, what we want to ask you is what you are doing, so that these damage assessments are made immediately, as quickly as possible, so that these farmers are finally compensated in time and fair terms for 100% of their losses and until what we ask you to do is to suspend the payments of these affected trees, because, as you can see, they have no income to pay for these obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-04-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-04-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, we have had many and different damages in the specific area you are referring to. Damages from 20 to 22 April 2017 were caused by frost, mainly in cherries, but also in other trees. The necessary labels and announcements were made by the services of the ELGA and we have already entered the procedure for submitting statements of damage from producers. Furthermore, for the timely completion of the relevant assessment process by the ELGA has already faced the problem of the lack of valuers, through emergency procedures, and has hired two hundred geotechnics with an eight-month period of employment, so that we can also have the possibility of an early assessment. The work of individualised assessments will begin immediately after the fifteen days required to submit the declarations have passed. Of course, the relevant findings will be disclosed and the compensation payment procedure will be followed to the insurers. However, we also had ice-cream in the Almopia area on 28 March, where such damage was caused to various trees and for them we will, of course, proceed with personalised assessments. We also had in herbal capital Genarus damage to tree crops, as in February we had consequences for waterfall. But these causes are not covered by the ELGA. What we are doing is to draw up the relevant dossiers, which will be submitted to the European Commission. It is what we say will be paid out of state aid, known as PSA. It is a process, however, which requires time. Of course, what has been done especially lately is that this time has been shortened to half, because it does not need to be repeated, there is no need for double checks. We therefore state clearly that, in order to strengthen all these producers you are referring to, and in general all the damages, the production of the year of damage must, in addition, have been damaged by a type of product, at the county level, at least 30%. We cannot, if this damage does not exist, include him in the relevant file. Scientific evidence must also be provided by a committee designated by the Ministry of Rural Development, loss of production as a result of adverse weather conditions. You realise that these procedures must be followed, so that we can justify - both the European Commission and, of course, the Ministry of Finance - the payment of the corresponding aid. [[At this point the time bell ends the Minister's time is ringing.]] For the damages of 2016, I will tell you in my denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-04-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Delia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-04-S1-commons.u14	Minister, I think you too have acknowledged the great delay in the compensation procedure for farmers. Of course, you tried to justify it, but that delay anyway exists. You have used the phrase 'instantly', which means that they have not yet started. You spoke, of course, about the MAIs as well. In any case, the whole process, as I said in my initial position, is time-consuming. But here we must remind you, Minister, because you are talking to us about the ELGA: Who are we talking about? For the one who has still unpaid these tree farmers for their last year's damages, for the damage caused by hail and ice from 2016? Are you talking about the ELGA and a regulation that you also confessed does not cover all the damage? You talked about the fruiting. It does not cover all the damage caused as it should. You're talking about the ELGA, where there's no, no sign of state funding? Let us not, of course, talk about its sub-secretory, which is usually carried out by 'blocks', with fixed-term contractors. Of course, this results in a very long delay in compensation, which most of the time, if not all, is neither fair either. In this ELGA, Minister, the farmers and, in particular, the growers are obliged to pay too much 'bottle' premiums. We are talking about 50 to 60 euros per acre. So they normally pay their premiums for those who have and can - why did you talk about compensation to those who are aware of insurance - but what about those who are not in insurance? And why aren't they insurance records? Have you wondered? Let us not, of course, talk about the tree farmers owed since 2015, which relate to compensation and the reimbursement of the oil tax since 2015. And all of this again at the same time when the insurance contributions payment notices come to the farm house. We're talking about 90 euros a month. How are they gonna pay for this? With what income? With this income you haven't taken and owed it to them since last year? With the income they expected they'd get and been destroyed? Not to mention a new element, because now that the tree growers are moving on in the diluting in the southern parts of the Pella Prefecture, they find that half and more of them have already been misused. So the damage is extended to the southern part of the prefecture. In any case, we would also like a response to suspending the payment of all the obligations of these tree growers, which we have asked for, since they have neither had any income since last year and, it seems, will not have been this year. In order not to talk, of course, about the new measures and about the need for these own farmers to step up their struggles against their policies.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-04-S1-commons.u15	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-04-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Colleague, ELGA is an insurance agency, which operates in return. Therefore, based on the specific insurance risks it covers, there is a corresponding premium. From there on, getting away from these commitments is impossible. What we really think is to see how we broaden insurance risks, which, of course, means that a corresponding, proportionate study is needed. This committee has already been set up by the Ministry in consultation with ELGA, in order to move forward. However, additional insurance risks definitely mean a corresponding insurance cover. So this part is a matter. We cannot cover those who are not covered by the ELGA regulation today. There is a problem with those who have not paid their respective contributions. We are therefore stressing this once again. Before the end of the year, i.e. before the harvest for this activity, the ELGA must have an understanding and settlement of their debts. Because only if they are insurers, they will be able to take the part concerning the risk to which they have been insured. From there on, as far as the delay is concerned, I told you what is not covered. We are trying through the MAGPs to deal with them in consultation with the European Commission, of course, and since there is financial coverage from the Ministry of Finance. There we have very shortened the procedures. While it took two and three years, we've been down in half. Even the ELGA payments that are being covered today, if the farmers remember, were over a year old. We've already been down to six to seven months. As far as the area you are talking about is concerned, compensation of EUR 3 million has been paid in 2016 to insurance producers. The design is within May 2017 that findings are available from previous damages of 2016 to be settled. I must also tell you that, more generally, in the region - in western Macedonia, in central Macedonia, because we have areas with effects on ice and hails - ELGA has paid more than EUR 55 million in 2016. So payments are made by the agency. Of course, payments are made, as long as we are allowed to do so. We are already planning until the end of June to make payments of about EUR 70 million across Greece. As you can see, we are trying to be consistent, but do not forget that these payments also require certain procedures, which take a year. Especially when it comes to the MAGPs, a post-harvest assessment must be made and what we had in previous years, so that we can make the actual amount of the damage. From there on, the procedures, as I said before, require some time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-04-S1-commons.u17	Thank you. The third question will be discussed with number 770/26-2017 in the first cycle of the Parliament's Vice-President and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Health, on the need for the staffing and operation of the Polypowerful Regional Ideal of Lindos. Mr President, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-04-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I am coming back to this after a previous question I had asked, and I told you that the Lindos medical profession must be covered, because the only doctor who is there is not enough and all the machines are in the boxes and are not used. I told you there was no nurse. There's no organism. There's nothing. I told you, however, that in addition to Lindos' problem with residents, it is also a problem for tourism. Millions of tourists pass through Lindo, for some people who go to Rhodes visit Lindos, and of course the country is discredited. Sadly, however, defamation has been made by us. I have a front page of one of the largest newspapers in Rhodes and generally in the Dodecanese, which I will present for the Minutes, in which it writes: "It rains for the responsible ones. He was injured by American tourists, and French firefighters took care of her. Once again it turns out that the state of Athens does not only help Rhodes, but undermines it. For the American tourist who was injured there was no man offering her the first help. Fortunately, there has been a group of French fire extinguishers." This was also transmitted by foreign agencies and by those that compete with the country. You realize that the problem is national now. It's not just local. I contacted the doctor who told me that, despite being alone, twelve times a month is leaving, he says, at noon at 13:30 to inform the Rhodes Hospital. Doctors of health care centers indulge in the hospital, because apparently hospital doctors are not enough, they are few. That's what the doctor told me, he's been leaving 12 times a month. [[This is where the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] I repeat the doctor told me that. What matters, therefore, is that the area should be fully covered, especially since, for this traumatized region - she finally lived - they waited 20 minutes for the ambulance to come from the nearest health center in Archangel. So you realize the most acute problem there is. The first thing we can do is have a doctor there twenty-four hours. At least that's what's gonna happen. So my question, as you can see, is constructive and not the usual opposition.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-04-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-04-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. My dear colleague, we have, in fact, rediscussed problems of serving primary care structures in Rhodes. The picture we have on this Lindo Regional Medical Institute is that it is currently assigned to two qualified general doctors, one of whom covers the Lardos Community. Their names are available. So for a regional office - institutionals, it does not have the status of a multi-purpose regional doctor - I think it is the best possible staffing. Obviously, these areas during the tourist season are under much greater pressure and the needs of reliable health care are very increased. In my opinion, this is a major challenge for the whole country and for the whole island region. It is perfectly reasonable to demand that we have safe services to the visitors of the country, as, of course, also to the permanent residents. The geomorphology of our country and its specificity, I think, will always create difficulties and problems in dealing with incidents in time. I think it is a great challenge, not only for the political system but also as a whole for the functioning of the state, to be able at this difficult time of the crisis - but after that - to provide an incentive for attracting highly qualified scientists and doctors in the island and inaccessible areas. With the current legislative measures we have not always succeeded in achieving the best possible result. That's true. Great efforts have been made, additional economic incentives have been given, social benefits have been provided in consultation with self-government, the coverage has improved on many islands, which have had an empty medical presence for a long time, but that there is a problem, there is. So what I have the assurance of, for one thing, is that there is regular needs for both the staff of the Archangel Health Center and, obviously, in consultation with the EKAV of Rhodes and the hospital, which is one of the best, in my opinion, hospitals in the region, the total services provided to both residents and many, fortunately, visitors. There will always be difficulties when they occur in a relatively remote region. What we are doing now is an attempt to strengthen the operation of the EAW and the aerospace and waterways in the Aegean Sea as a whole. In Rhodes there was no problem because there was always an aerospace base. Now we have a second base in Syros and we are heading for a third in the northeast Aegean, probably in Mytilini. This will increase the system's response to rapid emergency response. There is the telemedicine system, which now applies to some isolated islands with very inadequate health, in consultation with the Second Ministry of Health. What we are mainly promoting is the development of a new primary health care model. We will, I believe, be able to discuss this in the framework of the legislative work in the next few years. I would like to tell you that four local health units have been developed in particular for the Dodecanese. We've already discussed how these things are directed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-04-S1-commons.u21	You have your dentistry too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-04-S1-commons.u22	I shall conclude, Mr President. Four local health units are provided for Rhodes. I think that these will also contribute to the current functioning of primary care structures. Three are for Kos, one of them will, in fact, be incorporated into the Antimachine Health Centre, which we know is not working as a health centre since its establishment. Another one will be in Kalymnos. A total of eight new structures, which I believe will support public care in the wider region of the Dodecanese and especially in Rhodes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-04-S1-commons.u23	Mr. Kremastein, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-04-S1-commons.u24	I sincerely, Minister, if what I hear is right, I must assume that we have different information. Because the doctor says that twelve times a month is leaving from 13:30, and is in the hospital, so you realize that, according to the doctor, there is no doctor in Lindos and for what you said, there are other doctors, the doctor of Lindos assured me that until first in Lardo, in Larma and in Calathos himself, but now it is no longer going. Apparently, they're the doctors you're talking about who's been there. But they're not in Lindo. Man says there's an additional problem, and even if he's there and an accident occurs in the acropolis, it takes an hour to go up and down and run the system. So there just needs to be a doctor there, not go on guarding in the hospital. In short, there must be a doctor. The second is that there must be an EKAV vehicle there and not wait for the vehicle to come from Archangel, because I repeat that there are millions of people in danger and the elderly, when they go up on the acropolis, except for the cardiology that can happen to each man. They told me tragic stories, for example, that an Englishman had a heart attack and they took him down from the acropolis, because there was no other person. It's a long way. So the problems are great. Because I think you have a good intention - I do not doubt it - I would suggest that you take a visit yourself and see them closely. Because I tell you not to trust the services we have, because the services are all idealizing them, because they have every reason to idealize them. I, because I believe that you have a good intention, I invite you to go myself to see what we are discussing, because no one is in the mood to come here - and above all I - to make stupid and cheap opposition if he does not think there is a problem. I have nothing more to say. You understand them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-04-S1-commons.u25	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-04-S1-commons.u26	That there is a problem, there is, and indeed, over the whole year, while, obviously, this is getting worse in the summer season. We've made a very big effort for two years to keep the health system up. We have focused mainly on public hospitals, which, due to the complete deorganisation of primary care in urban centres, had accepted all the large volumes of incidents, and not always regular, but also of years, even of primary character, in their newspapers. Now the health system seems to have found the necessary stability and this year is the year that we have planned an important intervention to upgrade primary care. We have a recruitment plan of about two thousand permanent doctors in the ERC. We have identified that about three hundred and ten hundred of them will be involved in primary care structures, i.e. health centres, multi-dimensional regional medical facilities where needed and structures of the EDN. In other words, the new structures, the local health units, which will be developed and financed through the ESRB, have identified in the rest a set of recruitments of permanent doctors from the ESR. I believe that this will be a significant reinforcement and, obviously, the primary care structures of Rhodes will also be included in this design. You are right that many times the picture on paper is not always consistent with reality, because there are particulars, because there are details, because - let us say - the most specific problems are not always raised, which are recorded at local level. I accept the invitation of the visit and we will really try - I had it in my mind anyway - to the next month and a half to plan a meeting or visit to the Hospital of Rhodes and the primary care structures. The consultation that will take place is, firstly, with the Ministry of Health, to see if it is not absolutely necessary, not to inform the doctor at the hospital and to remain as long as possible there or to inform the Archangelou Health Center possibly and, secondly, with the EAW to see operationally the possibility of having, at least during peak and highly visited hours, especially during the summer season, a permanent presence of an ambulance in the area. I think we can see this next time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-04-S1-commons.u27	Thank you for managing time too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, twenty-eight students and students and two educational attendants from the New Faliros High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The fourth under number 774-27-4-2017 topical question for the first cycle of the Athens MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panagiotarou to the Minister of Finance, on the "performance of the Olympic Games", will not be discussed due to the absence of the relevant Deputy Minister, Mr. Juliarakis. We will not discuss the second question with the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information on security in parcels as a result of a request from the Member of Parliament. We will not discuss the first question with number 775/28-4-2017 in the first cycle of the Member of Parliament of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Andreas Rizzoulis, on the completion of the HRP 3(a)/OCT 104747-26-10-2012 for zero participation in medicines and consumables in patients with a heart failure and a disability rate equal to or greater than 80% due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paul Pavakis. Due to a workload of the Minister of Finance, Euklidis Tsakalotou, the following topical questions will not be discussed: The sixth question, under number 773-27-4-2017, is the first question for the Member of Parliament, Mr. Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the privatisation of the Greek Vehicle Industry (ELVO). The first, with number 776/28-4-2017, topical question of the second cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition, Nicholas Igoumenidis, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the restoration of the regulation (due and undue) of debts of the DEEA Heraklion for the proper operation of the municipal water company. The fourth under number 584/13-2017 is a topical question by MP Kilkis of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of Finance about the "unreasonable divestment of the profitable Egnatia Road S.A.". The fifth question, number 696/4-2017, is the second question of the Member Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn, Christou Hadjisavvas, to the Minister of Finance, on 'Is the national economy ready for a possible collapse of the Eurozone'? The sixth question under number 705/6-4-2017 is the second question of the Athens Parliamentary of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zarulias to the Minister of Finance, concerning the "definition of court in the administration of the Superstate of Privatizations". The seventh ninth number 707/10-4-2017 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Alexandros Triantafyllidis to the Minister of Finance, on "First Camp Kordas: Showing the area in a super-local park". Nor will the eighth be discussed under number 697/5-4-2017, a topical question by MP II Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotarou to the Minister of Finance, on legislation to extend approved expenses beyond hospitals.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-04-S1-commons.u28	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-04-S1-commons.u29	You're welcome, Mrs. Zarulia.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-04-S1-commons.u30	Mr President, I hope this time that you will not turn off my microphone, like the last time you turned to a Soviet Parliament. With regard to this question, I was placed on 7 April on the appointment of the court with serious charges to the extent of a felony, Mrs. Catherineari, as director at the Supreme Court of Crisis. And because this was the first time that this topical question had been introduced - Mrs Christodoulou was chaired by Mrs Christodoulou, who even told me whether I have a sample that will not be discussed - a month has passed and no one has even come to answer us. So that's not an indication, it's a finding. It is obvious that the Minister of Finance is dealing with the further impoverishment of the Greek people and has no time to come to answer our questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-04-S1-commons.u31	I look at the designations and move on to the third debate under number 769/264/2017 on the second time question by MP Larissa of the PASOK Democratic Assent - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister of Health, on the subject of 'inapplicable anti-smoking law'. Mr Barriotta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-04-S1-commons.u32	Minister, we have had the same debate on the anti-smoking campaign and the smoking law last year, early June, in fact. I'll say the evidence I've said and then, which you know and are well known: 18% of deaths over thirty-five, according to some, are due to smoking. In Greece, deaths are estimated to be about twenty thousand per year. Respiratory and cardiovascular diseases are caused by smoking and passive smoking also affect tens of thousands of children and adults in enclosed areas where smokers smoke. According to one approach, about 1.5% of GDP, that is half of what we are discussing these days, is the cost of smoking as a cost to public health, to hospitals, which is divided into all social resources. The situation in Greece is also known. We discussed it last year and since then nothing has changed at all or, if it has changed, it has changed to the worst. There is complete impunity, the existing law no longer applies anywhere. Everyone smokes wherever they want and whenever they want, and this includes parliament, hospitals and medical facilities, and public places where children are. This is the current situation, despite the complete and explicit ban on the previous smoking law in enclosed areas. And it seems that no one cares either about the matter or about health, which, very briefly, due to time, I mentioned earlier, nor about the as serious, in my view, the question of the full implementation of the law, not only of this particular, but also of the legality and legal order in the country from a possible topic, which is every day in front of us and we are dealing with it everywhere, in all the places we are all moving. From the previous question to this day, there has been absolutely nothing, not even the convening of the Committee on Social Affairs to discuss smoking. It has been an unfortunate inspiration - in my opinion - to convene the Smoking Commission to limit smoking within this House, which has fortunately been postponed at the last minute, because the logic behind the application of a law is particularly problematic, as if the House were an island in general law. I will close the first part, asking what measures you intend to take, because you have not taken any measures to implement the anti-smoking law, No.3668/2010. Is there even a medium-term design? Is there a planning information campaign, which I think is equally important? Will there be a new law? Mr. Bascozos had at some point said that a change of law is being prepared. When? What will that law have? And in any case, will anti-smoking legislation ever be implemented? Are we going to have a new one? Will we be able to have a fundamental application of the anti-smoking law?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-04-S1-commons.u33	You're clear, Mr. Comrade. The Member, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, shall request permission from a short-day absence abroad from 12 May to 14 May 2017. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-04-S1-commons.u34	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-04-S1-commons.u35	My dear colleague, you are right to say that the debate has taken place before. You are right, too, to say that the picture has not improved and that in fact, in fact, L.3868/2010, which incorporated previous laws on the prohibition of smoking in enclosed areas, in public places and in others, is not applicable. As far as the pathology and effects of smoking on public health are concerned, I think we do not have to discuss this at all. The harmful effects of smoking and its function, its relevance to multiple diseases, are fully documented. Obviously, in addition to the positive effects on human health, there will also be budgetary positive effects. But I do not want to highlight this as the main objective. So we have a serious public health problem. But we also have a very well-established social behaviour, which has, of course, been strengthened in an environment of non-compliance with the law, non-existence or non-functional mechanisms of control and impunity. This is the environment in which we operate today. I think that, in fact, the problem is not so poor information, because you spoke about information campaigns. Perhaps where a targeted primary prevention intervention is needed, it is in the school population in the school environment, and this to some extent is done by addiction prevention centres, which have a dispersal across Greece and I think they do have in their scope and in their targeting of this type of updates. But it is clear that this is not enough. Smokers, fortunately - and I am opening up a parenthesis - have a downward trend in recent years over the past five years. Fixed with casualties is about 1/3 of the population. But there are also the other 2/3 that are disturbed by this behaviour. It is very interesting that 70% of smokers also declare that they are prepared to comply with the enforcement requirements. So it is also a question of protecting people's rights, which they choose and want to live in and circulate in places without suffering the harmful - also scientifically documented - effects of forced smoking. I do not want to justify or justify the state in general for its inertia. There's inertia. I could call on other priorities much more crucial for the survival of the health system, for the functioning of public structures, for the relief of people in access, etc. What we have done, is firstly that we recently made an up-to-date circular, which gives guidelines for law enforcement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-04-S1-commons.u36	In your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-04-S1-commons.u37	I shall conclude, Mr President. So we pulled out a circular. Circulars on their own obviously don't solve the problem. The problem is implementation. The law says who have the powers to control and impose fines. This is not a close responsibility of the Ministry. It requires interministerial cooperation and coordination of multiple control mechanisms. The local government, the port, the municipal police and of course the Health Inspectors (EEAA) are involved on the Ministry's side. We have ordered the JHA for regular checks especially in healthcare areas. Fortunately, the reports I have and the audit findings from three hospitals in Athens in recent years - "Hippokratio", "Evangelism" and "Metaxa" - do not identify - at least openly and documentedly - a problem of non-compliance with the law. Obviously there are indications that the law does not apply. At least, however, in the main areas where there are patients, there seems to be one observance. There may be offices, uncovered spaces, outdoor spaces, empty spaces, which must be monitored in a more systematic way. In the latter you are right that we have an unfinished business. Mr. Manius is also here. He can confirm it to you himself. I have asked him these days - the truth is, because I want to be honest - of your question and we have promised that in the next few days we will schedule the meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs on the coordination and measures to address this problem with a wider political consensus.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-04-S1-commons.u38	It is what we are saying that a law must be passed, which says that the laws are being implemented, Mr Barriotta.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-04-S1-commons.u39	You took my line, Mr President. That'd be the next thing I'd say. The truth is that a law on the application of the laws must be passed. Emmanuel Roides said so in 1878. We haven't had a rescue since.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-04-S1-commons.u40	That hasn't changed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-04-S1-commons.u41	We said we haven't had a rescue since. It's been a hundred and fifty years. I agree, Minister, with what you have said. It's really like that. I'm glad to see you. But as a friend told me the other day, politics is what is happening. He was very right, blaming, if you like, not a party but conceived politics. On this issue we have no actions. We have incomplete laws. One of the major problems of anti-smoking law is its control, its implementation, which is disgusting and problematic. I don't hesitate to say it. Multi-distribution, polynomial, too many services involved, so that everyone raises their hands high and nobody is involved. Municipal Police, Police, NYPD. The law has a problem with its executive, control mechanisms. They're so made that they don't work. So the first of the questions of my second cycle of dentistry is this: will we be able to discuss - as you said, it is indeed a matter of many ministries - the upcoming - and I am pleased to put the request in writing but I will not do so, I will expect the date to be set - the convening of the committee, among other things - the issue of the creation of an effective control mechanism? In hospitals if they tell you they don't smoke, they just don't look on the windows. They're full of butts. Any hospital in the country. I don't have to know. Wherever I've gone, there's no window - and chambers - that's not full of butts. The implementation of the law is extremely difficult, because, as you said, there is a culture of infringibility in the country. I'm afraid that's why she needs a communication campaign and an information campaign. I am afraid - and I shall say this - that the only contribution by this government to this culture of infraction, at least to smoking, is the image of Mr Polakis in the ministry of smoking and Mr Moussala - so that I do not unfairly blame Mr Polakis - for smoking on camera in press conference. This thing needs, above all, information and a war against the culture of infrastability that exists and reigns in the country and is also reigning for smoking. As you said, this is now a minority. Smokers are less than 1/3 of adults. But they smoke everywhere and smoke as if they were their right. This is also a matter of culture and information. To close, I would like to recapture. I am pleased that there will be a committee - at the end of May, Mr Manios said, and at the beginning of June, the world has not failed - and I am waiting for it. I think we should also see the bodies involved in this - the scientific companies, the cardiological company, the pulmonary company, the anti-smoking company - in the Committee on Social Affairs, but above all, to look at these two issues that I consider to be very important. Enlightenment that smoking is not a right in enclosed areas. It's nonsense and antisocial behavior. We all have to contribute where we come from. We cannot convey an image of infraction, the way that many of us do so. And the last thing is that, at last, if we want this law to be implemented - or I accept it, another one, if you wish to change it in its parts, as regards prohibitions and restrictions - must be implemented in particular and in order to implement its last piece, which is the application of its control mechanisms, must be effective and effective in cooperation with the ministries. It is characteristic - and I close with it - that revenues from the law, i.e. from fines in general-purpose stores, etc. In 2015 it was zero and the 2016 budget forecast is also zero. Nobody's dealing with this. It is time to start taking serious care of the good of public health. I conclude by saying that the economic impact in Greece is around 3 billion according to a 2011 study. It was so in 2011 and may now have fallen, because, as you said, it has started to reduce smoking. This is why an extremely important issue and a budget and, above all, a matter of public health. We need to see this sometime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-04-S1-commons.u42	Yes, sir. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-04-S1-commons.u43	Well, I think we'll agree. I really take the question as an intervention of anxiety and awareness. We will take the first step and it will be the debate in the Committee on Social Affairs. We will obviously also call on the scientific companies, although I do not think that, as I said before, no one disputes the harmfulness of this behaviour. The signal we want to send out from this debate is that the political world and the Greek Parliament are looking for measures of applied policy and not laws that do not apply. We have no intention of going to a change of law. We think the law should be strict. What is needed is coordination and overcoming the inertia of public administration and the difficulties that exist today in all the state's control mechanisms, so that we can give the world the signal, that something is beginning to move, and that we are gradually overcoming this period of total immunity and impunity. I also think it is important that you say that the signal and the message that there should be respect for the right of non-smokers to live and breathe without the smoke of their neighbors. This is a very crucial issue, which is related to a social culture of respect for the rights of others. But we must always have in mind that we are dealing with addicted people - nicotine is a very powerful addictive substance - and therefore with an inherent resistance to the restriction of this dependence. That must be quite clear. But I think that the image of a European country, which, in the most extreme way of all, does not apply this legislation - when our third-world neighbours have achieved it - really does not deserve us as a political system, as a scientific community, as a health professional, but as a modern European country. I'm keeping what we said, then. Apparently, it's gonna be useful.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-04-S1-commons.u44	We are on the committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-04-S1-commons.u45	Yes, the debate in the committee will make it easier for us and for us to have an agreed package of interventions which will be promoted in the next few months.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-04-S1-commons.u46	The second, with number 772-27-4-2017, topical question for the second cycle of the New Democracy MP, Jason Fotilla, to the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, on the immediate need for the construction of the commercial port of Patras, will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister responsible. Also the second question by No 4416/22-2017 question by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Eleni Zaroulia to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The right to vote and to stand as a vote by Greek residents abroad", will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister responsible.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-04-S1-commons.u47	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-04-S1-commons.u48	Didn't I give you an exception?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-04-S1-commons.u49	That's not the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-04-S1-commons.u50	Same thing. The point is the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-04-S1-commons.u51	Can I sit down? I am taking the floor for this question for the right to vote on the people of the world, which is valid throughout the world other than Greece, and I would like to say that the Golden Dawn had tabled a timely question when the New Democracy was still a government on 18-10-2012 and then the Minister replied that they were working on it and, of course, New Democracy did absolutely nothing. He's coming today to move the matter. Which is hypocrisy!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-04-S1-commons.u52	You are talking about the substance of the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-04-S1-commons.u53	No, wait a minute. I am complaining that there is some hypocrisy in here, because the mass deception has disappeared from political life a party that has been voted out of nearly half a million Greeks, and that is not our parliamentary control. So the same question was put to your government on March 22, 2017, under protocol No 4416, which has not been answered as a natural, because it was completely Stalinist, the Minister, Dad revolutionary of the anarchist son, who did not respond. So he just doesn't answer. Well, it's okay. Let him live his myth as long as it is, for soon this nationalist government will be in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-04-S1-commons.u54	I have the honour to inform the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 on the criminal liability of Ministers, as applicable, on 3-5-2017: 1. Criminal proceedings concerning the former Prime Minister George Papandreou and the members of his government; and 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Criminal proceedings concerning the Deputy Minister for Health Mr Paulo Polakis. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-04-S1-commons.u55	With the consent of this House at 13.12' the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, May 5, 2017, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: (a) the topical and urgent debate; and (b) the debate on Question No 19/16/24-4-2017 on the agenda that has been distributed.
