ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, forty-eight students and students and four educational attendants from the 36th Municipal School of Peristeri and the 5th Municipal School of Mandra at Attica. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law: ‘Adapting Greek legislation to the provisions of Directive (EU) 2015/2376 and other provisions’. This draft law has been characterised by the Government as an urgent one and the competent Standing Committee on Economic Affairs has, by a majority, accepted its designation as an urgency under Rule 110 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 30 May 2017 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting on principle, articles and amendments. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u2	So the House unanimously agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u4	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u5	Mr President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to two amendments, to announce them now so that the rapporteurs can refer them to their position. One is Amendment No 1047 and Amendment No 167, which extends a period of voluntary disclosure of taxable material. The period laid down in the first subparagraph of Article 57(1) of Law 4446/2016 shall be extended from that date until 30-9-2017. For declarations submitted from 1-6-2017 and until the end of the period referred to in the preceding paragraph, the additional tax rate from 10% which was up to 31-5 at 31-3 was 8% and up to 31-5 was 10% - from there is 12% the increase. The additional tax rates of 15% and 30% are set at 18% and 36% of the main tax respectively. Where the notification of the audit order or the invitation to provide information referred to in Article 14 has been made by 31-5-2017 for declarations submitted pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 3 of Article 58 of Law 4446/2016, from 1-6 to the end of the deadline to 30-9, 90 days, and from that notification the additional rate of 10 % of the additional tax referred to in Article 57(3) of Law 4446/2016 shall apply. For the other amendment with a general number of 1051 and a specialist of 171, I have to say that it is about the 31-12-2016 hotel companies, camps or leisure centres in general. Paragraph 4 of Article 13 of Law No 2971/2001 is considered to be applicable to the territory of a neighbouring Member State and in the event that there is a borderline between the projections on the side of the company and the Aegean, a public estate is inserted, even if the front of the company is a road of any form, if they have already been applied for or applied for within two months from the entry into force of this Law to the Public Property Company of the Ministry of Finance within a period of 30 days from the publication of this Law. The decision of the Minister of Finance shall lay down the specific conditions, the procedure and any details of the leases referred to in the preceding subparagraph. It was something that brings the balance between the corporations, which have the umbrellas, when an old cavalry or a road is mediated. In these cases the values are the same for the EBRD, as they are for the cavalry, which is given in the adjacent cases. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, too. Before giving the floor to the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Pavlides, I would like to make a statement. We had wished for the last time to be the last and only time we had the victims of the last terrorist act. Unfortunately, terrorist acts have been followed in Egypt against hardened Christians, as have the latest developments with victims and wounded in London. Consequently, the House today expresses its deepest sympathy and sympathy to the families of the victims. Of course, he always hopes that every time this thing happens, it's the last time. After this announcement, we proceed to the process. Mr. Pavlides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u7	Excuse me, Mr. Pavlidis. Will the parties be placed on this?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u8	I think it's not a matter of meeting. But if you all want to talk...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u9	Then, Mr President, in our speeches.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u10	Good. When the word is given, you can speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u11	Mr President, I would like to speak for a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u12	Here, Minister, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u13	Yes, for a date that I missed for the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u14	Mrs. Undersecretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u15	The arrangements under Law 2971/2001 are up to 31/12/2019 for decisions taken on the basis of the loan of the management body concerned. They are comparative data of the last five years that the General Secretariat of the Public Property has maintained, for the historical value of the holocaust that I mentioned before.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u16	The amendments will be distributed. Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u17	Mr President, it is at the beginning of the formality, so I would ask my colleagues and you to understand the essence of my argument, since I am not going to start. The Conference of Presidents decided by a majority to be the urgency procedure. Unjustly, as we described this new government setting at 100%. Integration of a directive and a lot of other articles, which could come under the ordinary legislative procedure, since one of the majority did not speak of prerequisites. They're probably prerequisites, but the government doesn't say it. So there is no reason for us to have an urgent and urgent debate. But, ladies and gentlemen, there is a very serious matter. As serious as you can't imagine, for lawyers, but for other professions. Rule 12, which comes to plenary, without suffering the suffering of the hearing of the bodies, abolishes legal secrecy without any institutional guarantee. That is unacceptable. Sounds like the government...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u18	That's why it's...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u19	Listen, Mr. Mada!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u20	No, to understand...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u21	Please, Mr. Mada, listen. We hear the government promised a change in Article 12. The Plenary Assembly of the country's Bar Associations has expressed negatively. I would like to ask the Minister - but now, not at the end of the procedure that we will not have the time, Mr President, and you will say that we have closed, not you, but the Bureau - to tell us whether there is room for change and what this change in Article 12 is.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u22	Mrs. Minister wants to answer. Here you go, Mrs. Papanatsiou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u23	We will bring the legislative improvements - corrections to the draft law, including Article 12(3) of the draft law, deleted and paragraphs 4 and 5 are renumbered to 3 and 4 respectively. At the request of the Bar Association, the disputed article is withdrawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u24	You have been raped, ladies and gentlemen of the majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u25	We didn't hurry, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u26	Please! Go on, Mr. Pavlides.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u27	Mr President, we will then table this with all the legislative improvements. We're already on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u28	You're gonna erase it, I won't...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u29	Delete. In a little while, the legislators will also be submitted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u30	Here, Mr. Pavlides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today in plenary contains provisions and the European directive, which aim, on the one hand, to facilitate the life of taxpayers and, on the other hand, to lay down rules and frameworks in which we need to harmonise ourselves. In Chapter I, in Articles 1 to 6 of the draft law, we have an adaptation of Greek legislation to the provisions of European Directive 2376/15 on the automatic exchange of information. The automatic exchange of information is an important means of dealing with cross-border tax fraud and tax evasion and contributes to a more efficient and efficient collection of taxes. This draft law seeks, firstly, to address the problem of cross-border tax avoidance, aggressive tax planning and harmful tax competition and, secondly, to strengthen the instruments and mechanisms established for administrative cooperation in the field of taxation. Since the erosion of the tax base significantly reduces national tax revenues and thus prevents Member States from applying development tax policies, it is now necessary to adopt ex ante tax decisions and ex ante intra-group pricing agreements. The clarification of tax legislation on taxpayers provides business security, encourages investment and compliance with the law and contributes to the objective of further developing the single market in the Union. However, the provision of information does not lead to the disclosure of commercial, industrial or professional secrecy and, secondly, does not lead to disclosure of information which would be contrary to public policy. Finally, provisions on confidentiality of information on the protection of personal data and business freedom are also amended. Chapter II of this draft law includes positive provisions of the Ministry of Finance, which deal with and resolve various issues that have been raised. In the context of dealing with problems of the humanitarian crisis, caused by the economic crisis in recent years, many businesses have been donating food. Article 7 extends the category of goods, the grant of which is exempted from the obligation to pay VAT, which was a deterrent to making donations. This will strengthen and support the participation of enterprises in the effort to reduce the food crisis. The VAT Code is also amended to farmers under the normal scheme selling their products through third parties, traders or agricultural cooperatives. Where liquidation is issued monthly, the VAT return of the intermediary shall be paid to the farmer who is also liable for the payment of VAT, avoiding the continued accumulation of a credit balance of VAT, inputs due to the non-recovery of output VAT. The proposed provision of Article 8 is replaced by Article 177 of the Customs Code with a new one. This is a need for the following reasons: updating, adapting and simplifying the legislative framework to the new data that emerged after the abolition of the former "FOD S.A.", better management of the seized items by making them more accessible, reducing the costs of management and safeguarding and increasing revenues from their disposal. In particular, paragraphs 1 and 2 shall consolidate the legislative framework for the management of confiscations by any criminal offence involving means of transport, containers and work machinery and seek to eliminate ambiguities, misinterpretations and bureaucratic procedures from the existence of many legislative provisions for their management. Paragraphs 3 to 6 shall be defined in the simplest, clearest and comprehensible way of dealing with the management and performance of confiscated persons. It shall also reduce the time between the confiscation until the seized means are divested in order to reduce their guarding costs and to achieve an increase in revenues from their timely disposal, without resulting in any reimbursement. The arithmetic limit of the auctioning of means of waterways is also abolished in order not to lead to the destruction of high-value waterways. These changes aim to avoid increased costs for public services and, secondly, to exploit the vehicles driven to recycling, thus enabling them to be allocated to educational institutions, Greek Police and Armed Forces for educational purposes, satisfying their years of demands. Under the proposed arrangements of Article 10, the real estate company "ETAD S.A." is to be taxed in order not to transfer tax burdens to the new holding company, of which it will become a subsidiary. Article 11 provides that new officials of the AACC of notices issued after this draft law may be appointed to individual posts recommended by the act of their appointment to the AACC Tax and Customs Academy, in order to monitor a compulsory introductory training programme for their integrated implementation, with a view to continuously improving the effectiveness of AACC services and the quality of services provided to citizens and businesses. For that period, civil servants will be counted and rewarded. Upon completion of compulsory introductory training, new officials shall occupy committed vacancies in services of an appropriate branch of the Authority in their regional unit of appointment. Article 12 makes legislative adjustments to the Code on Tax Procedure due to the application of the provisions of the IAEA. Thus, it is foreseen that any change in the interpretative position of the tax administration will not apply retroactively if it involves a retroactive tax burden on the taxpayer. A new delegated provision is added to enable the Commander of the ADP to determine by decision the categories of taxpayers who are obliged to provide the ADP with information on their business, which will be used in the audit procedure. The possibility for central and general government bodies to request and receive confidential information and information on taxpayers, if necessary for the exercise of their powers, shall be extended. New cases of procedural infringements and corresponding penalties for the non-issuance or inaccurate issue or termination of documents for non-taxable transactions, for example, the doctors' industry, as well as for the movement of goods without the existence of documentary movements, shall also be added. The fines shall be set according to the type of infringement and the obligation to comply with the corresponding accounting system. Article 13 regulates issues relating to property ownership. The party to bankruptcy is no longer subject to the HICP. It shall also be extended for two years, in 2017 and 2018, to suspend the application of the additional tax on the parcels of natural persons, in order to allow the taxpayers the necessary time to check the forest maps and, where necessary, to make the necessary corrections. Also in paragraphs 3 and 4, when granting a certificate for immovable property belonging to a poor person, the obligation to regulate HICP debts or property tax shall be abolished in order to facilitate the progressive sale of bankruptcy. Furthermore, when drawing up the notarial act of acceptance of an inheritance for the years in which the person concerned was liable, the certificate shall be issued, if the tax relating to the rate has been paid, i.e. the right to the property which is taxed, without requiring the tax to be adjusted for the remaining percentages or properties of the inherited person. Under the proposed provision of Article 14, following the European Court of Justice's judgment to the detriment of our country, the circle of beneficiaries of the tax exemption for the cause of the death of a first resident and now occupying the Greeks, the nationals of the Member States of the European Union and the nationals of the countries of the European Economic Area, residents of Greece and not. The proposed arrangement for Article 15 shall be deemed necessary in order to fill a legislative gap and to determine the time and method of submitting the special contribution declaration on the annual amount of the total amount imported and converted into euro for 2016 to 2019. An attempt is made by Article 16 to dismantle the courts and the DUs from pending cases and to delay the decision because of different interpretations by the competent authorities. The gains tax exemption relates to cases where the property was sold or rented, in which it operated an undertaking after the existing equipment in another undertaking, as it does not constitute a transfer to an undertaking. The proposed provision of Article 17 finally abolishes the obligation to produce aggregation of supporting documents and the subsequent issue of a certificate of electricity for the properties of which the licences were issued up to 31-12-1994. The proposed provision of Article 18 amends the provisions of beer legislation in order to enable beer to be tightened and harvested with fermentation beer plants and with non-alcoholic beverages and bottled water plants. In this way, a consistent demand for the Greek market is met and the conditions are created for strengthening domestic production, mainly cider and other beverages, with expected significant positive results at budgetary and social level. Our aim is for a large part of the imports to be replaced by internal production. Article 19 amends to articles of Law 4072/2012 in order to ensure the compatibility of the Greek legislation with the corresponding European legislation. Article 20 excludes the provisions applicable to legal persons classified as general government entities the Deposit and Investment Guarantee Fund, TEI, in a manner compatible with European Directives governing its purpose and functioning, as they have been incorporated into national law, including it in the broader framework of the European Banking and Banking Union. It is noted that the costs of the CEEC are covered by private taxes, which are borne by the participating credit institutions. Article 21 reshapes and updates the framework for the special liquidation of the Annulled Investment Services, GDP, in order to simplify and accelerate the process, reduce costs, strengthen the supervisory role of the Securities Committee and, in general, to complete the process more effectively for the benefit of both the EIF itself and its smooth transition to the next phase of liquidation, as well as to the investors with the greatest possible protection of their interests. In Article 22, the responsibility of members of the Supervisory Board of the Hellenic Company for Participation and Property lies with the members of the board of directors of this company. The proposed regulation, except that the mandatory housing needs of the following services are met, ensures that they are well operated and also protect the granted buildings which, due to their long lack of use, are not maintained, thus satisfying years of requests for the granting of public property to local government. In particular, the ownership of a public property in order to cover the housing needs of the municipality's services is granted to the Municipality of Algiers in Evrytania. Also, in the Municipality of Hersonissos, Heraklion, the ownership of public property is granted to cover housing needs for the services of the municipality. In addition, the municipality of Ekalia in Messinia is granted the ownership of a public property for the cultural purposes of the municipality. The municipality of Ekalia, again in Messinia, is granted the ownership of a public property for the cultural purposes of the municipality. The municipality of Ithaca in Kefalonia is granted the ownership of a public property for cultural purposes, housing of the "Ulysses Centre" of the municipality. The municipality of Nestos, Kavala, is granted the ownership of public property for cultural purposes and housing of the municipal library. The Ministry of Interior is granted the ownership of a public property to cover the housing needs of the Police Department of Miles. The proposed arrangement of Article 24 is granted to the Municipality of Spetses without any consideration of the Attica Prefecture of Attica the ownership of a public property to cover the housing needs of the Children's Station of Spetses, also under the condition of residence of the Polyvalent Iatrician Spetses. Under the proposed rules of Article 25, the Municipality of Rhodes is granted, in exchange, the ownership of the public property, which is the group of the "Rodical Patriarchate". Article 25 proposes a regulation laying down by decision of the Minister for Finance, with the agreement of the Board of Directors of the Olympian and Heritage Committee, the grant of free of charge to services of the General Government of Zappi Megalo and of the Committee for the Organising, with the costs of the particular nationally important exhibitions, educational, cultural and sporting events and conferences, celebrations and other relevant events. These free concessions may not exceed a total of EUR 40,000 per annum. In return for the loss of revenue by the Committee, the exemption from the obligation of HICP shall be introduced. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating contains provisions aimed at facilitating the lives of taxpayers as a whole, dealing with the food crisis, reducing public service operating costs, strengthening tax control in the fight against tax evasion, strengthening domestic production and satisfying years of demands by local government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, too. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Apostolos Vessiropoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is taking place in the shadow of the huge deadlock in which the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has led the country. No matter how much the government seeks accomplices, it won't find them. Mr. Tsipras sees his narratives falling apart. Because this government has always had the need for a account, which is, in fact, a myth, moving beyond and beyond reality. The government, which brought two memorials in two years, wanted to present debt regulation as a wrapping-up of a completely failed and bankrupt policy. Who does not remember the ingenuity to the tie that actually reflects the huge seriousness deficit that characterizes this government? At the moment, the government has achieved this through its so-called proud negotiation: firstly, to bring in two memoranda in two years and to load up a total of EUR 14.2 billion on the citizens' backs and even the weaker ones. Secondly, to worsen the debt sustainability index, which is evidenced by evidence. The International Monetary Fund in its report on debt sustainability analysis in June 2014 considered that this would enter a rapid degression orbit, thus being close to 60% of GDP in 2060. In the latest report in February 2017, the International Monetary Fund estimates that in 2060 public debt will be launched at 275% of GDP and the annual financial requirements from 13% of GDP, which was foreseen in June 2014, are now projected to be raised to 62% of GDP. For the information of the National Representation, I am tabling the relevant chart showing this dramatic deterioration. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Apostolos Veyropoulos, presents for the minutes the abovementioned diagram, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And I return to what the government has achieved through its supposedly proud negotiation: Thirdly, to remove the country's integration into the programme of quantitative relaxation. Fourthly, the completion of the second assessment and disbursement of the dose should remain in the air. The Government, with its signature in spring 2016, transferred the debt decisions itself after 2018. It is clear that some other than not knowing where they sign them, do not know the rules of operation of supranational organisations and of international relations. They have brought so close the boundaries between deception and deception, which are now indiscriminate even for themselves. Our partners have an obligation to address the problem of debt sustainability. But that's not good enough. The country must move on to structural changes, attract investment and establish a strong development perspective. We need realistic budgetary targets, not the atrocious surpluses that you yourself have concluded and signed up to. It needs a policy of declining and reducing tax burdens and a firm governance that will restore the climate of stability and security. Who believes that all of this can be achieved while this government remains in power? Ladies and gentlemen, I close this necessary parentheses to refer to the bill entitled 'Adapting Greek legislation to the provisions of Directive (EU) 2015/2376 and other provisions'. However, only its first six articles refer to the European directive. In my speech at the first meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs I had expressed the wish that the usual practice of tabling amendments should not be repeated, but, as this practice has proved, it has become a permanent practice for this government. Along with the contingency of the urgent procedure, a matter of parliamentary order arises. The way in which the government is legislating is in the hands of Parliament. The incorporation and adaptation of Directive 2015/2376 into national law effectively updates earlier European directives and amends the Law 4170/2013 that the Samara government has brought and voted for. This whole institutional framework focuses on addressing the problem of cross-border tax evasion and cooperation between the tax authorities of the countries of the European Union for the exchange of data and information. It is a pretext that some in the government have a weak and selective memory. They forget, or actually pretend they forget, what they do not care and expose. Let me remind them, then, of the attitude they took in trying to strengthen tax cooperation and exchange of information to control tax evasion, because I had the luck of being rapporteur for this draft law on adaptation to the National Law of the European Directive 2011/16 which focused on the new framework of international cooperation at administrative level for controlling and combating tax evasion. What did SYRIZA then do as an opposition? He was voting against everything with a argument that was initiated by so-called protection of personal data, undermining the attempt to control tax evasion and reaching krone for an analgesic and anti-democratic Europe. In essence, ladies and gentlemen, our country today has the possibility of making use of the framework for exchanging data and controlling tax evasion at a cross-border level thanks to the ratification of the convention with the OECD, but also to the incorporation into the national legislation of Directive 2011/16, in which it has been able to carry out checks on cases of fraud and trafficking in black money in countries of the European Union, as well as those that have ratified the Treaty with the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. SYRIZA voted against all this. However, it comes today and basically accepts them and votes them, since the first six articles of the bill are the adaptation and updating of the institutional interventions made four years ago in this direction. This alone demonstrates not only your inconsistency - because this is a given and characterised by the vast majority of citizens - but also that the government does not understand the rules governing our participation in the European Union. He does not understand these rules and considers that he can accept them or reject them at the appropriate time. The New Democracy will vote on Articles 1 to 6, which will enhance the possibility of control mechanisms to investigate and control cases of evasion. The provisions of these Articles broaden the scope and context of compulsory automatic exchange of information in relation to ex ante cross-border decisions and ex ante intra-group pricing agreements. At the same time, a central index is established for the Member States, which is linked to administrative cooperation in the field of taxation, and in which the information and information to be provided by the tax authorities of each country is recorded. The New Democracy is placed as a responsible political force. It comes to the debate of every bill with a synthetic and constructive attitude. In this context, I would say that there is a positive view on our part of a number of articles and provisions of this bill, such as: First, paragraph 1 of Article 7, according to which undertakings are exempted from VAT for feedingstuffs produced or traded and marketed without consideration for the feeding of schoolchildren. The provision by which farmers of the normal scheme selling their products via third parties, namely traders or agricultural cooperatives, will be liable to return VAT on the case of order sales of agricultural products on behalf of farmers of natural persons, for which the clearance is deemed monthly. Secondly, Article 8, which replaces Article 177 of the National Customs Code for confiscations and integrates the legislative framework for the management of confiscated means of transport, containers and works equipment from any criminal offence aimed at speeding up administrative procedures. As I said in committee, this change had to be done since there have been many problems over the last few years. One of these was the great problem that existed with the seized means of migrants and illegal immigrants, who were either sinking into a port of islands, such as Kos, or there was no framework for their immediate dive or destruction. Thirdly, Article 11, according to which the new employees of the Independent Public Revenue Authority will be able to be appointed to individual posts in the Tax or Customs Academy in order to attend a compulsory introductory training programme for their integrated education and training. Fourthly, we are also positively involved in the provisions governing matters relating to the payment and the certificate of HICP for bankruptcy in a bankruptcy procedure. Fifth, Articles 14 and 15, extending with the inhabitants of the European Economic Area the circle of beneficiaries of the inheritance and parental income tax to the first place of residence and specifying, respectively, changes in the time and method of submitting a special contribution declaration for shipping undertakings in particular for the years 2016 to 2019. Sixthly, Article 17, since we consider it to be in the right direction to abolish the procedure for submitting documents to the DU to issue a certificate of electricity for immovable property issued before 31/12-1994. Seventh, Article 21, which simplifys and facilitates the procedure for the special liquidation of public limited liability companies, which will be carried out by a person, a special clearer, and not by two persons, including the supervisor, as was the case to this day. Eighth, Articles 23 to 26, granting public property free of consideration to municipalities for public purposes. I have also pointed out to you, however, to the committee that there are other requests from the municipalities, which the state must deal with on an equal footing and not operate selectively. From there on, there are a number of articles and provisions relating to strong objections on our part. The New Democracy, from a position of principle, is in favour of the procedures, which provide flexibility and efficiency to the control process and to the effort to limit and eliminate tax evasion. First of all, Article 12(3), which allows the Independent Public Revenue Authority to collect information on taxpayers who are bound by professional secrecy not only for financial transactions with taxpayers but also for financial transactions between taxpayers carried out through them, is in this direction. How certain, though, is the government that this provision will not be faced with constitutional problems? I see there are comments from the Scientific Service of the House as well. Positive, Minister, is the fact that you will withdraw this provision. I come to another point again in Article 12, but this time in paragraph 5, with a new amendment to the Tax Code on fines. Nor do you yourself who bring them and vote for them all do you remember how many changes you have made to fines and all are moving in the sphere of irrationalism and inefficiency. They're all moving out of reality. By the provision of paragraph 5, you are once again changing the framework for fines for not issuing tax data for categories of companies that are not subject to VAT. However, instead of establishing realistic fines, you actually leave almost untouched, not to say "close the eye" to the great tax evasion. You set the fines at 500 euros, provided that someone keeps simple books and 1000 euros in case of bibliographical books. In other words, someone who has made a transaction of EUR 4,000 or EUR 5,000 and has not issued a tax item, will pay a fine of EUR 500. Does anyone want a lot of brains to figure out that most of the people will be tempted to risk it, since the fines are sub-machine of the transaction? On the other hand, non-issuance of a coffee will bring about a fine of EUR 250, which is not a rational treatment. Also, I would remind you that with Law No.4337/2015 you had brought in, you initially introduced as a fine not to issue a tax item 50% of the transaction VAT. In 2016, with Law 4410 you re-changing the framework, abolishing the fine to 50% of the transaction VAT and imposing a minimum fine for all infringements of non-issuance or inaccurate tax data by tax control, and in case the fines are doubled or tripled respectively. This new fine was EUR 250 in the case of simplified books and EUR 500 in the case of duplicates. However, if the VAT of 50% of the transaction is higher, this amount would be fined. It is clear that, with both previous provisions and today, neither the control of tax evasion nor tax compliance nor much more the building of relationships of trust between citizens and the state is achieved. And because from the New Democracy and the Speaker you always hear proposals, I quote all three basic principles, which must govern the institutional framework for the payment of fines, an institutional framework, which must be stable and there must be stable rules. These principles are as follows: Firstly, the direct fines of partial preventive tax control should be dissuasive for the audited, in order to achieve the objective of tax compliance. Secondly, the fines of a full or partial tax control should be collected and according to the tax rating of the audited person. Third, fines must be linked to the value of the hidden transaction for which no tax element was issued. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy has been positively confronting the suspension of the integration of agricultural parcels outside the plan for two years, for the period 2017-2018 in the supplementary tax of ENPIA. But it goes a long way to show it as your achievement, because you have institutionalised it, while we voted against it, and now you are forced to get it back because of the excessive burdens it will impose. Also, let me remind you of another achievement that the taxpayers have already paid for in 2016: You have reduced the threshold for placing the value of immovable property in the supplementary tax on HALF from EUR 300,000 to EUR 200,000 and more than doubled the rates of taxation. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government, which promised to abolish HISBIA, substantially increased the burdens of HISBIA. Also, there are articles and provisions relating to the operation of the surplus fund, where the public property has been managed for ninety years and has now left the control of the country. It is high time, then, that it is over, since it has practically collapsed, another account of you that is now a fairy tale. I am referring to the resistance against bad lenders from your government, which has now become a joke. No government had come up with any idea of transferring the entire public property to an eternal superstate under the control of lenders. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me two minutes, Mr. President. And your government came to give it. And who knows how many more he still has to give, just to remain in power, even for one day more. However, there is a clear question with Article 16, for which neither explanations were given, nor answers. Can Parliament accept the provision by which the sale or rental of a property, in which it operated with its equipment in another undertaking, does it not constitute a transfer of an undertaking to impose a capital gains tax, in fact, to have a retroactive scope and to include outstanding cases? I raised specific questions, for which there are no answers: who are you going to exempt them from paying the tax? If the tax is paid, what happens? What happens in cases where the right of recovery has been abandoned and in the case of companies already under control for previous uses? Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a brief reference to Amendment No 1053/173 to extend the number of agricultural businessmen who are entitled to a reduction in income tax, which is treated positively by us. However, the Minister for Rural Development should clarify that the definition of a professional farmer under Law 3874/2010, as amended by Article 65 of Law 4389/2016, is not affected by this provision. I would remind you that it was the government that eroded the tax and insurance burdens for farmers. It was the Minister for Rural Development who said that for this year, 90% of farmers will not pay tax and were disproved by the liquidators. Let me also remind you that it has already begun and ends in twenty days the submission of tax declarations and you are coming late and bringing this regulation. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy is a responsible political force. It is held responsible in view of the interests of the country. He has a plan for the country, he has solid ideas and suggestions. The country can't keep dragging. The sad thing about the place of governance SYRIZA - ANEL has to be done to get us out of the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, too. The Secretary-General, Mr Mavraanis, will support Amendment No 1048/168 on the regulation of matters relating to the overtime of drivers and candidates. Is that three minutes enough, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u35	Two minutes is enough, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u36	Here, Mr. Mavraani, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that in recent decades Greece has been walking with a system of examinations in the evaluation of drivers and candidates and a system of training for examiners, but also teachers of drivers' schools, which has left too many gaps and, in any case, leads us to decide a deep reform based on reliability, intact examinations, using technological means and online applications. But that takes time. That is why today we are coming with an amendment to extend for a six-month period the existing system of examinations. And I hope that's gonna be final. I want to believe that we have now completed the consultation cycle. We still have a little bit more of our time with technological training institutions to train drivers and examiners. On the other hand, we are moving in the right direction towards completing the technical specifications, which I said before. For this reason, the proposed amendment amends the provision of Article 2(1) of Law 4402/2016 in order to extend the existing system until 31/12/2017.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u38	Thank you very much. We proceed with the special speaker of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr Arvanitides. Here, Mr Arvanitides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u39	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I wish to wish the children who start their examinations and the good power of their parents. I will start my speech with a reference to the wider economic context in which this debate is taking place. Fifteen days ago the Prime Minister wore a tie on debt and told us that messages from abroad speak of a very good and comprehensive agreement. Fifteen days later, the government's signal is a dead end signal, anguish and a climate of summer 2015. Listen: If within two weeks there is such a divergence in events, then two things happen: Or the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance have consciously deceived the House to pass the measures or the government do not know what is happening to them. We have told you repeatedly that with the logic of'seeing and doing' you will not achieve anything. When you enter a negotiation and ask for money, it's always in power that you give the loan. So, in order to achieve a good, sustainable agreement, you must have a clear plan and specific objectives. Unfortunately, from the result it turns out you have nothing of either. But the worst part is not that. The worst, Minister, is that you cannot even respect the agreements you are signing, so that you are constantly calling for additional sacrifices from the citizens. That, you know, is not just the result of a bad negotiation. It is the result of full management incompetence. This is how the bill for the citizen has come to you for your days, in an economy that you have received, without deficits and then, as you have absolutely no problem signing on a white paper glue, you have no problem with it. So you signed up for the superstition for a hundred years, which I think you don't know exactly what we've handed over to the superstition. And so, apparently, you will also sign for surpluses by 2060. Of course, even if someone tries to deal with you in good faith, there is one question that has not been answered to date: Why are you doing all this? Let's say you're doing it for the chair. Can you tell us what the account is for your Government from now on? Is that the Memorandum? Do you want to stay in the history of the place as the best managers of the memorandum, just borrow at low interest rates? Or is it the debt? Will you go out, then, and tell the citizens that you are fighting to achieve what the country had already achieved in 2012 with the decisions of Eurogroup, which you threw into the trash? Is the growth that you've been fighting for years and you can't achieve anything? Or is it a social state that gets money from the poor to give them to the even poorest? Your caravan, ladies and gentlemen of counter-population, must perhaps make a stand and think. You need to think if today's canvas is the last, or if the real difficulties are in front of us. And to do that, you need to look at your luggage. In them, until yesterday you had the hope of the Greek people for better days, a hope that has made you white-faced, even in very difficult times. From tomorrow, however, you will only have time schedules, prerequisites and doses. Do you know why? Why did you choose the role of the manager? From now on, you will strive to convince the Greek people that you are best managers of the memorandum. Nothing more, nothing less. Just managers. From the wave that brought you to power, you are now left with only the winkel and sooner or later you will find that the power of power is not enough to resurrect the lost power of hope. But you have another problem: you do not learn from your mistakes. And while you repeat the same mistakes, the country will be doomed to live on the "Marmota Day". You should understand that the strategic deadlock in which you are located is turning into a strategic deadlock for the country. And if you don't make fast decisions to reverse the situation, the country is in danger of slipping into absolute inertia into the vacuum. I'm coming to the bill now. As I said in committee, the first part of the draft law complements the incorporation of European Directive 2376/2015 on compulsory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation. In essence, what we are trying to achieve is rapid information on tax matters between Member States and the committee, so that we can achieve two main objectives: to stop harmful tax competition between states, which distorts competition and, on the one hand, to pay the taxes that are actually commensurate with it, in every country in which it operates. I am referring to the well-known practices of triangular transactions, but also to other less popular cases of cross-border tax evasion, which cost expensive revenues from the states. In practice, the tool we have in our hands is the central index, a central information bank, in which all Member States will send two types of information: firstly, for changes in tax legislation and public administration decisions on cross-border decisions and, secondly, for corresponding changes in intra-group pricing. The only restriction under the Directive concerns bilateral or multilateral agreements with third countries, provided that such agreements do not permit them to be notified to third parties. At technical level to assist the work of the competent services of each Member State, the European Commission, in addition to the responsibility for establishing the Central Index by the end of 2017, should also prepare a standard form on the basis of which States will communicate the information provided. As regards the time period for notifying the information, there are two categories. The first concerns the ex ante cross-border decisions and intra-group pricing agreements between 2012 and 2016, which are still in force after 2014, and these should be sent in accordance with the Directive on 1-2018. Conversely, for those made from 2016 onwards, the notification should be made no later than three months after the six-month period of the decision. Finally, there is also a transitional period for the exchange of information between Member States until the Central Index is operational. This is generally the case, ladies and gentlemen, the directive we are about to vote on and concerns the first part of the bill. Before going to the second part, I would like to ask the Minister responsible two questions again. First of all, Minister, we want you to tell us: what will the service to be undertaken by Greece? Secondly, we want you to inform the House of any evidence available to the Independent Public Revenue Authority regarding how much revenue the Greek State loses from cases of cross-border tax evasion and aggressive tax planning. I now come to the second part of the bill. I have to say that, perhaps for the first time - several of the provisions of the bill are in a positive direction. Therefore, you will only allow me to address the points which have not been clarified in the committee and which need clarification. There is one point in Article 7, for which we have been asking for clarification for a week and refuse to reply, Minister. I repeat that we believe that the VAT exemption for donations does not include cases where it may be important. I brought you the example of a charity club that makes school meals for the Ministry of Education. I have asked whether, under the proposed regulation, VAT is finally exempted from VAT the raw materials it buys to use in this particular purpose. We believe that the provision cannot and does not exempt the categories of goods purchased. So you have to see it and tell us what exactly it is. I now come to Article 9. Minister, with what you said in committee, you have shown that this is not a mistake, but you are consciously choosing opaque. You told us that in order to inform the public about the confiscations found at customs, you chose the masonry method. Do you know why, ladies and gentlemen? Because, as the Minister told us, some small customs in the country have no connection with the internet. Therefore, they cannot upload invitations to the Internet. The government that would save the country from the crackdown on smuggling and tax evasion, the government that has surpluses, because there has been a stop to hatred and involvement, the government that is ready to conquer the space, tells us that information about confiscations will be done by masonry, because small customs have no Internet connection. Mrs. Secretary, do you have a fax for these customs to send to a service connected to the Internet and to post the post? Does the area have a post office to mail the decision to a service connected to the Internet? I think you're probably taking us for fools, not to mention the rest of the customs that have internet connections and are scandalously excluded. Along with the little ones, you're excluding the big ones. Correct the device immediately and establish mandatory suspension of all decisions on the Internet. All the rest are prophecies in sin. In Article 10, you are trying to deliver clearly from tax burdens and unfinished assets that will pass to the excess and especially the real estate of ETA S.A... You've been doing what you don't hear from us for a week. Since the first meeting of the committee, we have asked the House to be informed of the following: What infringements does the provision, which companies and what property does it involve, what tax burdens to which the provision refers, since the General Accounting Report does not mention at all? Fourthly, and more importantly, if, in addition to the deletion of tax burdens, there is also an exemption for those responsible for the tax infringements they committed. Article 15 shows that you have made a correction to the existing scheme to pay the special contribution for the currency converted into the euro. The paradox here - and we have told you repeatedly - is that, instead of modifying the existing arrangement to include the period until 2017, you are coming and replacing the entire article. We're waiting for an explanation, Minister, why you chose this procedure, this way of legislating. Article 20 excludes the CECF from general government bodies. And here we have asked the House to be informed if you have received an opinion on the matter from ELSTAT and the Bank of Greece. We're still waiting for an answer for that. Finally, I will close with the article in which you will be able to grant Zappia free to various public bodies up to 40,000 a year. What we are asking for is that there should not be shadows in the criteria for granting public bodies and instead of a'simply opinion', which, by the Board of Directors of the Committee on Olympia and Heritage, should be made 'in agreement'. If all of this is well-burned, as you say, then 'Look at Rhodes', Minister, change it. We, as Democratic Reconciliation, will expect to hear your answers and determine our position on the draft law. As far as the amendments are concerned, after they have been completed, I will be placed in my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr. Arvanitidis. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, forty-three students and students and four educational sessions from the 7th Kifisias Municipal School. Among the children, there are the boys of Mr. Kumucaku. The House welcomes all the children here today. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We move on to the next special speaker, Mr. Karakosta, on behalf of the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u41	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u42	Minister, would you like to speak now? Because the Minister of Justice is in a hurry, Mr. Kontonis, if you'll excuse me, Mr. Caracosta, I'll give him the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u43	No, Mr. President. After you gave the floor, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u44	I say it because you're in a hurry. Because you told me. Mr. Carachosta, can the Minister speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u45	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u46	So Mr. Kontonis has the floor to support the amendment under number 1049/169, entitled ‘Amendment of the provisions of paragraph 22 of Subsection C3 of Article 2 of Law No.4336/2015 and, in principle, the content of the authorisations provided for’. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u47	Mr President, these three regulations are technically pure. They are referring to the insolvency administrator, as the former bankruptcy practitioner has internationally prevailed, because we have now left the law of bankruptcy. The first arrangement concerns the compensation of the President and the members of the Management Board. The previous provision mentioned 'the Board of Directors' and meant, of course, the President, but it had to be cleared up here. We were asked by the General Accounting Office to report specifically to the President. The second concerns the definition of the members of the Committee of Inquiry and the paradoxical involvement, i.e. by ministerial decision. And the third regulation states that the terms and conditions for the certification of training providers are laid down by a decision of the Minister of Justice, for this procedure of the insolvency administrator. It is technical and corrective provisions, which were necessary to introduce, in order to have complete and complete the previous bill, which we voted on, on the insolvency administrator. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u48	Mr President, please allow me to ask the Minister a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u49	Mr. Loverdo, let Mr. Caracos speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u50	I just need a minute, because the Minister will leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u51	Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u52	Minister, I'm responding to your position under the Rules of Procedure. Let me tell you what you said, I want to see it. I know which article they refer to and where they are incorporated. We'll see when you testify to their integration. Before you came, however, in the morning, we had a discussion with the State Secretary for Finance on Article 12(3) of this draft law, which abolished professional secrecy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u53	He took it back.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u54	“He took it back” he says. Were you aware, as Minister of Justice, of his inclusion in it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u55	You do well to put it, Mr Loverdo, although it is not on the amendment that you are referring to. I, too, was informed by the President of the Athens Bar Association, who was kind enough to inform me. He had contacted the Justice Department. Today, Mrs Papanatsiou announced the withdrawal of this provision, which does not express the government's political will.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u56	Mr. Karakostas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. Just a few weeks after the resolution of the fourth memorandum and the bloody measures that this provides for the overwhelming majority of Greeks and Greeks, the government of loan sharks' servants brings forth a draft law with regulations and prerequisites, which the lenders did not have to write to you in order to vote in the middle of the last month. The fact that creditors and you are obeying them, without any objection, are not the nationalists, but they say so to your own members, namely, that the Director of your parliamentary group, Costas Zachariadis, confessed to it on a radio show. So listen to this, our compatriots, to know how hard the SYRIZA - ANEL government triumph works for our national interests! He said the Director of your parliamentary group: "We confess. We say the country is in custody - comitology. In fact, in budgetary terms, we are confronted with the institutions, with the troika. We are often taken over by the hand and written by the bill." That's what Mr. Zachariadis said and despite this, you have the courage to mock the Greek people with stories of the press that the country in 2018 comes out of the memoirs. You said in 2015 that you would get the country out of the memorials and have brought two new memorials since. You are still saying so, so everyone can conclude that what comes is not, of course, the exit from the memoranda and economic recovery, but the vote on new memoranda in the future. The reality is that the loan sharks are not the guarantee of the continuation of the memorials, but you of the government, along with those of the Civilian Anti-Population Officer and all the so-called democratic arch. For you are the ones who are impoverishing our people and plucking out their homeland, serving, not the Greeks, but your bosses in Berlin, Brussels, New York and Washington. You have left for two years that you have been incapable of governing those involved in the various 'lists', those who, as it seems, have not suffered the same sacrifices as those suffered by the overwhelming majority of our compatriots, but you are still burdening the unpredictable tax burdens on the non-preferential Greeks and you are enchanting on them, 'as gypsies skate', whenever the loan sharks congratulate you on the valuable services you offer them. We're coming to the draft law being passed. In Articles 1 to 6, Directive 2015/2376 on compulsory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation is incorporated into internal legislation with a view to combating cross-border avoidance. The relevant conditions are specified, the framework and procedure for the exchange of such information and the establishment of a list of information and data to which the Member States will have access. According to the explanatory statement, the purpose of these proposed provisions is to address cross-border tax avoidance, aggressive tax planning and harmful tax competition. Are these aggravating factors for the Greek economy? Clearly they are. Can they be treated with the policy followed by the government? Clearly they can't. And they cannot be tackled, because you, like the previous ones, are insisting, instead of correcting the intrinsic weaknesses of the economy, that you whistle the Greek companies, pushing them by method and system, either in the knuckle or out of the country in order to survive. But are you going to tell us: How to deal with the intrinsic weaknesses of the economy, once you are the creators of these weaknesses? The truth is that the operative cause of both tax evasion and tax evasion is your very party state, which is not, despite the continuation of the party state of the New Democracy and PASOK. The position of the Golden Dawn is clear. As long as the existing regime of extermination of taxation in the country is still in force as a result of the monumental commitments that you, Marxists and Liberals together are voting against, these morbid factors that are dying of the national economy, namely the evasion of people, businesses and capital outside borders, tax evasion, tax evasion and black money, will continue to exist, regardless of any legislative initiative by the Government or any Community directive, which will be part of internal legislation, as is the case here. Contrary to your avenger policy towards the non-preferential Greeks and to the Greek companies, Article 10 describes your attitude to your bosses, the real rulers of this Memorandum of Proctor. The tax issues of the Hellenic Company of Participation and Property and its subsidiaries are regulated, such as the Financial Stability Fund, the GOID and the Real Estate Company. It is considered that the uses of past years have not been found in tax infringements, whereas in cases where tax infringements occur, control is limited to specific cases only. The aim of this regulation is, on the one hand to cover earlier illegality in public companies and, on the other, to prepare the ground for the completion of either the divestment or the mortgageation of public property, for the benefit of our creditors, by a faithful application of the Memorandum of Understanding. This, of course, is not a short-term phenomenon or an exception, but it is the rule of your policy. I would also remind you that your government's intentions had been revealed since 2015 by the current President of the Parliament, Mr. Voutsis, when, in a conference of local government bodies, he had called for a certain number of, democratic "people", because, as he said at the time, the only benefited from the uncovering of the scandals and on the one hand, who see the light of the publicity is Golden Dawn. Similarly, in Article 11, we have the famous Independent Public Revenue Authority, which will be under the absolute control of lenders. They deal with matters of staffing of the Independent Public Revenue Authority, by setting up a person-to-people position, which are supposed to be abolished after the completion of the training of appointed officials and their movement into empty organic positions of the public. There is, of course, no guarantee that these positions will indeed be abolished in the future. The most important thing is that the feasibility of their recommendation is not sufficiently explained. That is what I wanted to say with regard to the party state, which we mentioned earlier, which is renovated under the rule of SYRIZA - ANEL and always with the consent of the bosses in Berlin. Article 12 is indicative of the new era of the monumental protectorate, a state of rats, which you hope to build. By paragraph 3 of that Article, you are effectively abolishing professional secrecy and are required by professionals to provide information on the financial transactions of their customers. By this provision, in fact, a State incapable of controlling tax evasion passes its own responsibilities on to professionals who are now called upon to play the role of auditor or tax evasion officer at the expense of the citizens with whom they have a professional relationship. I repeat that your Government, because it refuses to do so because it provides for tax control and because of the very structure of the post-government client state, is building a state of mobs and rats in the patterns of the sometimes communist states of Eastern Europe. I have to make reference here to the regulation in paragraph 6 concerning the obligation to present an ENVA certificate, when discussing actions against an inadmissible sentence, which has been found in most cases to be unconstitutional by dozens of judgments of Greek courts. Legislatively it has been decided that the imposition of property tax should not affect the core of the right to property and should not depend on the established constitutional right of the citizen to resort to justice from the fulfilment of or not of any of his tax obligations, because this is in direct contrast with Articles 17, 20 and 25 of the Constitution, as well as Article 6(1) of the ECHR. Golden Dawn is also contrary to Articles 20 and 21, as Article 20 excludes the Deposit and Investment Guarantee Fund from the financial reporting provisions and therefore undermines the State's control and supervisory role for the benefit of the European financial system. Accordingly, Article 21 regulates issues relating to the resolution and winding-up of stock exchanges and, hence, provides for the liquidation by a person, the special clearer, instead of the two, of the supervisor and the clearer, which also weakens the control mechanisms, in the process of resolving the stock exchanges, with what this implies in the area of transparency and, in particular, in a sensitive sector, with fresh memories of the crime of the Banking Exchange - PASOK. In conclusion, since the People's Association - Golden Dawn is placed on the bills, with its sole aim of the interest of the country and the non-preferential Greeks, we are voting against this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, too. We move on to the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Vardalis. Please, Mr Vardalis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the directive incorporated into internal legislation comes to amend a previous directive of the European Union, in 2011/16, which, of course, was amended last year by Law 4378, which we discussed here. What is this directive doing? Through automatic exchange of information, it is trying to face up to aspects of distortion of competition between monopolistic groups and, at the same time, to help capitalist development. That is what the explanatory statement says. While one would say that the issue is to catch up with the huge tax evasion of multinational companies - which we would not disagree with - the directive itself shows the deadlocks of 'free competition' and of 'free movement of capital', which make this objective impossible. For example, the first one to point out is that the European Union itself is forced to amend its earlier directives and, in fact, in a very short time. Why? Because they were, in practice, ineffective. This alone shows the scale of the difficulty and the inefficiency of such efforts. In a way, you admit that, while we have the modernisation of legislation, capital always finds new ways to get past it and avoid it, because once you accept the four freedoms of Maastricht, the freedom to move capital, goods, services and workers, since the pursuit of the maximum rate of profit is the pursuit of capital, very little efficiency you will have, whatever measures you take. On the other hand, large capital, business groups, tax evasion and tax fraud are legally avoided. For example, all previous governments and today have voted for a series of laws with incredible privileges, tax exemptions, subsidies and other measures to ensure the profits of business groups. The cause of tax evasion is not a Greek peculiarity, nor, of course, is the ineffectiveness of tax mechanisms or the lack of information. Tax evasion is a characteristic feature of the modern capitalist way of organising the economy, and this is because tax exemption, tax evasion, tax evasion of big capital are an important factor in supporting capitalist profits. Third question: It is explicitly stated on page 2 of the explanatory statement that the provision of information should not lead to the disclosure of commercial, industrial or professional secrecy of the commercial method, etc... In other words, the competition, the patents, the various secrets, which will be invoked by the business groups, will make this process ineffective. Fourthly, the provisions are limited only to countries - members of the European Union, allowing multinational monopolies to'saving' through third countries, i.e. using intra-group transactions to and from third countries with low tax rates as a tool for legal avoidance. Overall, this tax policy will, as in the past, lead to new tax measures against people's incomes. Not many days have passed since, with the multi-brand plan for the prerequisites of the second assessment, you are even taxing the salary of four hundred euros. Moreover, the compulsory exchange of information relates to some basic, standardised information, as stated in the explanatory statement, and not to all the information required. Under no circumstances will capital be weighed up, because, with the specific integration of Directive 2015/2376, certain conditions such as widening the scope and creating a central index for the Member States, where information to be communicated by the Member States of the European Union will be recorded. In conclusion: You cannot claim to smash tax evasion when the liberalisation of capital has created more favourable conditions for tax havens today. Not only do you agree with all this, but you support them with your hands and feet. You cannot, on the one hand, agree with the Maastricht Treaty, you can agree with the Lisbon Treaty and the European Union's 'Europe 2020' development strategy and, on the other, say that you will hit tax evasion. As long as the economy operates on the basis of capitalist profit, tax evasion will never be struck. You may periodically limit it, but up to there. Competition and tax competition between business groups, monopolies, will escalate tax evasion again. But it is not just competition. You are all talking about the need to attract investment. You say that in order for these investments to come, we need to reduce corporate taxation. Are you saying or aren't you all saying all this? Of course you are. But it is precisely your policy that will slowly lead to the total tax exemption of large capital. And when you tax the business groups, then these burdens are loaded on the backs of the workers and the poor people's bodies. Do information need to be exploited, catch the tax evasion of business groups? Obviously no one will say no and we definitely say yes. But in any case, your anti-Flemish, anti-Flemish policy will continue because any part of the tax evasion of business groups will be balanced by the corresponding or even greater increase in the legal evasion of business groups. So no delusion should have the popular strata that you will catch the tax evasion or part of it and that they - the popular strata, that is - will have more positive than your government's policy. That is why the only way to deal with tax evasion is by collision with capitalist profit, with the interests and actions of business groups. In the second chapter of the bill, which is larger, there are a number of articles regulating tax matters of the Greek Company of Participation and Property and its direct subsidiaries, the arrangements for the Financial Stability Fund, the Private Property Development Fund of the State - the well-known HEAD -, the Public Property Company - ETAD - and the Public Participation Company. With these arrangements you are giving tax debts, additional taxes, fines and increases of the Real Estate Company and you are trying to resolve various malfunctions in the administration of the supranational privatizations, obviously in order to make its job better, to carry out its mission, to implement its vision, which is no other than the advance of privatisations, the divestment of public property. Excludes the Deposit Guarantee Fund from the provisions applicable to legal persons classified as General Government Bodies under the pillar of the European Banking Union. You are strengthening the Securities and Exchange Commission. The main nature of the arrangements relating to the VAT code, the customs code, the tax procedure code, the income tax code, is essentially about improving the tax system, because it is obviously not enough to put taxes on the people, but they must also be collected. In this effort and in order for you to have results, you do not count anything. During the debate in the committee, we have highlighted the attempt to put the knit even ahead. Of course, you have announced today the withdrawal of paragraph 3 of Article 12 concerning the collection of information by third parties, even by abolishing professional secrecy, but also by this withdrawal of paragraph 3, the nature of Article 12 does not change. What's that character? He's trying to improve the collecting mechanism to collect the taxes you put on popular families. However - the problem I would say - is not its mechanism and its improvement, but your tax policy needs to be changed. In addition, with the changes you make to the VAT Code, you are charging the liquidity problems of the authorising officers to farmers and at the same time going to reduce the return of VAT from the state. Farmers will have to pay VAT, and they will not have been paid by their harvest. It is almost certain that the next step will be the return per month of VAT, i.e. more accounting costs, to which only the big farmers - entrepreneurs will be able to cope. In practice, small and medium-sized farmers will pay it again. As for the transfer of the implementation of the ENPI to the fields, a law that you voted on, it is mainly for technical reasons and not for the pain of reducing farmers. We are generally opposed to the application of the supplementary tax in the fields and, in our opinion, should be abolished, as should HISPIA as a whole. I would like to take the time left to dwell on some of the amendments that we consider to be important. Firstly, we have tabled an amendment which will deal with a problem of years that is faced with agriculture in the regions and also with the Ministry of Rural Development, which make quality controls on products. They are employed outside hours, they are making miles of their own cars, without receiving compensation, since 2011. We think it is unacceptable to ask workers to work and not to be paid. We call on the government to accept it. Secondly, with your Ministerial Amendment 1051/171, you are proving that you have no barrier. You see, it is in the summer and the time has come for the government to satisfy every but every wish, to remove all obstacles, to ensure the smooth operation of businesses for the benefit of the national economy, as you say in the explanatory statement to this amendment, in the tourism sector, by leasing every piece of public property - saints - which might be of interest to big business. In simple terms, you are giving for exploitation every square common space of the saint as a north to hoteliers and other business groups active in tourism. At the same time, you have the courage to talk about growth with respect for the environment, for free access to beaches and so forth. The undisturbed profitability of the funds that are active in tourism is being baptized in this case ‘national interest’. Such measures are not an exception, but the rule and best confirm the position of the communist party on long-term political support from the SYRIZA Government of large tourist capital. As for the popular layers, if they don't pay, they won't see the sea with the binoculars. After all, when you talk about developing tourism, you do not think about the universal right of people's families for holidays. You only count arrivals and mainly increased receipts and you are looking for more and more wealthy customers. But also SMEs active in tourism must not be illegitimate. The more measures are taken in favour of large tourist capital, the less small tourist operators will benefit, which are constantly underpressed by the range of services that large units can offer, and even at better prices. Thirdly, we agree with Amendment No 1048 concerning the six-month extension of driving tests, although we would like a permanent and comprehensive solution to this issue. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. To conclude, Amendment 1047 concerning the extension of the law on money laundering in our view - which we expressed when the law was adopted - is also money laundering. In fact, we are dealing with a number of provisions for granting amnesty tax, even for offences such as money laundering, tax evasion, smuggling, etc. We then voted against the law and obviously oppose it. In all, we are voting against this bill in principle. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr. Vardalis. We shall proceed to the next, special speaker of the Centro-Centro-Cavadela Association. Mr. Cavadela, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u61	Thank you very much, Mr President. 'Numbers', 'absents', 'institutions', 'creative ambiguity' are some of the words and phrases that we are called upon to manage, understand. "Practical actions" SYRIZA said it was to bring in a bill with the urgency procedure, the urgency. Today, he thinks it is positive. He brings at the last minute this bill and other things he's already brought. He's used to baptizing them urgently or urgently. It does so because it does not believe in a united Europe. He's just dragging to legislate, exhausting every margin of time. It looks like the bad student who leaves his homework for the last minute and in vain meets his obligations. Another reason that does this is as follows: The less a bill is discussed, the less frictions within it. And there's rubbing inside because others promised and completely opposite. The Central Association is the only firm pro-European party that finds positive efforts to harmonise Greek legislation with European legislation, with the aim at some point of achieving European integration both in terms of the legal and economic and of course the defence, which is important for us, so that Greece's external borders are protected as European. This draft law consists of twenty-eight plus one articles and is divided into two chapters. By means of Chapter I, Articles 1 to 6, it intends to incorporate in national law the provisions of Council Directive 2015/2376 of 8 December 2015 amending Directive 2011/16/EU applicable after amendments to compulsory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation. Chapter B' is Articles 7 to 28 plus 29, which merely defines the entry into force of this law and contains regulatory provisions which, as I said, do not justify the urgency procedure. Chapter I is rightly attempting to address the problem of cross-border tax evasion, tax competition and it contains articles that we should have incorporated from 1 January 2017 in order to tackle the above cross-border problems more effectively and not just because the issue is also the settlement of a harmful tax competition that is currently being implemented by certain Member States - the European Union. It is known that there are different tax rates from country to country, different VAT rates, different tax and labour policy in general. It is also clear that there is a question of transparency and therefore an automatic exchange of information within the European Union is necessary. Our country, with the provisions of Law No 4170/2013, like other Member States, has incorporated Directive 2011/16/EU by providing for an automatic exchange of information between Member States in five specific cases and within certain deadlines. Here, of course, there was a serious problem, as the exchange of this information was based on the spontaneity and initiative of the Member States of the European Union, even the discretion of the Member State concerned to adopt a decision choosing which other Member States should be informed accordingly and which should not. Naturally, all the Member States of the European Union must have access to this information. There is a serious question here, however, about the protection of businesses, the protection of commercial secrecy and the disclosure of information which would jeopardise public policy. Paragraphs 1 and 2 consolidate the legislative framework for the management of confiscated persons by any criminal offence, and prior to discrimination. It's a positive course. There were different ways and places of storage. The result was a reduction in the value of the seized and the smuggling of public money. It is well known that the shelling vehicles were literally stripped of cheeks. They took doors, windows, mechanical parts, etc. It is therefore necessary to photograph the seized material - it is simply this technological application now - to make a comprehensive and descriptive protocol of receipt and delivery and if no escrow is found, a special escrow should be appointed to monitor the course until the divestment. However, the five-day deadline for definition of an escrow is insufficient. It's not easy to organize this within five days. Paragraph 2 also sets out criteria and obligations for the appointment of escrows with respect to floating means and thus reduces the costs of managing, keeping, portraying and protecting the seized instrument. Paragraphs 5 and 6 are also favourable. I asked President Balaura the other day to invite SITH, and they are the professionals who operate with the tourist ships, and where there are huge problems. One of the problems that exist and is happening very often is that, for example, a ship rent office rents the business boat to some who, instead of making tourism, go to Turkey, fill it with irregular immigrants, are arrested on the way and the ship is confiscated. Until the final decision comes out, it remains confiscated, everyone goes and gets something from above, so rots and destroys the property of a person who tries to act in tourism and is generally drowned and our tourism. That's what we need to see. It must in some way be defined as an escrow, that the vessel should be returned until a final decision is taken by the owner. In paragraph 6, provision is made for the use of rules of vehicles which have previously led to the dissolution and recycling. And that's good. This is provided for in paragraph 11 which determines the availability to the Greek Police and the Armed Forces of Confiscation of Vehicles and Machinery. Here you promised that an amendment on the provision of Article 12(3) would be tabled, which widened the scope of the Independent Public Revenue Authority to collect information on taxpayers. You said you'd remove them. We expect to see the amendment. Here there is the same attitude from us. We shall take the same stance on paragraph 4 where case E(1) of Article 17 of the Code on Tax Procedure is amended in order to widen the possibility for central and general government entities to request and obtain confidential information and information on taxpayers if they state that they are necessary to exercise their powers. This is a bit general and unclear. We are asking for other ways to be found to result in more democratic and transparent procedures. In our opinion, at least two people are required to export sensitive data, because illegal acts of this nature are being implemented, when a relative or friend has the person responsible for such a position, which can draw information on others. Or it is well known that some private policemen gather information by financing some bodies that have been designated to obtain this information. We are positive in Article 7 for exemption from business VAT in respect of edible products which have no consideration for the feeding of pupils. We call for the extension of all vulnerable groups. We are also positive about the provision by which farmers selling their products through third parties, namely traders or agricultural cooperatives, will be obliged to pay VAT on sales of agricultural products for which a monthly clearance is issued. For cases where liquidation is issued beyond the month, it shall be the person liable for payment of VAT, i.e. the trader or the cooperative or any person involved at this stage. We oppose Article 10, which deals with the operation of the supergovernment, in which for ninety years you have included the entire public property. With regard to Article 22, which grants immunity to members of the Supreme Court's supervisory board, I wonder if anyone is doing their job legally, what is the role of such protection? We're positive to Articles 23, 24, 25. In Article 26 we shall state'representations'. In Articles 27 ‘yes’ and 28 ‘yes’. We shall vote on the whole. I have received in my hands an amendment concerning the realisation of buildings of the former EBA-ESA military court to the Attica region. We're in agreement. It concerns buildings with numbers 5, 6, 7 and 8 of the former military court of EBA - ESR, located in the Freedom Park, and these have been characterised historically preserved monuments with decisions under number 6561/1121/43-1997. In any case, in order not to say things inconsistently, this is a monumental place against us, it is a symbol of anti-digit resistance by all the Greek people and these buildings must be preserved. We will support it. These buildings, of course, tend to be dissolved, need extensive building work to be maintained. We agree on any maintenance and maintenance effort. I will go to some amendments which have come to our hands days ago. There is the amendment under number 1045/165/31-5-2017, which relates to Article 21 of the bill. It defines the framework for the operation of children's playgrounds in public spaces and includes photographic references to the Centre for Culture Stavros Niarchos Foundation. It makes us some special impression because there's such a special photographic reference at Stavros Niarchos Foundation, what's different from the rest. We are going to say 'the present' here. There is another amendment to which I should like to refer. Refers to Article 30 of the draft law and is to amend Article 62 of Law No 4172/2013. It attempts to regulate the issue of the withholding tax exemption for technical services, administrative fees, fees for consultancy services and similar services paid to legal persons and legal entities with fiscal residence in a Member State — a Member State of the European Union or a country which is a party to the Agreement, which are active in Greece through their permanent situation following a preliminary investigation by the European Union and relevant decisions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. The amended provision in Article 62(2) of Law No 4172/2013 provided that legal persons and legal entities having their tax residence in Greece and receiving fees for the services referred to in paragraph (d) of paragraph 1 were not subject to tax retention. We are addressing the amendment positively, as it comes to align Greek legislation with WEU case law and Community law. So we say 'yes'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-three students and apprentices and twelve educational attendants from the 1st Corinth Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] New Democracy MP Ioannis Kefaloyannis asks for permission from a short-day absence abroad in order to speak to London School of Economics and participate in a round table discussion at the Konrad Adenauer Foundation in Lisbon. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u63	The House therefore approved the requested permission. We move on to the party's special speaker, Potami, Mr. Amyra. Mr. Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, last week we heard the Minister of Finance, Mr Eukleidis Tsakalotos, in a forum in Frankfurt expressing his discomfort, because, as he said, he feels like the coach who constantly sees the beams moving. In practice, however, it is the lenders who are unmovable. They ask for their money back and demand that what is signed be applied. And, unfortunately, the government has signed a lot in two and a half years. Reading the Minutes of the Eurogroup of 22 May, we noted that the hard line of Siomple stems from a signature by Mr Tsakalotou. The German Minister of Finance invoked the unanimous decision of an older Eurogroup of 2016, where Greece agreed to set the medium-term debt measures after the completion of the third memorandum, i.e. mid-2018. This was signed last year by Mr. Tsakalotos, and this is what Mr. Shoeble claims. But does the government itself mind the beams? What's our goal? A few months ago, it was an agreement without measures. "Neither a euro new austerity measures," the Prime Minister told us. When it became known that the government agreed to measures of EUR 5 billion, Maximus set the following new national objective: 'A deal with debt, otherwise we do nothing', he said. In the fourth memorandum adopted just two weeks ago by Members of the SYRIZA - ANEL, there was no such clause that measures will only be implemented if they are accompanied by an overall debt arrangement. So we went to the next national target, which was quantitative relaxation. 'We have taken the measures, the Europeans must join us in the European Central Bank's programme. I'm reading statements from the government's staff. But that was also quickly forgotten. Next objective: "A clean deal to get out on the market". The Prime Minister told us last week. The exit on the markets, of course, is not won with wishes, but with confidence, with reforms, with the creation of a stable tax environment for those who want to invest in any country, let alone Greece, which is in the last line, unfortunately, of the economies of the euro area. And I'm telling you this because I remind you it's the only country with a recession in 2016 and more than half a unit in 2017. We have heard the last target from Mr. Tsipras. He may not wear a tie for the debt, he told us, but he does not want to wear a phase on the citizens. Of course, if we are to talk about this year, let us say that Mr. Tsipras has worn it to the citizens and his first Memorandum, the third in turn, and his second memorandum, the fourth in turn. As for the loss of the resources of the healthy economy, Mr Stournaras, the central banker, placed this loss at EUR 86 billion. Loss of the national economy, its resources, its capabilities. So the problem with this government is that it does not have a national plan. From tearing the memorials within two and a half years he signed two memorials. From the debt haircut, he went to "solving to be whatever it is". Since the end of austerity, it has voted for new austerity measures and even unnecessary measures. From the tax evasion hunt that would bring us 1 billion euros a year, with statements by the Prime Minister and the first-class ministers, we have been seized by the microprocessor's deposits of 500 euros. From 'no house in the hands of a banker' we arrived at online auctions. In other words, the government is brought in and behaves according to the moves of the moment. However, no one can monitor this situation, let alone the unemployed, who see unemployment down to 23.5%, when in the rest of the Eurozone the decline in unemployment rates is impressive. They are not pleased to see this situation when the workers of EUR 500 who will lose a month's time after the tax awaiting them after the tax reduction. Pensioners will lose two to four pensions a year. So the negotiation of 'all or nothing' came to nothing. In the Eurogroup which comes to us on 15 June, all we are waiting for is the approval of the EUR 7 billion dose, with nothing more. Greece, however, does not deserve to be in the situation that we all see today. We cannot always be Europe's Euro peans, to be the measure to avoid. Greece seems to be tired, delivered to the misery of the government, while it needs a shock of creativity and new production. Is there a way to success? There is. I listened with excitement yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, to Yiannis Antetokounbo speaking to the relatives of New York and to tell his own story, how he managed by a child in the alas to reach the NBA, to be a serious, great athlete, great professional, NBA star. So Yannis, with the two "n" and not one "n", when asked, said: "We are on the ground to be the best model for the future of our country. Greece is not finished. We must not give up, but support younger generations." Antetokounbo, Yannis with the two "n", made it, because he had brains, aimed, had proper guidance and worked hard. I fear, however, that this example has not taken it very seriously, has not studied it, even experientially, by this government. There is no programme, there is no national planning, there is no consciousness of the time that leaves and creates traps and gaps in the real economy. So Mr. Tsakalotos may say that he constantly sees the beams moving, but I fear that basketball would not do better because he has a torque to Yiannis with a "n" rather than Yiannis with the two "n". Ladies and gentlemen, I now come to the draft law, and I will be very brief, because we have said so many times, we have overcomposed it in committee too. Although we disagree with the urgency procedure and with the incorporation of useless provisions into the body of the bill - I would remind you that ratification is six articles, the other twenty-three of this draft law are different provisions, they have nothing to do with the contents of the ratification - we, as responsible Anti-Population, are not hesitant to say that there are positive articles, there are positive provisions in the draft law, which we shall vote in favour of. Of course, we will be voting in favour of the first six articles on adaptation, as I have said. We are positive about voting in favour of a number of other articles, Articles 9, 14, 15, 17, 18 and 19, and we are opposed to some other articles in the bill. Article 12 has been withdrawn, so I do not have to put myself on the table. However, we also object to Articles 7, 10, 11, 13 and 16. I would like to say a few words about the amendments. We support the amendment to grant the buildings used by EBA in the region. These buildings are sitting now and they are devastated. I will simply ask, as I did in committee, about the concessions of buildings and buildings to the municipalities, if there is a timetable, a plan, some criteria, whether a memorandum of cooperation between the Greek Government and some municipalities will be signed. That would be a good thing to know, Minister, because the purpose is not to leave a public property or a building abandoned by the state's arms to go to remain abandoned in the arms of local government. I would now like to talk to you about Amendment No 1045 and special number 165 concerning the operation of children's playgrounds in public areas and the Centre for Culture of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. It is little what a side and perhaps without meaning the House should legislate on a playground, on the technical specifications of a playground. We must therefore overcome some old centralisation syndrome and let public administration work otherwise. With regard to the amendment, number 1047 and specific number 167, extending the time limit for voluntary disclosure of taxables in the past, for which the Minister earlier, two hours ago, made a first clarification, we perhaps want more information, Minister, why a new extension should be granted. You told us that you were giving a new extension, but I did not understand or hear well what is the justification for this new extension. Did they not respond to the first deadlines, did those who wanted to disclose some taxable material and then changed their minds and did they not present it? Give us some evidence about this. Ladies and gentlemen, we are positive about the bill. In the other articles that I told you we have our objections, I will wait for the Minister to listen to me. I return to the general picture and the reflection that I have put with the beginning of my speech, to say that with a job, with a vision, with a national plan, there are hopes that the country will become a normal European country, there are hopes that we will reach Cyprus and Ireland, which have entered the memoranda after us and left before us. I am afraid, however, that without real political consensus and without understanding, dialogue between all healthy political forces among themselves, this country will find it difficult to get out of the open, especially with such political leadership and direction of the country as regards the government, which has proved to be very unworthy and below the circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr. Amyras. And after the special speakers have been completed, we enter the Members' speeches. Mr. Gas, SYRIZA Deputy Dodecanese, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u66	Thank you very much, Mr President. Today's government initiative and its legislative completion, through the process of rendering the Rhodian Palace to the Municipality of Rhodes, which is provided for in Article 25 of the draft law and which finds the absolute acceptance of all the aspects of the Greek Parliament, is a request for decades, unfortunately not to be found to date. I would say that it is, at last, a vindication for the dodecanese people and, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, a fulfilment of the state's obligation towards the Dodecanese. And that, because behind what we now call public real estate in Dodecanese, there is a historical truth that has not emerged as much as it should have been. It is a historic truth that, in any case, it substantiates that the public real estate in Dodecanese has a peculiar status in relation to the rest of the public real estate in the rest of the country, a status of specialist, national, I would say, weight, which should never escape the state's attention. As an indication of this regime and as a debt of honour to all generations of the Dodecanese, which have kept the Greeks, not only in the years of Ottoman slavery, but also since 1912, in the Italian slavery, until the Integration, I feel obliged to submit, at least briefly, facts and facts which are recorded and documented on official pages of history, to the archives of the Greek Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to its circulars and reports of the Greek Consulate of Rhodes in the official minutes of the Paris Peace Treaty of 1947, documents of the representatives of the then Fascist State of Italy, in historical books, writings and scientific studies. For the small islands of the Dodecanese, that is, the islands of Rhodes and Kos, which are known as "non-satellite" in the Ottoman period, that is, the ones that were subjected to the Ottomans without warfare, after the bloody conquests of Rhodes and Kos, the justice of our country solved the issue. In fact, the caselaw of the Ice Bay has been consistently recognised, as has, of course, previously been the case with the Cyclades, that there is no public property in these smaller islands as a continuation of the Italians and those as a follow-up to the Ottomans. This is because, according to the policy of the Gate, the Ottoman empire on these smaller islands, as non-violent, has been restricted to heavy taxation and has never acquired public land. The regime, however, was not the same for the two major islands of the Dodecanese, Rhodes and Kos, but also for areas of Leros such as Lakki and Xirokambos. These islands gather the real estate of the public in the Dodecanese, that is, the one that Greece succeeded in obtaining from Italy by the Paris Peace Treaty of 1947. This property is not the property that is guaranteed in the land registers, founded by the Italians in 1929 on these three islands, in favour of the so-called 'Italian acquisition of the Aegean', as the Dodecanese were called by the Italian conquerors. This real estate is so large that it corresponds, in a range, to Rhodes alone, to two thirds of the current real estate public property throughout the country. How, though, and in what ways was this giant public property created? First, in Rhodes and Kos, the Italians have already found several public lands from the Ottomans, as the policy of the Gate was to protect the property of the slaves - who were subjected to weapons - in these areas, they called satelliteers. However, the Italian conquerors did not content themselves with this property alone, after their expressed will - as the report itself confesssed to establish the land registers of the three islands of 1929 - was to increase the real estate of the fascist state and in this they proceeded methodically and systematically. At the beginning of 1924 with a forest law, Italian Decree 19/1924, they called abandoned and refreshed entire agricultural land to protect them from the Greek element that cultivated them. Subsequently, the administrative expropriation procedures were carried out with no substantial compensation on the one hand of the majestic and colonial policy - known as the policy of the stone - its large technical works and its impressive buildings, and on the other hand, the establishment of Italian agricultural settlements with Italian settlers, as well as huge military and infrastructures, with a more rapid example of the great basis they set up in Leros in order to control the whole of the Eastern Mediterranean. These events are therefore recorded in the archives of the Greek Ministry of Foreign Affairs with circulars. And the repeated reports of the Greek Consulate of Rhodes on Italian sovereignty were also the decisive element that Italians could not haunt. And so it was rejected by the international forces that they should receive compensation for the property which they left in the Dodecanese in the successor Greek state, according to the minutes of the proceedings and the conditions of the Paris Treaty on 10-02-1947, Annex 12, Legislative Decree 423/1947. And it may, of course, have been possible under article 8 of Law 510/1947 to maintain the real estate registers of the Italians on these three islands, but the Greek State from the beginning recognised that this property in the way it was created and then found in its hands had to be granted a special institutional status, such that it was in fact in line with the principles of a rule of law, which respects its history. Thus for decades the property had a distinct institutional entity and function in relation to the rest of the government's real estate in our country. In the early years of the release of the Dodecanese administration was the general commander of Dodecanese by Decree-Law 218/1947 and Royal Decree-Law 9/15-1947. In 1952, however, an independent body was set up under Law 2100, the Organization of Real Estate in Dodecanese, based in Rhodes, with a council of representatives of local authorities and bodies and with a statutory purpose all resources allocated exclusively to social programmes and projects for the Dodecanese. Since 1955, in addition to the above-mentioned body, the Prefect of Dodecanese had the same authority as that of the Prefect of Dodecanese as it was conferred on him for the public property the same powers as the Director-General of Dodecanese, Art. 27 of Law 3200/1955. The junta, however, in 1973 abolished the Treasury Property Organization in Dodecanese by Decree-Law No 195/1973 and without any other provision it combined the public real estate in the Dodecanese with all the property of the rest of the country under the central government of the Ministry of Finance. However, with the post-wartion of 1975 the Government of Karamanlis with the same law, which founded the real estate company of the State, with Law 973/1979, maintained the centralised way of managing public property in the Dodecanese, but also made a partially effective restoration. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. In other words, it has not brought the administration back to a local authority or body. On the other hand, at least 75% of the resources from the revenues of this property will be allocated exclusively to the Dodecanese through the Dodecanese Prefecture. Sadly, however, this has again been abolished by the first Memorandum of Understanding and so now 75% of the revenues are no longer available to the Dodecanese under Article 23 of Law 3965/2011. So, Rhodes, Kos and Leros, essentially the Dodecanese, that is, once again after the Ottomans, the Italians and the junta, lost a patronage property and its benefits. After all this, I think that not only legally and historically, but perhaps most of all, as a moral debt of honor to the generations of the slaved Dodecanese, it is clear that the Greek state must even slowly accept that the administration and management of the dodecanese property on these three islands must be absolutely distinct and always for the benefit of the Dodecanese. That is why the rendering of the PDR court in the Municipality of Rhodes, which had established for decades social and cultural structures there, conceals a profound symbolism and is a promise of honor and a claim for the future. It is a state's debt that the administration and management of our islands' property should return to a local body, according to constitutional principles not only of islands but also of their decentralised state structure. Thank you very much, Mr President, and for the time you have given me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, too. The wish is to make use of the service by local government. We shall proceed with the next Member of the European Parliament, Mr Stavoura. Mr Stavura, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, once again on today's government, we are in the same work as spectators: a summary of draft laws, drawing up provisions without consistency, without consistency, new prerequisites for the completion of a multi-faceted assessment, and that is why the assessment, unfortunately, has not yet been completed, since the government has not implemented a series of prerequisites, which are included in its last agreement with creditors. It is an agreement that none of us have seen as a whole, as it had not seen last year's agreement in May 2016, since despite the continual nuisances and in writing of Officerial opposition, last year's agreement was never submitted to the Greek Parliament but one can find it on the European Commission's site. We are, however, aware of parts of this agreement, as was the recent multi-brand plan by voting for new austerity measures amounting to EUR 4.9 billion for 2018 and, of course, with provisions of the draft law, which we are debating today. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is constantly retreating and trapped in its signatures. It accepted, despite its so-called heroic negotiations, new austerity measures even after the end of the third memorandum by signing the fourth memorandum. It accepted, despite its opposite commitments, high primary surpluses, as we know today, 3.5% of GDP over five years encroaching on the country in a long-term austerity. And it remains locked in the decisions of the Eurogroup of May 2016, which it has signed, furthermore, that medium-term debt measures will be taken after the end of the programme, namely, in 2018, under two conditions: provided that the country is fully implementing its commitments and, more importantly, if this 2018 is necessary - from whom? - by the institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem of the sustainability of public debt remains crucial to the country's economy and course despite high primary surpluses from 2013 onwards every year and the improvement of the debt profile since 2012, which the government now concludes, within the last bill that it has tabled and voted for. It is thus shown that the fiscal balance and the relief measures of the Greek debt are a necessary condition to enhance its viability, but they are not in themselves and a suitable treaty, and that is because, at the same time, a high level of economic growth is required. So what has happened just over the last two and a half years and has the sustainability of the public debt been considerably burdened? Basically, according to the comparable sustainability studies from 2014 onwards - and I will present to the House with a table - the estimated medium-term growth rate of the Greek economy has decreased considerably. For example, GDP growth in 2022 was projected to be 1.9%. When was that anticipated? In June 2014. In June 2014, therefore, GDP for 2022 was projected to 1.9%. Today, in the respective reports, the figure is only 1%. This significantly revised downward assessment of the International Monetary Fund extends over the coming years up to 2060, cumulatively burdening the sustainability of the public debt. It is 50% below the estimated growth rate of the Greek economy until 2060 today in relation to this. In this regard, the Commission considers that the measures in question constituted State aid within the meaning of I'm filing the relevant table in the Minutes. [[At this point the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] One will tell me: 'But these are the institutions' assessments'. Now we're going to the government's assessments. This is confirmed by the same conclusion from the comparison of nominal GDP forecasts between the 2015-2018 medium-term fiscal strategy programme of the previous government and the current government's recent medium-term 2018-2021. Extreme shrinkage of the estimated economic growth rates. I also put this table, which is the assessment of the current government, not the institutions. [[At this point the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Therefore, in conclusion, any study that anyone can see, whatever assessment the SYRIZA and ANEL government will make with its actions and omissions it has burdened the Greek economy, has brought it back to recession and cannot convince it that it will be raised in a sustainable and sustainable way. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] So, ladies and gentlemen, what is the point from now on? Firstly, the completion of the evaluation. Already because of the long-term delay and the erroneous linkage of evaluation to debt, the economy has been deprived of resources until now, on the basis of the agreement, which has not been submitted to Parliament, in May 2016, so many resources should have come from the instalments of assessments to date and have not come -13.3 billion euros - resulting in the government having made extensive internal lending and a stop to payments to the private sector, drying the economy from liquidity, dragging the country into recession and jeopardising even this revised downward target for the development this year's 1.8%, from 2.7%, which it recently appreciated. Second condition: The implementation of structural changes, which will convince creditors that growth potential is returning, recorded in their 2014 reports. Structural reforms increase production, create conditions for a faster recovery of the economy and help destabilise public debt, creating space for lower primary surpluses. Thirdly, it is therefore necessary to launch an agreement on more realistic budgetary objectives. Achieving high primary surpluses and maintaining them for many years especially when a country has been facing a long-term recession and has returned to recession and high structural unemployment is not feasible and it is certainly undevelopmental. Fourthly and lastly: the implementation by creditors as soon as possible of substantial interventions to enhance the sustainability of the public debt, a commitment that has been pending since 2012 and has not been under their responsibility - with the responsibility of lenders - is still being implemented. Realistic techniques. Equivalent solutions exist. Since May 2016, the New Democracy has identified them in writing. He's testifying them. In and out of the country. In conclusion: Combining these four initiatives at the same time can lead the country gradually to an exit from the crisis. Their achievement, however, requires a reformist serious, coherent, credible government, which will carry out structural changes and negotiate another fiscal policy, with more realistic budgetary objectives. This is what the current government neither knows nor wants to implement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, we must make an agreement now. I will give the floor, because he has asked him, as he has the right of every two Members to speak, a Member of Parliament, Mr Rabbit, who I will call in a moment to the party. Madam Minister, I have learned that you want to speak at the end. Parliamentary representatives, however, make sense to say that they cannot take the floor if they do not listen to the Minister, either because you will be tabling legislative improvements or some change may be made. So, I would like to ask you, after Mr. Rabbit, who will speak for twelve minutes, and after seeing the law-makers with your tranquility...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u70	You want me to testify now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u71	You can testify them to be distributed. Make your location so that...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u72	He can talk later, he has some MPs yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u73	It has, but I say it so that you can join alternately, every two Members of Parliament. Will you speak if you haven't heard of the Minister? That is the right thing to do in Parliament. Or, let them talk - I know - and two other MPs and talk to you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u74	I want to testify now to the legislators.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u75	These, yes, testify. Make your statement now a minute, you don't need to read them and file them, to be photographed and distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u76	‘Adaptation of Greek legislation to the provisions of Directive (EU) 2015/2376 and other provisions’, legislative improvements. I want to refer to two, which I think are important. It is the withdrawal of paragraph 3 of Article 12 of the draft law. Paragraphs 4 and 5 shall be renumbered 3 and 4, respectively. In the explanatory note to Article 12 on page 14, the seventh subparagraph shall be deleted, by ‘with the proposed provision of paragraph 3... carried out through it’, in the eighth paragraph, number 4 shall be replaced by number 3 and in the ninth paragraph, number 5 shall be replaced by number 4. Also, because we do not want to raise issues by opposition colleagues, Article 16 of the draft law is deleted and the following articles of the draft law are renumbered accordingly. We are committed next to bring it back, after they have asked for further information.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u77	They'll be reinstated.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u78	In the explanatory statement, the recital in Article 16 shall be deleted in the same way and the figures in the recitals to the subsequent Articles shall be renumbered accordingly.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u79	Very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u80	The whole 16?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u81	All of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u82	It's all the time the Minister said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u83	In a subsequent bill, we'll...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u84	It will be distributed, Mr. Loverdos, and you will see it in writing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u85	All right, Minister, thank you. The Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Rabbit, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr President. A few days ago, we submitted to the Greek Parliament, as we have a duty to do, a question of parliamentary control and we were referring to the regime, which prevails in the prisons of Aluna and in a specific way that works, with a school director in the prisons of Aluna, who, at first, learned that he was around seven, eight years old - it was already in an irregular manner so much - but then we learned that in the end this man is around 20 years old. It's before 2000. So in the question I had tabled on behalf of the Golden Dawn, others dealt with and answered. And we'll see along the way because they've answered and dealt with all of them. There are others, in addition to the "THEMERICA OF THE CONSTITUTION", which, of course, does not say that these questions, which we have tabled, are false, simply stressing that the information given by the Golden Members is "... is extremely worrying to the extent that they appear very well informed among the insides...". It's from the "SECURITY OF CONTACTS" and please hold it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Lagos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Then, after a couple of days, there was a statement from the SYRIZA Press Office, in which nothing is again mentioned about the questions we have tabled and we are asking for answers, it simply says how it is possible for golden Members to table questions on such matters. This is SYRIZA's announcement and I submit it to the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Lagos, presents for the minutes the communication referred to above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The next day, the President of the Greek Parliament, Mr Voutsis, came out and dealt with this question again, saying that we - exactly what the SYRIZA Press Office says - are targeting this prison director named Damiano. I put this in the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Lagos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is therefore worth wondering how, for a question by a Member of Parliament in his parliamentary duties, he dealt with the whole part of SYRIZA's comrades, with official communications, with a statement by a specific professor at the Kokkino radio station, to which he answers nothing but a nazi, a fascists. In our questions, he is not answering at all. The question and answer are very simple. And we'll explain why. This gentleman - Peter Damianos is called - he has been principal in the prisons of the court for over seventeen years. It's before 2000. This man chooses alone who will be teachers in this school and how the writings of the students who want to study in HEI and TEI will be examined. So far there's no problem. Okay, the kids who are imprisoned to claim their right to pass, to teach the universities, to do what they can do. But where is the big issue for this gentleman? It lies in the fact that while there are special schools in other penitentiaries, such as Korydall, the terrorists of the Firearms, but also other terrorists, a little older than the age of eighteen, because they have pressed thirty, they are desperate to go to the specific penitentiary, with this gentleman. And the question we have put is whether this can be done and whether it is legal. So why are they leaving the special school and going to the school of Paul to give tests there? Is it because that particular system that works there perforated? Why is it that the writings are not considered by anyone but the particular gentleman and his group? Also, to stress something else, for the Greek people to learn. It's a lot of strange things, but the strangest thing is that a law was passed about two and a half years ago, which ensures the irreversibleness of this gentleman. I mean, Mr. Damianes is going to be in this particular position while man is well. He will be in the prisons of the court and will be the director. And you know why he's gonna be there as director? Because a photographic amendment that says that in order for someone else to claim this position, it should have a three-year pre-service in this penitentiary and in this particular post. But this is the case. The teachers that Damian choose, to go to this penitentiary, are recruited by annual contracts that are renewed. So no one has the right to claim this management position. This is all done with terrain and done in the dark. These are the questions which the Golden Dawn has raised and which no one dares to answer, but all the leading SYRIZA team, soon, ran out to make announcements, not saying that it is false all this, but saying that we are fascists and nazis. That's the answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u87	Mr. Rabbi, an interruption for ten seconds to announce a school.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u88	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty-eight students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st Primary School of Livadia. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Congressman George Kasapidis is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u90	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Go on, Mr. Rabbit.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u91	Thank you. In order not to think that we are not speaking with names, the names of the terrorists who have asked to participate in these tests that are specifically given for the year 2017 are Christos Tsakalos, Gregory Tsironis, Dimitris Hadjidakis, Vasilis Fatsis. We're talking about certain individuals of the Fire Nuclei who want to go there to give tests while they should be given them to the Corridal Penitentiary. Another question - and we need to know - is the contacts that this gentleman has with another notorious gentleman, Mr Lambrou. For those who don't remember, it's Mr. Lambrou who was accused by the then Minister of Justice, Mr. Panoussi, of having direct contact with terrorists inside the prison area, which was never disproved. Just as magically, after very few days, Mr. Panousis disappeared from the face of the earth. One night he's gone. I'm saying it, let's see if that's true or lying, because, rather, that's why SYRIZA has been terrified and he's trying to call all the collectives - he says - in favour of Mr. Damianos. And we're talking about certain elements. Also, it is no coincidence that the individual had taken his daughter to the particular penitentiary store. He sat there for two years, took a crazy molecule, taken by those who serve there, and then went to a school somewhere on an Ionian island. That's what we've asked to know. I still don't have an official answer as a Member. In fact, in the announcements made here by SYRIZA and the "FYROM OF THE STATUS", all these "democrats", all stress and tell the ministers I have addressed, that they should not respond to the Golden Dawn because they say so, they legalise the golden ones. They should probably not respond - and we know very important things about this case, which no one dares to get out. Also, in their communications, they say that we are targeting Mr Damianos. Since when has the parliamentary question of a political party, a Member of Parliament, been targeted? We didn't understand. So, if we ask to learn some things, are we targeting someone? And what's the targeting? The terrorists, are we targeting him? No, because they're buddies, and they're probably going through them from what we're learning. Are we targeting them at the ministry or the government? No, because he's a stem. I should also like to stress that this gentleman has been elected and is a regional advisor to Mrs Durou. And in all that is done, a few days ago, a sum of EUR 680,000 from the Attica region for these courtyards is coming out, without any file ever being filed anywhere, and they say that this money should be taken by these prisons, with inducement and with the appearance of Mr Damianos, for their energy upgrade. When these prisons are a 1960 building, from what we have learned, and when the intentions are ready to collapse, and there are no vehicles even for transport, are there not proper vehicles and security cameras, are 60,000 euros being given for energy upgrading? This all seems kind of weird to me. Others may seem to be clean things and there is nothing. We also see that it is not accidental that everyone is very advertised and involved in the work of this gentleman, Mr Damianos. They do not, however, deal with other teachers, who produce important work within prisons. In this particular penitentiary, there is the professor, the Director of Municipalities, Mr. Armenos, who - neither right is man, nor nationalistic views are and you can cross-check it - is doing his job. However, there is no advertising and this premiere that exists for Mr Damiano, for the 'early cow' which must not be touched, while - and we repeat - it is 17 years - it will continue to be with special laws - the manager in this penitentiary, because some have decided. We are now coming to some other important issues, because there are many things going on in the process. In this particular penitentiary he served a large part of his sentence so far, a accused and sentenced, to one extent, for a drug case, concerning a ship, Mr. Yannusakis. Mr Gannusakis went out and said - I repeat that all this was done in this penitentiary - that he was pressed by the Minister, Mr Kammenos, in order to give some testimonials, both to Mr Kammenos and the Government of SYRIZA - ANEL, in order to condemn a businessman. That's none of our business. Whoever is guilty, convicted, and whoever is innocent, is acquitted. However, it is a question of how Mr Kammenos had contacts with this prisoner. Was there a special cell that was Mr. Giannousakis on his own, and had some people granted him a cell phone to know the architects in order to get that contact? To ask: Is it true or lies that some night, while prisons and doors were closed, a particular prosecutor appeared, with an inducement and command of Mr Kammenos, and they entered the night - which is forbidden in accordance with the Penitentiary Code - to take a statement from Yannusakis, which would indict this businessman? Is that true or is that a lie? Is it true or is it a lie that Mr. Blessed Phytrakis, the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Justice, along with a gentleman, Paul Dulame, who was a sergeant and the Penitentiary of Aluna - who established a special post now, why are they pre-empting him for a replacement after Mr. Phytrakis, but have they given him a place for him to be also a supervisor in prisons - have they given the mandate to have a good time in prison for Jannusakis and get the mobile phones in order to have direct contact? Because Mr Giannousakis also says the same thing, and the information we have and the names and archbishops that we have at our disposal, which we are ready to give, at our request, to justice. So, I guess the study of the SYRIZA government, who were just listening to Alonian prisons, as soon as they heard of Damian and all that game in this penitentiary, was not random. And I would like the Greek people to understand - and I repeat - how it is possible for a simple question to be asked to the Greek Parliament by a Greek Member to reply to the SYRIZA Press Office - without saying anything - and the President of the Greek Parliament, without saying anything, simply talking about targeting - and the newspapers on SYRIZA. That's all we had to testify to.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u92	Finish, Mr. Rabbit.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u93	If all this is true, we will also ask for something else: since justice wants to deal with the case and because our information is good enough, let us lift the phone secrets of the gentlemen of the plantry. Dulami and Kammenos. Then he'll laugh a lot of people.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u94	It goes without saying that the names mentioned are the responsibility of the speaker and the House does not take responsibility for the names that have been heard and for what has been said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u95	That's self-evident.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u96	That's the way it always happens. Mr. Papatheodorou has the floor. But I don't see him in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u97	There's been a change.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u98	This is not where the change is written. Here I see the name 'Papatheodorou'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u99	Mr. Kegeroglu will be speaking.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u100	All right, I'll get out of here now. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] The country has a government that expresses two extreme policies at the same time. In a different, of course, time, but it is the same government. In 2015, we experienced his "no" policy in everything that was going from her ideas and the laughing negotiation, which she had decided to follow. This led to the third memorandum. Then, after her ideology of mutation, she followed the line of "yes" to everything. This led to the fourth Memorandum, the hard and painful measures that we saw the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group voted together in the previous period, as we say, without judging whether these are in the interest of the Greek people or not, judging only by the principle that governs this government, whether by 'no' to everything or 'yes' to maintain power. And he sees it going on. Ladies and gentlemen, Rule 12 of the Rules of Procedure has been passed on to the committees and, of course, Rule 16 is withdrawn today. In fact, this article has already been supported. And in the morning our Parliamentary spokesman spoke to raise the question of Article 12(3), he saw the reaction of some of SYRIZA's colleagues, who were, in any event, here because, as we can see, colleagues have been struggling. So we have a situation here that says what? "We are voting for what they bring us just to maintain the government majority and not to take the power of the evils." That's the script. That's one of the MPs we've seen before. By Minister, though? Mr. Kontonis came today and with his honesty he said: “Yes, this article is not a governmental will. My own opinion was not as agreed." And I'm looking for the bill to see if Mr. Contonis had signed. He had set wide - widely his signature! What are these things? Is that how they put their signatures in the negotiations? They put their signatures - it's not a question, it's categorically now - just to serve the principle, 'We want to be in power by 2019'. Ladies and gentlemen, with this tactic, however, the country is being loaded with extra weights and, of course, society continues to bleed. And it will continue to bleed as much as Mr. Tsipras' regularities have one dead end after another. There's no strategy, there's no line. In fact, we see that in the last few days there have been threats against the country since its own government. We won't, he says, get the dose, so we won't close the evaluation if things don't happen. But that's a threat to the country, it's a threat to the citizens! We have also reached this point, not to take it, not to sign it, even in the way it brought this assessment with painful measures, because the Greek people must also be blackmailed once again. No, gentlemen! A bill is coming today under the urgency procedure, which has not been justified. Things weren't justified. For us, it would suffice to state that some of them have deadlines and to tell us which deadline they have. It wasn't said. This draft law includes - except for the transposition of the directive - arrangements relating to major issues. That was also the undercover purpose, to go through these serious issues with the most concise possible parliamentary procedure. To come to some articles. Article 7 is a series of activities exempt from Value Added Tax. The general purpose is correct. From there on, however, there are unacceptable arrangements. For example, it is stated that ‘any legal person which is proven to have a charitable or social purpose may be exempted from VAT if they have....’, etc. That is unacceptable. The Greek State doesn't start now, it has a continuity. Mr President, also at the time of your own, was Law 2646/1998 valid, which says in Article 5? "The bodies wishing to pursue social and charitable work shall be certified by the Ministry of Labour..." - now Work, then Health - "through the procedure provided for in Article 5, involving the National Centre for Social Solidarity, Legal Persons of a non-profit-making nature". It is therefore unacceptable to regulate. It should be withdrawn and enter compulsory: ‘Legal non-profit-making legal persons certified in accordance with Article 5 of Law 2646/98’. In addition, this article does not include disabled persons’ laboratories. While, in other words, it mentions a number of actions, disabled workshops, shelters and other small workshops that create some things, objects for sale, will have VAT. That's how great their support from the government is! Article 9 refers to customs confiscations. The masonry process is totally unacceptable. By masonry, he says, the public will be informed, public opinion about the confiscated. No, gentlemen! Either the regional agency or the central agency, where it can be sent in various ways - even by post office if there is no fax - should be posted on the Internet, on the INTERNATIONAL or on a special website to be created for this purpose. Welding cannot be accepted. I am also referring to Article 10, which concerns the excess. Unfortunately, no explanations were given. Apart from wanting to give the excess, the unacceptable that has been created and carried over the national property - mobile and immoveable - to creditors, clean companies without any obligation to the state, to which companies, however, refer, to what property? What is the level of these tax burdens? Is there, at the same time, a discharge for those responsible for tax infringements? These are all questions. I should like to close by referring to two, three amendments. The amendment with a general number of 1048 for the examiners of candidate drivers and drivers is another extension, and the first one we gave was to look at a new system. We vote for it because it was our request to have the conditions. so we don't have to cancel the exams. However, the government, at least until the new extension, until 31 December, will have to have an arrangement. The other amendment, Amendment No 1053 concerning the tax exemption for farmers and restricting it to professional farmers, we will not vote for it because, apart from the fact that producers are also restricting it, farmers are not beneficiaries - especially small producers and farmers - and the farmers themselves are not included in the tax-free income from another source. This is the regulation, which has an opposing opinion from the General Accounting Office of the State. Finally, with regard to Amendment No 1054, the MEP should be ministerial if adopted by the Ministry, we agree. We're not against it. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u102	Mr. Saridis will now take the floor, calling him on the Stepma. Then there's Mr. Karras, Mrs. Vagonakis, and Mr. Loverdos will be inserted. Mr Koutsoukos and Mr Jellonis will then be spoken and Mr Dannelis will be inserted. Here, Mr Saridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u103	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteurs of the Democratic Integration and of the River have asked themselves - Mr Arvanitides and Mr Amyras, respectively - about the political inconsistency of the government. Ladies and gentlemen, why did you ask yourself? The explanation is very simple. They're alone, they're few and they know it. They know it because they tried, but they ate their faces in the summer of 2015. They are few, because they have a marginal majority of fifty-three. But they're alone, because they've chosen it themselves. And that's what they chose today, to be alone. After adopting the practice of urgent codification, the government then set out the method of denomination as extinguishers for any mistakes by mistake, recently, as we all remember, proceeded with the prerogative of sectarian provisions. Today - and that is why I asked for the floor in this Chamber - with Article 26 it attempts to satisfy the wishes of Evangelos Zapapas, interpreting a 1927 law, which reads: 'In the case of special cases or for obvious benefits, special agreements may be concluded'. Evangelos Zapas, as you all know, fought for Greece next to Marco Botsaris and when he was killed, continued to fight next to other heroes of the Revolution. After the war ended, he refused to receive the financial compensation for his services at home and went to Bucharest. That's where he's making money, making money, and with that money they became the first Olympic Games, with that money built the Zappeion. So this Greek desire is invoked by Article 26, in order to grant the Zappeion to the government. If you are so sure, ladies and gentlemen of the government, as you are attributes to us on page 26 of the explanatory statement, that the planned free concessions are further increasing the global glamor that surrounds it, then why you feel the need to offer HNVY exemption as a compensation for it and why you are talking about total costs of EUR 40,000. Correct me if I'm wrong, but isn't it 40,000 euros per Ministry a year? On the other hand, how much did he pay for the Zappeion? Ladies and gentlemen, I asked for the floor to make a special reference to Article 26, mainly because on 9 March 2016 the Ministry of Finance replied: "Beyond the above, there are no special provisions on the "Smiling of the Child"."This is a reply to a report from me about the possibility of exempting the "Smiling of the Child" from the traffic charges and HISPIA. So then I was explained by the government of the "first time on the left", the current government, that it could not do anything more than what the law defines, because the law itself prevents it from happening. Today, however, in Article 26, it puts, for the sake of its communication designs, on the same scale, the ENPIA and the operating costs of the Zappian. Gentlemen of the majority, I close my intervention, restoring my proposal to get rid of the traffic charges and HICPIA the "Smiling of the Child" and possibly other associations that keep the society up in what we live in. When you are clipping, unbundling, prerogativeing, interpreting the will of the heroes of 1821, invoking royal decrees to guarantee investment, you do not have the right to say that your law prevents you from exempting those who keep the society at its feet from HISA. This afternoon in the committee we will be talking about 'the houses of the child', we will call for the child's smile to come from the institutions. If you don't know what he's doing, let us know about the work of the "Smile of the Child" and then tell us your opinion of the answer that the Ministry of Finance gave me on March 9, 2016, which I am presenting in the Minutes of plenary. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Saridis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u104	Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. We have not escaped both the triumphant and the many amendments. I don't want to comment much. I want to stand in two, one positive and the other critical eye. In fact, for historical memory, I think that the amendment tabled by my fellow Members, concerning the establishments of the EBA, should be supported, so that they can be restored and operated for the purpose for which they have been designated. With a critical look, I shall refer to a second amendment from the Ministry of Justice. Mr Condonis has just come to us and said that it is an urgent case to regulate the issue of compensation for the operation of disciplinary boards and mediators on matters of insolvency law. Yes, it may be necessary. At noon, however, the Committee on Justice and Home Affairs meets to discuss the law of the Ministry of Justice. What's the need? Because today is being discussed in the urgency process? It could bring it to the committee at noon and we could discuss it with the normal procedure. I'll be suspicious, maybe even wicked. Is the aim of not losing one month of pay that those who are presidents and members of the primary and secondary committees of disciplinary boards will win? Well, no more such a situation, Mr President! Should Parliament be called upon to decide on urgent procedure for a month? For God's sake, do we have to take care of them all? The story will now be judged by the situation in which we arrived, because it seems that we want to take care of all the good ones in the world. I don't know these people who have been appointed, but I'm being disgraced, I'm being worried about, because the difference is a month old. The provision would certainly also be voted on by the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs and by the House. Was he supposed to come today? Hey, no! I will stop here because I am not allowed to express myself any more, because I will become very strong. So I'm going to the bill. The first six articles in the bill sound very useful. It is incorporating a directive which seeks to suppress tax evasion, tax evasion and tax fraud in cross-border transactions and, in particular, in intra-group invoices. I hear it's great, if you'd like. I say 'bravo, go ahead with Greece, comply'. But I am standing here to see the substance of the arrangements: and so I see that a month ago a conference of the Company for Tax Law had been held and many issues had been raised there, which we also know about, and in particular Macedonia is afflicted with them. Who was that? The question of the transfer of tax residence or residence - if you like - to our borders with Bulgaria. Indeed, a great deal of publicity had been given on this issue. What's that publicity? That between 2014 and mid-2016, the number of Greek enterprises established in the border region of Bulgaria doubled. I'm not talking about it, ladies and gentlemen. The official annual report from the office of economic and commercial affairs at our embassy in Sofia. I'm tabling it for the Minutes. [[At this point Mr Georgios-Dimitrios Karras presents for the minutes the above mentioned report, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So what's he telling us? It tells us that within two years the number has fallen and nine thousand have exceeded fifteen thousand Greek businesses. I do not claim that they are all active. There are also virtual, there are too many that work properly. So the Independent Public Revenue Authority announced and rushed in the last few days - and the Sunday newspapers wrote - that it was mobilised. He'll catch seventy-seven-speaking companies and check them out. May I give you information, Minister? Do you know - from the same official information - that the trade balance with Bulgaria is now negative by 300 to 400 million per year? You told us - the government, not you, of course - that GDP increased by 0.4% and that we should celebrate. It may have increased GDP, but it is not due to the government's efforts. This increase in GDP is solely due to the private sector, which, on the one hand, wants to function, but on the other, we take it off because I followed the process, the news and did not hear about targeted regulations of the Ministry of Finance that will stop the transfer of the seat of Greek companies. And you want me to be more specific? The day before yesterday he wrote a large newspaper - the first in circulation - that the same game began to play with agricultural products exported to Bulgaria and then come as imported into Greece or being channelled to other countries. We have therefore reached the point that we do not have the opportunity to protect the Greek economy and production. That's why I'm shouting right now. What should you do? Can I tell you what I think? First of all, the Treasury should have been placed on the subject, studied, not tell us that it is carrying out seventy checks and that it will impose sanctions. [[At this point, the Honourable Member's speech bell is ringing.]] I'll finish. Please, show some tolerance, Mr President. With this bill, there's something else going on. We say that we will put, where there are no documents, if it is with the simple system, 500 euros fine and 1000 euros, when it is with the transaction-by-transaction duplicate. So what do we say? We are therefore basically saying that there are no sanctions. And when there's a tax violation, it's very simple: I'm letting one company go bankrupt, have its difficulty and I'm creating another. Do you know that in Bulgaria I can set up a company within two days and do what I think is best for me? So I didn't see that. I am not saying that the European Union does not allow it, I say something else, Minister. I say that preventive measures should already have been taken, which have supported the economy of Northern Greece. And why? Because we are currently moving to EUR 300 million, about, a year in which we reduce the trade balance between Greece and Bulgaria. This is 0.15% to 0.20% of GDP. This means a few hundred jobs and a reduction in investment, because if I produce and win, I will create investments in Macedonia, for which I have not yet heard anything. In order not to get far, I am telling you this: all you could do is give some incentive to these areas. It is not enough for the NSRP to speak of borders. It is not enough for the OAED programmes for unemployment. You saw it. All the young people left and went abroad. We need special motives. Ask for an exception from the European Union. The prerequisites are met. I don't know if you or the Ministry of Economy and Development are in charge, but ask for an exception for regions in Macedonia. The environment is very difficult. I don't want to expand any further. It is not matters that I can talk about now. These are foreign policy issues. The last thing I want to point out by closing down is that you told us, dear friends of the government, that this bill does not prerequisites. But come on, he's got it! And who's got it? The arrangements for the state property company, the arrangements for the holding company that we clear from tax liability, because on the way we will relocate public property through them. Although Article 16 has been withdrawn to study, you must take into account something else: this article does not only have a tax dimension. We cannot say that the transfer of the property or transfer of the equipment from business to business is no good. If you want to motivate, that also Article 479 of the Civil Code, which carries a shit to the operator, for this reason: We may taxly exclude goodwill, but in the event of debts from an undertaking that is transferred - here we transfer a business, we transfer not only the equipment - and intangibles go together. When you have the seat of the company and the seat, the intangibles do not need to say "Karras", they may say "Papadopoulos". The intangibles, however, are still there. This creates a responsibility for the debts of the former and is transferred to the new one. Solve this topic too, if you want. Settle also Article 479 on the protection of the public interest, not on the protection, as you are trying, of those who will transfer businesses, do not have tax obligations. Solve these two and discuss it again, without protecting the pains. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u106	We proceed with Mrs. Evangelia Vagonakis, MP Chania of SYRIZA, and then Mr. Loverdos. Mrs Vagonakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law adapts Greek legislation to the provisions of another European directive. It concerns automatic exchange of information and is an important instrument to tackle cross-border tax fraud and tax evasion. This issue is dealt with in Articles 1 to 6 and is the first chapter. I shall confine myself to the second chapter on the provisions of the Ministry of Finance. In addition to the positive message emitted by Articles 23, 24 and 25 concerning the granting of public property to municipalities in order to meet the needs of local communities - which is a permanent position and an effort of the present government - I consider most of the provisions relating to the second chapter are in the right direction because they resolve problems facing citizens in contact with economic services, problems relating to professionals involved in them and some have to do with adapting to decisions by the European Courts. More specifically, it is important to me that Article 7, as far as paragraph 1 is concerned, and also paragraph 2. Paragraph 1 extends the category of goods the grant of which is exempted from the obligation to pay VAT. It is clear that this is the way to strengthen and support the participation of enterprises in the effort to limit the food crisis until it is a painful parentheses. Paragraph 2 calls for cooperative organisations, in which - given the delay in paying agricultural products to them - there are serious problems in their liquidity. Expecting legislation by the Ministry of Rural Development for the rapid payment of agricultural products by traders, this provision is an injection of relief for cooperatives that are traded on behalf of farmers and indirect support for farmers. Article 8 updates, adapts and simplifys the framework for confiscations for any criminal offence involving means of transport, containers and work machinery and provides for the extension of the possibility to be used by public services. The committee has made a number of colleagues a proposal to extend the services which can use this opportunity to meet their operational needs. This request remains and I continue to support it personally. Article 13 is clearly in a positive direction because paragraph 2 extends the suspension of a supplementary tax on agricultural parcels by two years. This provision is absolutely essential, since we are in the process of drawing up the forest maps, so that the citizens are given the time they need to carry out the necessary corrections. Paragraphs 3 and 4 facilitate the settlement of debts and the issue of a certificate of immovable property, with the obligation to pay the dividend tax in question. A certificate shall also be issued when a notarial act of acceptance of a legacy is drawn up, provided that the tax on the percentage of immovable property is paid. In particular, in the case of many heirs, this provision is expressly logical. Paragraph 5 also provides that in cases of transfer of an ENVIRONMENT certificate without the requirement to settle the debts or to have prior settlement of the outstanding debts, provided that the total amount of the principal and additional taxes due and the surcharges is paid by the notary or notary within three days following the cancellation of the contract. The same is true of Article 17, which abolishes the obligation to produce supporting documents and to issue a certificate of electricity for the properties of which a licence was issued before 1995. I know that several citizens have been afflicted by this earlier provision in the past. In the same positive direction, Article 18, which amends the provisions of beer legislation in order to allow beer to be tightened up with fermentation plants, provided that they do not use alcohol. In other words, wineries, distilleries, etc. are not allowed. but with other fermentation methods. Brewers with non-alcoholic beverages and bottled water may also be piled. This is in line with a constant request from the Greek market and the conditions are created to strengthen domestic production. In other words, our aim is to replace some of the imports with internal production. It is clear, with what I have said, that the draft law takes steps towards resolving mature demands that concern citizens and society and are in the right direction. I would like to make a few comments on the general political scene and on the rest of the things that have been said here at the end. I have noted - and I will say it as I understand it - that we are glad to hear from our colleagues in the Commit tee on Disarmament about the difficulties that the Greek Government currently has. And when did we not have any difficulties when we were in negotiation? I would point out, however, that the Greek Government is dealing with the negotiation, particularly with regard to debt. I would like to remind everyone that the Greek Government is negotiating for the benefit of the Greek people on a matter of national importance - and I stress it, of national importance - such as public debt. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. And it clashs with forces that want to turn Europe into a place of permanent austerity, using Greece as a experimental animal. And perhaps you're the'responsible' political forces, as the rapporteur of the New Democracy said, since you consider yourself responsible, should think more responsibly and less, I would say, micro-groups. Support the negotiation that the government is currently making on behalf of the Greek people, rather than permanent tripling. And let us not all shake together the branch on which we sit and mainly sit. I think that is a responsible attitude. The people are watching and understanding. And let's not rush. The battle is ahead and it's unequal. Fortunately, this time we're not alone. Fair is on our side. This proves almost all the publications in the international press, in contrast, with the domestic one, and support from different political forces at European level. Let us all think about it together, and I hope we do the same. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u108	The parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Alliance, Mr. Andreas Loverdos, is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u109	Thank you. Madam Secretary-General, ladies and gentlemen, the days following the defeat of the government in Eurogroup of 22 May may of course be a repetition of a thousand-dominated over two and a half years of work, a government that has been negotiating, which has been struggling for the people's interests and, finally, when the reality comes to disprove them, a new record is a new tale in depth to justify it. Indeed, this has happened too many times. Indeed, it's going to happen again. It's happening again. But there is one more thing. The Prime Minister, with fake pacifisms, put on the issues he put on the public debt. That's not how it happened. The Minister of Finance, Mr. Tsakalotos, likewise of humor and falsification, raised the issues that Greece raises about public debt. That's not how things came. The slaps fell off once more. But what, ladies and gentlemen, is this moment's peculiarity after two and a half years? That lies are over. First lies: we're going to tear the memoirs. They signed two and they're flirting with a third party with the IMF now. That's it. What was the second one? That they'll unilaterally delete the debt. Because the markets will rush to lend us and we will see if we want to! And the debt, as disgraceful and what they said, will end up unilaterally. It's over now, and that's all these days. Losses for the country two and a half years, by a government that has supposedly negotiated, losing two and a half years and not ruling the place. Because we are talking every day in the media and in the House about 'big' issues of so-called negotiation, but day-to-day problems go from evil to worse. Greece has become an ungulate state. Yes, in an ungulate state! What are the latest, though, of the events of Tsipras - Tsakalotou holding in their hands the fates of the Greek economy? To sum up, Thursday, two weeks ago in the House - I have neither information nor involved - and they seemed to try to encourage their SYRIZA and ANEL parliamentary group to vote for the measures with the so-called countermeasures that no Greek citizen believes, because something big and national is taking place. There is a need to regulate the public debt. Thursday, that's all. Does the majority of the House vote for what the Prime Minister has just voted on? Greece has made its obligations, now the ball is in the lenders' tent. What happened? Not even the evaluation is closed. Of course, for public debt, things go from bad to worse. That's Tuesday. On Thursday, in the House, the big words - false words, but - and on Tuesday, the answerers - were defeated. I said that at first, we have learned that, when something goes wrong with you - and nothing has gone well from what you have been saying for two and a half years - in view of vulnerability, you are beginning the fences. Appointments of the Prime Minister, Gardarrobic, from ties to festives. Sloppies, but something very serious. The Minister of Finance, his financial attendant, reiterates his hope. I say it again, hopefully. So says the Greek Minister of Finance, who supposedly negotiates a better deal on May 27th from Preveza. We are now going for the Eurogroup of 15 June in a defeat environment. No one knows what will be decided in particular, but on the left and right some say that they will not be able to accept our positions. There are turbulences, media conversations. The next day, the opposite. A mess of communication to get the game lost. At the same time, however, ladies and gentlemen, Dobrovski, Juncker and Belgian Finance Minister Johan Van Overtveld - this last one on June 1st, a few days ago - are saying opposite things to what the government says. The Belgian Minister of Finance, obviously a member of ECOFIN and obviously a member of Eurogroup, states that what happens to the debt will happen after the end of the programme after June 2018. Since yesterday, the International Monetary Fund, for which the government has been soaking in our relationship with the European Union, seems to agree. One is with the European Union, one is with the International Monetary Fund. One is with the IMF, the next day with the European Union. Unprecedented turmoil, at the cost of the country's negotiating potential. One wonders: If, in a few days' time, all these great words have been discredited for two and a half years in government and about three years in opposition of SYRIZA and ANEL, what are you going to do? What are you thinking about the next day, now that all lies seem to be over? It is no coincidence, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, that you have now discovered the need for national understanding. Now from the step of the Association of Greek Industries, two or three days ago, the Prime Minister addressed the opposition, asking for consultation on the issues of public debt. In this request from the Prime Minister, I would like for a while to stand, because, ladies and gentlemen, in previous years, until today's majority was taken over, I was not just here and I saw it. I was in the middle of the political scene and I lived. I lived in your words, the words 'or they or we', the words 'prostitutes', the words 'Pinochet' by the Prime Minister himself, Mr. Parliamentary Representatives of the SYRIZA, so as not to tell us that these were minors. It was said by the major of your Pinochet political area. That's the name of Mr. Papandreou. ‘Or we finish them’, later September 2015, ‘or end us.’ Because this may be a past, because that is how you always get away, to remind what the President of SYRIZA said here in Parliament twenty days ago. It called the Opposition of 'Media-Europe'. He didn't say 20 days ago, insulting us? Can it not be tolerated by his ministers to characterize the Gestapian opposition now that we're talking about? Am I wrong? I'm lying? Am I saying extravagant? That's right. So this man has the courage now, which is all over, now that everything has reached the end, to look to find not supporters of a national effort, but dictators of his political responsibility, to "refresh" his political responsibilities in order not to take them on his own. That's what he's asking. This is the contents of his request, because at the same time, at every opportunity, he does not stop poisoning Greek society, because that has left him - nothing else to do with the ungrateful state that has created rock for so many years and is now leading. So we say 'no' to these puppy methods of so-called understanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u110	Mr. Loverdo, excuse me for the interruption. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, twenty-five students and students and two teachers from the 1st Municipal School of Nea Artakis Evia. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] You can continue, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u111	Ladies and gentlemen, I have talked about an inalienable state, about Greece, SYRIZA and ANEL. I wanted to give some examples. Two of them concern this draft law. In Article 12(3) you have provided, ladies and gentlemen of the government, for the abolition of the confidentiality of professions in which it is carried out. I'm a lawyer. First of all, for this profession, you abolished the confidentiality, not knowing what the Greek legal order provides, the Code of Lawyers and the Code of Criminal Procedure. For all the professions that have been classified, you drew a line and said "we're abolishing it". Today, at the beginning of the meeting, I raised the matter and the State Secretary said 'we will abolish it'. Indeed, he did. The Minister for Justice came to this Chamber, the person responsible for this matter, to put forward legislative improvements, and I asked him: 'Mr. Minister, did you know that? Was it your initiative?' He said 'no', while signing the draft law, as Mr Kegeroglu said. It is not his responsibility, but obviously they did not inform him. They did not inform him of an initiative to enter into the draft law on today's agenda. I ask: Who is responsible for this provision under Article 12(3)? Who put it? The minister responsible didn't do it. That's what he said here. I say this to understand how Greece is being governed right now. It is an inseparable state, ladies and gentlemen, when, in two and a half years' time, three Ministers for Education have changed, and the latter appears to scan everything that has been done so far in the field of asylum, on the way in which universities are managed, where he thinks again and suggests that student groups should enter. It's an ungrateful state, when a woman is dying, fifty-seven years old, because she can't be accompanied to a suitable hospital and she dies there waiting. It is an inseparable state, when the majority Member of the majority of Makes Balaourras comes in - and of course - to bring rules here today, an amendment which, obviously, has been agreed with the government and we will support it - pass the EAT-ES building, the symbol of resistance against the junta, because he fears that this building has been passed to the superstate and obviously to defend it from the fund of a century that will own Greek property and manage it. Shame on you! When one asks what you did, you'll be marked by it. In other words, you voted for the transfer of the public property to a fund not under Greek administration for a hundred years. You are now coming with three provisions today to make changes to the way this fund operates, with Articles 10, 20 and 22, believing that it will be a Member of the Opposition to vote on it. The pension insurance is the most characteristic case that this state is not governed, ladies and gentlemen. I will conclude with one argument: a year ago in this same Chamber you said that pensions would be increased because there will be a dividend for retired people from growth. One year later, with the same celebrations, the same unconscious and unrecognized mood of excitement, good intention to vote everything, celebrating you voted 15 days ago. But one day, but the other, the symbolism that this state is no longer governed by you. Dissolve every day what's good in this country. That is why - and this is my last phrase - we say that the condition of any recovery, of any return to better days, is that you leave. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u112	We still have two colleagues to speak, Mr. Koutsoukos and Mr. Jelloney, and then Mr. Dannelis has asked for the floor. Because there are two other parliamentary representatives, I suppose soon after...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u113	I would also like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u114	Good. All right, I saw you, Mr. Papachristopoulos. Come on, Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor. Will you speak from there, Mr. Kutsuko?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u115	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u116	If you'd come all the way here, you'd have a foot exercise. That's medical advice.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u117	Thank you very much, Mr President. Be well! Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating a draft cigarillo bill, which has all of it: it has international obligations of the country by incorporating a directive and - in the ordinary practice of the government - it has various arrangements, the so-called 'we are voting and voting'. But what the bill characterizes is that this bill, without the government saying so, to be urgent, has prerequisites. We have called on the government with a written question, my own and Mr Kegeroglu, to present to us here in Parliament the technical agreement with the hundreds of forty prerequisites, to see what has been committed. Unfortunately, the government, again in normal practice, ignores the House. In any case, there are also the international instruments that tell us that you have one twenty-five more loose ends, Minister. Apparently there's a prelude to settle these loose ends. I would say that this is done in an environment of policy, which is in an outstanding one, which has emerged from your negotiating tactics, because on the one hand it was 'not 1 euro', and on the other hand, we voted 4,9 billion euros, with the so-called 'fourth Memorandum', and on the other, it was that we solve the debt so that you can convince the majority Members to vote. The result? And we voted for measures and the debt was not solved. Unfortunately, the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, did not lose the 2012 acquis, i.e. the 2012 Eurogroup decision, which said specifically that the debt is becoming sustainable, but lost its own "success" of May 2016, i.e. the 2016 Eurogroup decision. Now, she's begging to take something of it, that is, what the country had and lost it with her tactics and manipulations. That's the reality. In this context we are discussing this bill. Of course, it is prerequisite, ladies and gentlemen, for tax equilibrium. But where? In the case of state-owned enterprises which are part of the superstate, the management is free to take place there. Of course, it also has the discharge of the members of the Supervisory Board. Do you remember what was happening in this Chamber, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, when the previous government brought the discharge of the members of the Board of Directors? Now you're expanding it to the Supervisory Board too and it's not nose-opening! In fact, I do not see them, otherwise, Mr SYRIZA's dear colleagues being able to put themselves in this bill. The debate has, unfortunately, ended up being a monologue of Members of the Democratic Alliance. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that, with our presence here, we have highlighted the nature of the government's policy and the deadlocks that have entangled the country. Now, if we look at some of the individual provisions of the bill, this permanent tactic of the government is confirmed, its tactics 'vote and do not vote'. Mr Loverdos mentioned earlier in Article 12(3) and, I think, the proverbative phrase of Mr Kontonis, a man who signs this is not a government policy. But here's no sign, dear colleague, only Mr. Contonis. He's signing the entire government. Is it possible for half the government to sign an article and come here and say it is not a government policy? So, what's the matter? What Mr. Zachariadis said about the troika taking our hand and writing? Is that true? Anyway. Do you remember Mr Alexiadis here, in this Chamber, who told us why he would abolish the fines? Today, therefore, in the bill we are debating, Article 12 also, in paragraph 5, we are going back to the fines. That's right. We're coming back for those who don't cut evidence. But of course, we are not going back the right way. Do you remember that SYRIZA's own colleagues were celebrating here the tax on farmers, who identify it with the tax on employees? So look at Amendment 1053, which you will be voting on in a moment, because that is what is going on. The report from the General Accounting Office of the State says the State will have a loss of revenue. There will be no loss of revenue because you refer to the old arrangement. The previous vote by you has extended the exemption and now you are singing it, because you think that agricultural income, which will receive the discharge, does not account for a number of incomes, but for the agricultural activity of the farmer. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that this government is moving from one extreme to the other and the remaining ones at the end balances against the country does not make it very much, but it only reminds me - and I would like to say this once again in this Chamber and I had opposed it to Mr Alexiadis - that in the hands of this government, who have made political careers with the so-called 'listers', the deletion from the Lagard list, from the Borgians list, from the 50 thousand names which, with the opening of the PASOK government accounts, are officially in their hands. Why, what is the government doing? It gives from the constant prolongation of incentives, supposedly, the disclosure of incomes and, on the other hand, it discusses with the troika that this story must be finished at some point and that we should not give up again. In one minute, Mr President, I shall end with an amendment that I have tabled. The government has not yet responded to the amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill confers property on a number of municipalities: in Agrafia, Hersonissos, in the Municipality of Echalia, in the Municipality of Ithaca, in the Municipality of Nestos, in Spetses and in Rhodes. Welcoming to exploit local communities. I have therefore tabled an amendment, the amendment of a general number 1052 and a special 172, on 2 June, which proposes to the Government to accept that these properties which it grants the municipalities will also be the seventy-six acre seaside property, the camping of the wonderful beach of Kuruta, which is in the Municipality of Ilida now - the former municipality of Amaliada - and which, on the basis of the data and the attached topographics, which I have contributed, has been part of the municipality for forty years. I do not know what micropolitical interests are being played to prevent an old commitment from being made or what other interests may be served. I believe that the government must respond, because that is what belongs to the people and will not accept the people of the region to make this case of the Kuruta camps. I also call on the majority Members who have expressed themselves positively for this, as for the rest of the municipalities, to vote for and pressure the government to accept this amendment. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u118	Because you have given it all for Amendment 1053 and the Minister responsible, Mr Apostolos, is here, I give him the floor for five minutes to defend his amendment. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Democratic Alliance, you see that at this difficult moment in the process of completing the negotiations we are also bringing positive arrangements. Since I am going to focus in particular on an amendment concerning rural area, I would just like to remind you that a few days ago we were at this difficult time when we brought the VAT on rural areas from 24% to 13%, despite your own urges to complete the relevant procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u120	Who took it to 24%?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u121	Please. I heard you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u122	It's no good listening to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u123	Today, with the legislative initiative that we are bringing, we are even better at tax. Those who come and are involved in agriculture and livestock, whether pensioners or workers in cooperatives or workers with herpes- insured in the former GAAP or certain other categories of vulnerable groups in the countryside - and you know that these are thousands of people in the country - will not lose their tax already in 2016 if their agricultural income is less than the above categories based on 50% plus one. We are thus proving that we can improve the situation, even at the moment. In this arrangement add the exception for 2016, 2017 and 2018 of the supplementary ENPY. These are regulated by today's bill. Ladies and gentlemen, you should be aware that we are trying and constantly trying to improve and solve a great many problems to the benefit of farmers. There'll be more to follow. That is what we are doing for farmers. We're not just bringing prerequisites, like you said. We are mainly bringing significant improvements. Unfortunately, what you are interested in is how you undermine this effort by the government at an hour when your attitude shows that you are not willing to serve this need for national consensus.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr. Apostle. Mr. Michael Jéflés has the floor. Immediately after Mr Dannelis and, if he wishes, Mr Denkias. Mr. Dendia, would you like the floor immediately after Mr. Dannelly, or would you like to hear the Minister and take the floor afterwards?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u125	Mr President, I will speak after the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u126	So you and Mr. Maddash last. Mr. Jelloney, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'm really surprised. I am surprised that you have lost contact with the reality that is currently in the Greek region. You are now calling on the Stepping of the House to ensure that you are in favour of farmers, because you have - it says - the reduction of VAT from 24% to 13%. When, Minister, a year ago, when you increased VAT, we told you that you were criminalizing farmers, that, according to your own words, your policies were "flooring" for the agricultural sector, who did you hear then? You did it at 24%, you realized how criminal it is for the rural economy and you brought it back to 13%. Are you coming now and claiming here that Amendment No 1053 is favourable to farmers and that with this amendment the tax reduction for any farmer or farmer is not going to apply to any form of co-operative printing? Even what you have sold the farmers to tax on aid, that is to say, 'we will give you a tax'. Now you are shrinking the tax-free rate and it is also known to farmers that tax-free from EUR 8,600 goes to EUR 5,600. Do you know what that means? I can assure you that the farmers are already presenting the tax declarations at the moment, they have a direct perception of all these policies. On the other hand, we are talking here today, ladies and gentlemen, in the urgency procedure, about the harmonisation of a European directive. Why the emergency procedure? As previous speakers have said, I would say that within this bill there are hidden prerequisites for the completion of the second assessment. At least say it! The curtain has now fallen to see who you are. Ten days ago, in this House, you voted for the fourth memorandum, your second, burdening the Greek people with five and a half billion euros. You told the Greek people again that you had been misled for a long time - and you have now become aware - that there would be no financial costs and that there would be the countermeasures. On the other hand, to vote for it by the co-presidents, you said that it would bring growth and that the economy is ready to land at growth rates. First get the financial figures of 2014 and then come talk. You've turned the country back many years. You said we'd have debt regulation and get the most famous quantitative relaxation. We do not have a second assessment, nor do we have debt regulation measures. On the contrary, we have the absolute failure of an incompetent government to negotiate and defend the interests of the Greek people. The reality, unfortunately, for you, is tragic and the amateur experimentation of the coup d'état is extremely damaging to the country. In fact, in order for the fourth memorandum to be passed, we have heard extreme expressions from the Prime Minister, such as that it is so good for it to be true, that it is in danger of wearing a tie and more. We have heard from Mrs Ahtsioglou that we are persistently assured of an agreement with a zero budgetary result, both from Mr Spiritzis and Mr Kammenos, that we have listened enthusiastically to announcing the exit from the Memorandums. The result is to be once again in the same spectators work. Just every time the account of co-government is mutated, depending on the timing and pursuits it has and the measures it wants to pass. You once said "I don't pay, I don't pay" and you made a whole movement and even on tolls. If I'm not deceived, the head of this movement made him a Minister. Now see how fate is avenged: The head of "I don't pay" is Minister of Tax - bleeding, Deputy Minister of Finance. Northern Greece is currently experiencing a truly tragic event for the region, for its development and economy from the side of the SYRIZA-ANEL coexistence, with the creation of thirty-eight new tolls only in the Serres Prefecture, on the vertical centreline connecting the trans-European network, Berlin, Prague, Sofia, port of Thessaloniki. There are three tolls: to Promachona, to Strymonikos Serres and outside Thessaloniki. With regard to this trans-European axis that has been financed and integrated by PASOK governments with European funds, to unite Europe with the port of Thessaloniki, you are today coming to dramatically reduce its development offer by creating these tolls, since its use of IX and lorries will have a very high cost. It will reduce the geostrategic importance of this road axis, as well as of the port of Thessaloniki, since transiting vehicles will prefer cheaper choices than this axis. I would like here to stress what was the other option - as I said before - when the attempt was made to join the trans-European road network: Sofia - Filipoupolis - Istanbul. Today, with the tolls you impose, you make this axis not to be used by trucks and IX passengers and not to be competitive. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like to close even more the regional road network of Serres on a road to death - a subject on which I have repeatedly drawn attention to the relevant Minister of Transport, with questions and topical questions - Petritsi - Rodopolis - Doiran, which is the road to most fatal traffic accidents in the country. I would like to believe that at the end of the day the logic will prevail and you will not go ahead with the creation, particularly on this road, of these tolls. In conclusion, I would like to say that your illusions, the lack of new ideas, reformist attitudes and knowledge of the political process, both in the country and at European level, have now become a politically empty shirt and you are also dangerous for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u128	Mr. Danellis is called in Stepma. The Minister has asked for the floor, and he will then be taken by Mr Dannelly for her place and then two colleagues and the other parliamentary representatives are left.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u129	After only two colleagues left, I would say speak before the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u130	I, if I were them, would prefer to listen to the Minister and then speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u131	To speak, Mr President. It's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u132	Good. Mr. Danielle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as a matter of urgency, it has been urgent again from the outset. Our legislative everyday life is exhausted in these two words, in these two exceptional ways of legislating provided for in the Rules of Procedure, only when there is a serious need. There is no serious need for delays by the Ministries in relation to the timely incorporation of European directives into our national law, as is, of course, not a particular reason for refusing serious and in-depth dialogue. What do I mean? That today we are discussing a draft law unequivocally, since only six articles concern this European directive and the other twenty-three could also be described as a mini-tax bill. I have wondered several times about this here the Step on where the investor, businessman or any taxpayer on the Greek territory can find the provision that he is interested in. There is such gloomy and diffusion of tax arrangements within an incredible number of unrelated laws, which requires at best detective skills and, worst, powerful divining skills. We often talk about the need to rebuild our productive model. We are also talking about the need to create a pro-investing climate in order to escape the vicious cycle of credit and debt. I fear that we are just talking, but we are not doing anything in this direction. What do we do instead? We maintain a swan, a swan of legislation, with over two hundred fifty tax laws between 1975 and today. Only in the last three years can I count six or seven purely tax bills. At the same time, in the approximately two hundred and fifty years that the American Republic has suffered, our colleagues there have established only ten changes in their tax framework. This is why they are in the third place attracting foreign investment internationally and Greece in the eighty-sixteenth. Things are not better for us or for our common European home, where we are in the last place in the relative ranking, according to the latest data from EUROSTAT. And yet, the European Union's main country, which at this juncture needs most investment than any other country is, of course, Greece. In the first place, and not by accident - an old companion of ours in the adventure of the memorials, Ireland. But I won't expand. Let's stay ours. According to data from the Bank of Greece, foreign direct investment in 2016 amounted to only EUR 2,8 billion. They are, of course, increased in relation to the destructive 2015, that is, the year of the two elections, the referendum, the bank holiday and the strict capital control, but again extremely low for our needs. Overall, investment in Greece, not only foreign direct investment, as a percentage of GDP fell below 20% since 2010, but never recover. The reasons why these sad rates are recorded include, among other things, political instability, the difficulty of accessing funding, but above all, unstable tax legislation, daring pluralism and the resulting bureaucracy, as well as high tax rates. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not wait for anyone - not even our European partners - to get us out of this vicious circle of permanent borrowings, the steady low investment activity, the permanent charisma in the end of the Greek economy. Evidently, achieving a stable fiscal framework in the context of the fiscal crisis, which impose continuous adjustments according to the targets expected, but also, where appropriate, the results of the Greek economy, is difficult. But we must be honest. No one will think of our home and our needs. Our partners, having long lost their trust in our own will to change, are simply confined to how to get their money back. It's cynical, but that's the way it is. This means that they settle our home according to their own assessments and priorities and, of course, that it is fatal not to agree with our own ideas of the best way for us. They have a responsibility for this, but above all the responsibility lies with us, for our time-consuming reluctance to implement the reforms needed for the country. Noms like today prove that our usual clandestineness is still overtaken. It does not matter that today's bill introduces provisions which are in agreement with us, as our rapporteur, Mr Amyras, has already said from this point of view. Where we are unequivocally opposed is the great picture, which you are still ignoring. You seem to legislate day by day, day by day, with the logic that "we've made it today", without a plan, without a coherent vision, so without a serious recovery perspective. If this one comes with a percentage that will surpass the unit - because I see many celebrating for the Starfleet 0.5% of the first quarter of 2017, which is also fortunately the case, as I have seen before, Mr Samaras' government rejoice for similar percentages - it will be a matter of luck or an external juncture. Unfortunately, the country at random can hardly stand up to complex global economic reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr Dannelly, for the brief. We shall proceed with the two remaining members on the list. Mr Constantopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u135	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I wish to wish all the children involved in the pan-Hellenic exams a success. The beginning of the pan-Hellenic examinations means the completion of a painful, laboring effort of many years in the coils. It's a special moment for students and students. However, I would say that it is also for their families, who have supported their struggle, as well as for teachers. So I wish good strength and good results. Besides, pan-Hellenic tests are the first fight, it's not the last one. That's the message. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is taking place in a troubled international environment. The Greek media presents the situation in Qatar. We are watching with anguish how the isolation decided on by the Arab countries of the Gulf will evolve in one of the world's richest countries. At the same time, the statements by Christine Lagard on the IMF's attitude show once again the game of institutions towards our country, a game in which the role of evil is assumed by the institutional partners, when European partners and creditors, and when the International Monetary Fund. Now who the bad guys are? The European institutional partners. However, a feeling is created in common: Do they want Greece, our country, to come out of the crisis? Do the institutions want to get our country out of the crisis? This is a question that should be addressed to every Greek and Greek woman. What's the answer from the government? None. Because the Greek Government has no firm, structured and responsible opinion. He doesn't have a fixed negotiating line. Instead of making use of the 2012 Eurogroup debt decision, the government donated the European banks with 6 billion, with profits, that is, Greek bonds. The result today is that the government has come to beggars, demanding that: "give what you like." Only this is not a strategy or a serious proposal from our country. You allow, gentlemen of the government, creditors to treat our country at the meetings of the Eurogroup as a laboratory, as a poor relative. However, one solution. The assessment is still open and the internal government celebrates, of course, trying to pass the fourth memorandum which it signed softly, and externally asks for debt regulation, without any result, but no result, because there is no national strategy, no tactics on its part. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very afraid that we are in a permanent memorandum. The country is, of course, driven by the mistakes of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL for many years. It is two and a half years in power by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, the longest government in crisis, and no result. Unfortunately, instead of improving conditions in the real economy, they are getting worse because, while the earlier anti-immemorandum SYRIZA joined the strategy of so-called memorandums, it did not succeed in setting up a national programme of policies and actions with a timetable and objectives so that our country could come out of the deadlock of the crisis. Instead of building on a huge task of the PASOK governments in the past decades, the reforms that have taken place in education, health, local government, the labour market, you have preferred, gentlemen of the government, to go along with the dissolution of the country and a record of purely anodes - I would say - promises. You have promised, Minister, and gentlemen of the government, that the country should be rebuilt. You promised growth. What did you do? You have managed to bring a production decomposition with excessive taxation to farmers. You promised national sovereignty, but you planned a superstition for ninety-nine years and actually mortgaged the public property for ninety-nine years. Gentlemen of the government, you have to consider two and a half years of what you have done. The answer is one: You enjoyed the hope of the Greek people, the hope that you promised in January 2015 and September 2015, the dignity of the Greek people, the hope of the new generation. You both practically lost. With Brain Drain, the new generation left us for Europe. The aim and bet for all of us must be one: to turn these youths, the youth of knowledge, and again in Greece, to offer the country, because the country really needs people with knowledge, with force, with a will to achieve the goals of the country for the next day. Gentlemen of the government, today really dominates despair everywhere. Despair dominates, dominates decay. You are obliged to give the Greek citizen the smile again, to have Greek and Greek hope and optimism again. Ladies and gentlemen, the game of institutions needs a serious opponent, a national plan, a national understanding. As long as no one can consent to it and give our country the power to take bold steps forward, so our country will stay behind. It is time to propose consensus, wisdom, understanding, to get the country out of the crisis. The future of the country can no longer become a field of party controversy. The crisis must be a past for Greece. The crisis has an answer: growth. So let's all help. It takes national fellowship, collective responsibility, and not a lie. You said, Minister, that you will reduce tolls and that there will be a proportionate cost. What did you do today? You managed to load on the back of the Greek people, the Greek citizens, another thirty-eight tolls, another thirty-eight funds for the benefit of social policy that you propose. So let us take all our egos back and put forward the future of our homeland, the future of the new generation. So we owe it to our next generations, to our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u136	With Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou, the list of registered colleagues is closed. Then the Minister and the remaining parliamentary representatives will speak. The Minister will say which of the three parliamentary amendments will be accepted. Here, Mr. Papatheodorou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I think there is one question today, which has come back several times: why is there so little participation on the part of the government in the debate, but also on the concerns of the other parliamentary groups and, above all, anti-population? I think that the relationship between the government and the majority of the government is now of great interest. If it is the way you say it, that is, within this bill there are no prerequisites, then the question you should answer is: Why was there no consultation? Why do you bring it in with the emergency procedure? Because this is how all the bills come, with the excellent procedure, the question is what the policy you serve in this way of legislating is. The second - what we are seeing at least - is that you vote at acquired speed and in accordance with the urgency procedure, whether there is reason or not, whether there is a record or no record, everything and without any political aiming, no political explanation. What did the Prime Minister tell you a few days ago here in this Chamber? Vote on the unfavourable measures which burden the Greek people by 2021-2022, because with this sacrifice we will negotiate the debt settlement. When the government's negotiation failed in the previous Eurogroup, then a new account was invented: it doesn't matter, it's not the major debt. The measures have been passed, the Prime Minister says, so that the country can join quantitative relaxation. When the negative answer came from Mr. Draghi, he changed the account again in two days. New folding: The measures have been voted on and voted today what was missing not for the debt settlement nor for the quantitative relaxation, but for the country's exit into the markets. Today, with the urgency process, you continue without an objective, without a plan, to a complete confusion of strategy, having abandoned the demands for joining the QE and by supporting the unclear, that the country wants a clear way out of the market. You are playing successively with the International Monetary Fund, with Symble, without a political line, and finally the country has lost all places to date. But let us see what this bill has to do with either the closure of the evaluation or the great prerequisites, which you have not submitted to this House to date. The second chapter of the draft law gives rise to too many questions. You want to deliver clearly from tax burdens and unfinished property to be transferred to the excess, Article 10. So we ask you: is this provision, apart from the deletion of tax burdens, there is also a discharge for those responsible for tax infringements? For tax violations, not for burdens. You have been late two years to understand it and you are now coming to regulate the regulatory framework for fines for not issuing tax data for categories of companies that are not subject to VAT, in Article 12. Good work, but once again the risk of large tax evasion is visible, since someone who will not issue tax figures for 5,000 euros, for example, will pay a fine of EUR 500 for computer books or EUR 1,000 for bilinguals. Did you think that this is how it is rational to reduce tax evasion when someone has such a big profit expectation? Article 13 shall be suspended for 2016 until 2018 for agricultural parcels. Suspension is positive. Do you guarantee, however, that in future we will not find ourselves in the future before surprises, since everyone in this Chamber now knows the government's negotiable incapacity and failure, as has been demonstrated all this time? Whatever measures you vote for, the only role that this government has taken is the role of the spectator, the spectator of developments and the spectator of the negative effects on the Greek economy and the Greek society. Today we learn that the International Monetary Fund could participate in the Greek programme without funding and the debt debate will be postponed until later, after 2018, that is, what you rejected on 22 May, which the government rejected on 22 May. You know that in this negotiating framework, unfortunately, the debate on the country's accession to the quantitative relaxation also ends. What is the government and the Prime Minister doing before these developments? What's he doing? He chooses today to inform the SYRIZA Political Secretariat, in order to curb the internal-party dispute reactions of "53" or whatever you want to say to them. Greece's problem is that and Greece's problem has been the same since 2015. Greece's problem is called SYRIZA and ANEL, a government that has imprisoned the country in a lasting retreat, to a lasting undermine of its interests. That's the problem, and this problem has to end, so that the country can see better days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u138	Mr Catherine Papanatziou, State Secretary for Finance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by addressing a number of general issues which have been raised by colleagues in the Com mittee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. As far as Mr Stakoura is concerned, the debt was not created by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, we have received it from you, from the PASOK and New Democracy governments that you have mismanaged the country either separately or by co-management. You have shared forecasts for growth and surpluses, we are talking about real results, about real figures. Your argument is based only on predictions, i.e. fantasy and wishful desires. ELSTAT is coming and changing your expectations. At the moment, the government is struggling for a solution to the debt. We have made our part of the agreement, and the institutions have to hand over their part. Let us finally take a clear position in this negotiation, tell you what has to be done with the debt. As far as Mr Loverdos is concerned, you repeat Mr Loverdos all the time, I have liked the words 'government'. You probably like it like a slogan and you want to say it and listen to it. Or do you want historically to refer us to the Circa Army's 'Ungoverned States'? I don't know what your intention is. You once said another slogan, "Great Greece", but you have ruled for decades alternately or together with the New Democracy, and you handed us a huge debt and a country to a commissioner today. I shall refer to the bill. We are discussing and voting for the incorporation of the European Union directive on compulsory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation, as well as a number of other provisions contained in the second chapter of the draft law. The problem of cross-border tax fraud and tax evasion was gigantic in the years of globalisation. Tax evasion tools that were first only available to large multinational groups that could pay expensive tax advisor services have now become available to both small and medium-sized enterprises or professionals. This is particularly difficult for the work of the tax administration, as it obliges it to commit many taxes and powers in this direction. Addressing cross-border tax fraud and tax evasion is not a problem that we can deal with using only national legislation, not even the conclusion of bilateral agreements. It is an issue that needs to be addressed at European Union level and even wider. Indeed, in recent years European governments and institutions of the European Union have been mobilised, but also international organisations such as the OECD, in which tax information and so on are being exchanged. Our Government wants much more to be done and we claim them at European level. However, we often feel that the attitude of some European governments, some of our partners, is hypocritical. On the one hand, they support our efforts to combat tax evasion and often favour us and ask us to do more, and on the other hand they pursue fiscal competition policies, even policies that encourage tax fraud against other countries, in order to support their own businesses or their own public revenues. The examples are many, but let me not go specifically at the moment. The European directive that we are updating and incorporating today is in that direction. But it's not panacea, it's not enough. It is, however, an important step. There are issues relating to intra-group pricing, a basic tax evasion technique, and a central index is being organised at European level, so that the relevant information can be exchanged more correctly. The second part of the bill deals with a number of tax and other issues. With regard to Article 7, Mr Kegeroglu referred to sales to various public services, such as for food purposes, etc. In Article 7, we are not talking about selling goods exempted from VAT, as is the case for children of HEIs. We are talking about donations, only food donations to meet the needs of primary and secondary pupils and to strengthen the participation of enterprises in the effort to limit the food crisis. The VAT code is also amended in a way that facilitates farmers, who move their products through others, whether they are traders or cooperatives - as I have said in committee - so that VAT can be cleared more quickly for the benefit of farmers. The arrangements laid down in Article 8 shall be updated and simplified in order to limit their storage costs and their loss of value. Here we have a few issues. We referred to masonry. It's about small regional customs offices. The interconnection requires an electronic application. Once it's ready, all the customs in the country will use it. It is not about connection to the Internet, which has been heard by some of the Vice-Presidents. No electronic application at present. We haven't found any of you, Mr. Comrade of Antipopulation, electronic application. Now we're making the electronic application. All we do in this article is that we repeat and add the reference to Article 177, which we change. It's about the procedures of the IRS. It's not about the rest. Article 12 regulates a number of issues relating to the functioning of the ADI, such as the protection of taxpayers from a later interpretation cycle and the provision of information to the audit authorities. In addition, fines are set for the non-issuance or inaccurate issue or receipt of documents for transactions not charged with VAT such as doctors, nurses, private training centres, etc., as well as for the movement of goods without the existence of movement documents. It is worth mentioning fines and fines here. The fine of EUR 250 and 500, ladies and gentlemen of the Officerate, which seems to be too high for you, is the minimum fine per tax control, irrespective of the number of proofs that have not been issued. That is why we now have EUR 100, 500 or 1,000, depending on the type of infringement, in cases where there is no VAT. Article 13 regulates issues relating to property ownership such as the responsibility for bankruptcy, the suspension of the imposition of an additional tax on parcels for 2016, 2017 and 2018, as well as issues relating to the issue of a certificate of property belonging to a bank or when accepting a legacy. The aim of these provisions is to facilitate trade to the benefit of both the taxpayer and the tax administration. Article 16 harmonises earlier legislation with the legislation in force in an attempt to dismantle the courts. However, since we have seen that there are issues from the Civic Opposition, but also from the rest of the Opposition, we are withdrawing this article, which we will bring to a next order, taking into account the comments made, because we do not want to leave any wrong interpretation that exists by our colleagues in the Opposition. Article 17 also solves a problem of conflicting legislation on the certification of real estate in order to apply to immovable property licensed until the end of 1994, as is the case for those who acquired it from 1995 onwards. The old ban on brewing and collecting brewers with fermentation beverage plants - such as cider, which is the most famous of fermentation drinks - and non-alcoholic and bottled water production plants, is removed by the regulation of Article 18. In this way, a consistent demand for the Greek market is being met and the conditions are being created for strengthening domestic production, mainly cider, but also other beverages, with expected significant positive results at the budgetary and social level, since these drinks are currently imported into our country. Our aim is for a large part of the imports to be replaced by internal production and in this way to enter the funds of the country, which would help Greece's economic policy, particularly in the modern fiscal context. Articles 23 to 25 provide public buildings which, due to their long-term use, are not maintained and are currently ready to be granted to the municipalities which have requested them in order to meet the imperative housing needs of different services. It is also examined by the Ministry and other cases for the granting of public property. It is this 'allocated public property that has gone to the superstate and we cannot do anything about it and we have to bring parliamentary amendments', as one colleague has said. Gentlemen of counterpopulation, it's not the public property in the superstition. The superstition doesn't manage the public property. It is precisely what the overseer manages, and we have said so at previous meetings. These are public property belonging to the Ministry of Finance and in order to use these and to maintain them in the difficult times, they are granted to the municipalities. The Municipality of Agraphs of the Prefecture of Evrytania is granted the ownership of a public property to cover the municipal housing needs and services. The municipality of Hersonissos in Heraklion is granted the ownership of a public property to cover housing needs of the municipality's services. The municipality of Ekalia, Messinia, is granted the ownership of a public property for the cultural purposes of the municipality. The municipality of Ithaca, Kefalonia, is granted the ownership of a public property for cultural purposes, for housing of the Odysseal Centre of the municipality. The municipality of Nestos, Kavala, is granted the ownership of a public property for cultural purposes, for housing a municipal library. The Ministry of Interior is granted the ownership of a public property to cover housing needs of the Pelion Police Department. Also, to cover housing needs of the children's Spetses station under the condition of housing and the multi-powered doctoral Spetses and with provision for the costs of the necessary work on the buildings from the municipality's budget, the ownership of public property is granted. In addition, Mr Gassis mentioned it very in detail and I do not need to repeat it again. With all these provisions, public property is granted to the municipalities. In reply to Mr Amyras' question, I would like to say what I have said in committee. All of this is granted to the municipalities upon request and with some study promoted in public property on how the municipalities will make use of these properties. From there on, the necessary actions are taken by the services and the proposal on whether it is necessary to return to the municipalities. On the other hand, there is the assurance and regulation of the public that if, within five years, the municipalities do not do the necessary actions or use them for the purpose for which they are granted, they return to the public. We think that this makes better use of public property and has the proportion that it belongs to and the use it needs. Article 26 proposes a regulation derogating from the provisions in force by decision of the Minister of Finance, with the agreement of the Management Board of the Olympian and Heritage Commission, to grant free of charge to services of the central government sub-sector of the General Government Registry of the Zappi Mongolia, and to areas of the Committee for the Organising with the expenditure of particular nationally important exhibitions, educational cultural and sport events, conferences, celebrations and other relevant events. They are not contrary to the legacy and will that has been left by the Zappas occupier. These free concessions may not exceed the total amount of EUR 40,000 per year. The generally unfavourable economic circumstances justify the derogation and the provision is fully in line with the objective of the institution. The proposed regulation results in a loss of revenue for the Committee on Olympics and Heritage. I would mention again, in order not to create impressions, that it is EUR 40,000 per year for all the ministries that we will use and not 40,000 for every ministry. Anyone who reads the law well gives this interpretation exactly. The loss to the Olympic and Heritage Committee we have as a compensation, as it is being introduced, for HIS discharge, which is around EUR 16 000 per annum. As far as the amendments are concerned, the amendment on the arrangements of L.2971/2001 establishes the right of hotel operators in general, recreational centres or seafaring clubs supervised by the General Secretariat of Sports for the direct rental of hostages to their business and public places in the Aegean Sea or the coast of which they request the use of part of the property of ETA. The proposed amendment achieves the enhancement of entrepreneurship and ensures the public interest through renting by the EBRD of its respective real estate section. Furthermore, the legal framework and the smooth and undisturbed functioning of enterprises that are adjacent to a cavalry, where the EBRD is provided for, as well as the way of any form to the benefit of the national tourism economy, shall be ensured.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u140	What amendment is this, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u141	I mentioned it before, Mr. President, just...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u142	No, you're fine. I just want to see her here in front of the vote after. What number did you say there was this amendment on the cavalry?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u143	General number 1051.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u144	Yeah, it's number 1051, I haven't noted it up. I don't have the painting with me, I only have the parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u145	All right, keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u146	With regard to Amendment No 1047 on VDI, because it has also been asked by a colleague from the Com mittee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, the extension until 30 September is mainly granted because it is a request from the tax authorities, due to the pressure on tax declarations, to be able, by completing tax declarations, to proceed with statements on the VDI. The results so far are satisfactory. We do not have the finals of 31 May to be announced and to be able to tell you today, but to the point where we had been satisfactorily. From there on and any extension of 30 September will bring revenue to the State. I move on to Amendment No 1053/173.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u147	Madam Minister, for what your colleagues have defended, you do not need to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u148	Mr President, because we have created an ambiguity from colleagues in anti-population, I have to give some explanations about this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u149	Good. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u150	In order to calculate the reduction of the main farmer's tax by means of the law that we have voted on, it is essential to have tax-free to 50% of income. In this case, the various incomes outside the agricultural incomes to be counted will not be the incomes insured in the OGA, so that I can just say it and understand it and any farmers who are watching us. In other words, the categories referred to in the article relate to what is relevant for an OGA insurance contribution. Both the members of the cooperatives and the hundred and fifty-day wages that are in the packing and the bachelor, as well as the pensioners of the OGA, have to do with the farmer's status, and these will not be counted as 50% of the income, which will be dissuasive to give the farmer the tax-free. In conclusion to the amendments tabled by Parliament, I will accept Amendment No 1055, and Mr Messrs Kohl's specialist, as well as Amendment No 175. Balaura, Maniu and Mitafidis for the granting by ownership of buildings of the former EBA-ESA military court to the Region of Attica. The other three Parliamentary amendments will at some point be considered and we will see whether we can accept them. The first is a report from the General Accounting Office of the State. For Mr Koutsoukos' second address for the concession of a property to the Municipality of Ilidas, this municipality should apply first to the public property and be examined from there on. The third is going to be seen at another time, not at this particular moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u151	Before giving the floor to the remaining parliamentary representatives, I give the floor to my colleague Mr Balaura for three minutes to present his amendment with number 1055. Mr Balaura, I would like clarification because my vote as a Member will depend too. You refer to four buildings, and then you talk about two, that is five and eight. For the six and seven, which I have the impression that they belong to the Municipality of Athens, you say nothing and take it and take it to the periphery. If that is the case, I would like to know if you have the agreement of the Municipality of Athens, because if that is not the case, I cannot vote for your amendment. Mr Balaura, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr President. This amendment is signed by me, by the Trinity Mitafidis and Nikos Manios, who are also members of the League of Prisoners and Exiled Persons of the dictatorship. It's really four buildings. The two have been granted to the TEC, the Association of Guardians by various decisions, to which I do not need to comment in detail. Now you find me totally unprepared - I have to say it - for the two other buildings. I have the...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u153	I know very well, because I have been mayor, that they are used for cultural purposes. You know, since you are a member of the CFEA, that the other two buildings are maintained by the Municipality of Athens and certainly does its events - and not only the CTEA - but other cultural events are also taking place. I don't understand why they have to leave and go to the district. Is that a request from the CSCE?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u154	S.H.I.E.E.L.E.L.D....
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u155	Unless you tell me that in recent years these buildings have not been maintained, so I'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u156	Look: These buildings - and you can catch up with me - want great maintenance. Money the link, the CSE does not have and cannot make available. I think it's understandable. It takes extensive construction work, maintenance, renovation, modernisation, to ensure their use for reasons - let me use this phrase - of deeper culture. Therefore, the transfer of these buildings to the region means that the region bears the costs of operating, renovating and all those things I mentioned earlier. I would like to add, Mr President, two things. One is that this place is all known to be a man of torture and testimony. There Mustaklis actually lost his life, there he tortured a multitude of dictatorship fighters, as did Alekos Panagulis. I also want to say one last sentence, that this move for me means something else. As we all know, and you know it, Mr President, that you have financed the mayor - there is a 'file' and every time there are tangible interests that want it. I think that the transfer of ownership of buildings to the region also ensures greater protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u157	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u158	For what, Mr. Loverde?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u159	About the Minister's speech under the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u160	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u161	Do you want me to wait, Mr. President? I can wait.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u162	Just a minute, Mr. Loverde. Your other colleagues who have not spoken, and then you have a second language, and then I would be happy to speak. But we must talk about the non-speaking parliamentary representatives. It is Mr Dendias, Mr Papachristopoulos - we are going with the parliamentary, of course, series - Mr Karathanasopoulos and I assume that Mr Mandas will be the last. As we finish early, there will be the possibility of a few minutes of dentistry, but after the prototypes have been completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u163	I am not going to answer that question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u164	You don't want to? Okay. Mr. Karathanasopoulos won't take the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, twenty-two students and students and two teachers attending teachers from the Chios Municipal School. The House welcomes them. Welcome to Athens and the House. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Teddy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will briefly address you for the individual provisions, because the position of the New Democracy has been analysed here with sufficient authority by our diligent rapporteur, Mr Vésiropoulos. I would just like to remind you that from the thirty articles of this legislation, only six are concerned with adapting Greek legislation to the provisions of Directive 2015/2376. The other articles cover several regulations, mainly the Ministry of Finance. I do not want to be tempted to read to you - because we, for the first six articles, have no basic counterpart, although I imagine it would give you some gratitude - what the majority rapporteur at the time said about the directive that this amendment constitutes. What he then dragged to the government, what was going on in the European Union. In fact, as his main objective and neoliberalism, I do not know where and how - and in any case, he was screaming, I would say, for the destruction that this directive brings to the workers of the European Union. Today, then, for us it is a peculiar satisfaction to hear the SYRIZA government come and suggest what it was about thirty months ago condemning with such intense words. What matters, beyond the six articles, is what we are not voting on today, and we are not voting on them, because the Minister - with certainty, I must say - withdrew them. First of all, I refer to Article 12(3), which concerned this peculiar extension of non-protection from professional secrecy. As far as I am concerned, the basic provision suffers. But, frankly, it is of great interest, Minister, to learn how this provision arrived in the legislature. Because the Minister for Justice was here, Mr. Loverdos asked, the Minister declared ignorance. Who thought this was needed and through what process in the Ministry? Why, obviously, are the provisions not written at night? It is an internal finger or an external pen, which, in full ignorance of our institutional framework and the constitutional framework of the country, comes and brings and land such provisions, which, if they are not seen by the Anti-Population, will become part of the country's afflicted law anyway. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] We would also be interested in Article 16, which you withdrew. And if you want to bring it back, in some other form, obviously, it would mean a debate in advance. Don't lead us here to suspicions, to charges, to high tons, etc. If it is something you would like and we could help, we always want to help entrepreneurship. So if it's a good thing, with every honesty I tell you to see it. But, not to hide, as many hide until now, ruffles and services that are in the shadow. I now come to the other issue, which has bothered me and relates to Article 22, the amendment of Article 192 of L.4389/2016. I am referring to the Overseas Supervisory Board. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all the words'supervisory board' give a impression of a body that is distanced from things and which is very relevant here, is not a case here. I would like to remind you that the supervisory board to a large extent - what is the excess, I remind you of those who do not know - is the fund under which almost all of the property of the Greek State is located - it defines the board of directors. He's choosing it. The supervisory board itself is no more than a consultative body, according to the three members of the Greek Government. Three in agreement with the institutions, as we have come to tell them, namely our lenders, and only the other two of our lenders. I mean, all five actually from our lenders. The Supervisory Board selects the Governing Council which manages the entire property of the State, on which the Minister of Finance simply delivers an opinion within a period of 10 days. And his opinion is unconscious, it is an opinion. The supervisory board, chosen by the lenders, therefore selects the board, which runs the entire property of the Greek State, the Greek people for nine nine years. So we come here and see a provision whereby the exemptions on the board of directors are already, in my opinion, completely extensive and probably unconstitutional, extended to the supervisory board as well. Honestly, if we look back, ladies and gentlemen, and I will do so, I will find the time to do so - the law of immunity that applied when the Americans had bases in Greece, in a state troubled by the country, then the Americans had these exemptions? Did the Americans then have the exemptions that the government of the "superior" negotiation today gives to those who govern the property of the Greek people? On what moral basis do these provisions appear here? Who asks, who accepts them and who shows them? Because national dignity cannot be gradually transformed into national subordinates. These provisions are provisions on subordinated country status. And I used you the example of the strong ally, who didn't ask for these things, when American aid depended on the survival of the Greek government at the time. What are these things? How do you bring them, how do you vote, and how do you account for the Greek society after that? I come to the debt issue, which is the topical issue of the days. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, no one will see that this is a very important issue, a top issue. But what we will see - and as it concerns me, I have said this repeatedly from this Step and it is in the Minutes since January 2015 constantly - is that you have chosen to propose it in the negotiation and to link it to the evaluation. It was quite obvious that Germany had no intention to discuss debt matters seriously before the German elections. I have a very clear memory of the conversation I had with Minister Siomple on this matter in August 2014 in Berlin. Can anyone explain to us by what logic the Greek Government has put the assessment of the debt issue hostage? What was your logic? Your logic, obviously, was that you had signs, assurances, impressions and tactics, which gave you the hope of a significant success. And for the first time you had loaded it all up to Mr Varoufakis, and in that sense the government may invoke a blank. But now who are you going to charge what seems to be a huge failure? What has led the country to raise the debt issue now, to negotiate with emphasis now and to defeat the debt issue now? What is it that led her to do that now? Who has assured that now is the time to resolve this matter? Because the one who has assured himself must also take responsibility, he must come here to the National Representation, whether he is the Prime Minister, whether he is the Minister of Finance, or whoever he is, explain how he thought, take responsibility for where we ended up. And for politicians, you know, there's a logical continuity in taking responsibility, it's not just a verbal process. As we all agree that it is extremely important, it should be explained to the National Representation what makes the Prime Minister of the country informing the SYRIZA bodies, from what I understand this weekend or somewhere in the next few days the Political Secretariat - I am not familiar with the SYRIZA bodies, forgive me for that - before the National Representation. What has led the country to change the order of things and the first and most competent body to which to be informed is not the one with responsibility, namely the representation of the Greek people, but are the institutions of SYRIZA? How are these things done and how do they combine with the government's demand that there be national consensus, that there be support, that there be an understanding, that there be a single position? We have a government here, that is to say, first of all, and then, when it is defeated, it seeks cooperation. At the same time, however, it is always called upon to do so on the basis of non-information, until the government has even given the most naive Greek citizen, not to say congressman, the possibility of trusting that government's operations, which leads the country from defeat to defeat, from a deadlock to failure, and has not even said so - I said so - that it is in favour of national dignity. Because she, too, has given her the need to survive politically. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all living in unprecedented times. We're living at a time when things have gone awkward. We are living in a crisis and within a dangerous international context. The speaker spoke earlier on on external issues and on the issue of disruption of relations in the Arab Gulf. The same applies, of course, to our northern borders. It has stopped anyone in our area. That is why there should be at least an honest agreement within this parliamentary procedure, that is to say, we should be able to say things by their name and somehow consult on the basis of things. SYRIZA and ANEL, as government partners, have deprived us of this possibility. The way they legislate is one way that cannot stand any criticism. I followed the whole debate today. There was no explanation why, for example, this piece of legislation - which is not legislation, are six articles in a directive and a string of provisions that cover government needs - had to come in accordance with the urgency procedure. What is today's legislation urgent? Is there a layout? Can he explain? There is a demand of lenders and what is it? Can it be called? None of this. But Parliament's Rules of Procedure are bent. Why don't we know why? As is the information provided by the National Representation for the information of SYRIZA's collective bodies. As is the principle of openness in public life in favour of the need to create impressions for the government to survive. But, behind all this, there is the reality, which is the need for national survival. It is precisely because there is this reality, ladies and gentlemen, that the government in its last term of office should not cause further damage. Because I tell you - it may be sad to say so - that government is either later or sooner than it is on its way. This is evident not only in the measurements, but also in the sense of each of us moving within the framework of society as a whole. So in the latter period, what this government has to propose, in our view, is not to cause more damage to the place. And this piece of legislation - and I am not referring to the first six articles - with the very strange provisions which either contained and withdrawn and which are still in place here, such as Article 22, Article 10, concerning the granting of a tax certificate, and through it, in fact tax amnesty in those companies which have been granted under the administration of creditors, is what is done here with all that is that the government continues to burden things, continues to cause problems in the country, continues to lead the country to a descent, to a descent and to a further descent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u166	Mr Papachristopoulos of the Independent Greeks has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr President. I will not resist the temptation to say that we may have differences with Mr Nine, but I must admit that the way he handles his opposition speech is a decent one, something that we need in this Chamber. Apart from that, to speak with facts and to say that only recently exports to that country increased to around 5.6%. What does that mean to the economy? In recent years investment, not gas-industrial investments, increased to around 12%. Also, the absorption of ESDP funds puts our country in the first absorption line after many years. For tourism, I don't have to mention anything. It sounds every day. A record breaks this year's tourism. Also, from 0.5% of the surplus we had to present at the end of 2016, this government presented more than 4%. I also saw some people who really respect triumphantly when there was a recession. Later, however, it was corrected and, at least small, but growth. This is a very important negotiating paper for what is being done today with lenders. I would also like to remind you that the extrajudicial compromise involved four hundred thousand businesses and over one million workers. I don't understand? Who really is in favour of private initiative? Their people, like Mr. Corkydis, Mr. Michalos, but also all businessmen waited like a manna from heaven for this extrajudicial compromise. Remember the opposition to this piece of legislation. Furthermore, when the forest maps came, it's a condition that we finally have a Land register, remember the reaction of the officer and the minor opposition. The only country that didn't have a real estate register was us. Don't tell you which countries they don't own. Still remember what happened a day ago. Some people may not say anything. I believe, however, that this is a strong step. For the first time, the country creates a development bank. In Germany there is KfW. In Great Britain, there is the British Business Bank. In France there is the National Development Agency. In Italy, there is the Cassa Depositi e Prestiti. What do I mean? Years the real bankers dreamed of this bank. We know that today is a fact and the institutions welcome it. I don't want to expand any further. I'm neither an economist nor a banker. It's a positive step. I would also like to remind you that some days ago the 'TOTAL' and 'EXXONMOBIL', which we know is the director at EXXONMOBIL, is currently the United States Minister, starting mining. I don't close the previous ones. I would like to admit that an effort has really been made, especially in the service of Mr Maniotis. However, even though for me it is very important and somewhere it went unnoticed, Mr. Haritsis and his staff of course it is the one who managed to be the first to absorb the NRP. With four financial instruments and the development law on the market 5.1 billion. And to be precise, the applications made with the new development law, which is very new, were seven hundred seven, of which six hundred forty-nine are medium and small businesses. This is the answer to 'you leave now'. Let me not repeat why the roads have not been closed this year. Let one wonder, what the Apostle and his staff did and the streets were not first closed. Not to repeat that there was not a single man killed at the sixteen knots that Spirtz opened. I don't get zero. Some of these were done before, especially on Spirtzi's subject. What prevented you so many years from making the plastic money that it really hits tax evasion? Remind me of a major moral class thing too. What was really preventing you after thirteen years from dealing with this? The place was swinging. I respect the presumption of innocence. And I really wish Mr Papantoniou to exercise it. But we had a sacred obligation to make this committee in the House. Do you remember the reactions of the New Democracy and the Democratic Alliance? "Give the law back. You are irresponsible". Did it work like a spring? Mrs. Tulupakis searched the Borgians list. Do you know what burned Mr. Papantoniou? The fact that a large piece of court knew there was no political will. The lists were hiding. So Mrs. Toulupakis, apart from the three accounts, except for the insurance office, found a weird account on the Borgians list. You remember that list? I say again that I wish any Greek citizen the presumption of innocence to exist. All of this was done by the "usable", "hazardous" government, for which, in fact, from morning until night, we hear "German germans", "Venezuela", "North Korea", "elections", "Thracian" and other designations. As I said, the previous speech does not use characterizations. I respect his decency and have no hesitation to recognize her. We're rivals. We didn't say we loved each other! And that's the role of Officer Opposition. Let's go to today. They're pulling our fingers from morning to night. Do we have a responsibility? Yeah. Captain? Do we have a political cost? Yeah. Is there a big part of the world going through badly? Sure. Let's remember, though. I can't answer that. You've heard 27% of unemployment before? The competent PASOK and New Democracy governments delivered after forty years 27% of unemployment. They delivered a debt of around 323-325 billion. They delivered GDP from 120% to 180% and 14 of the Greeks had already lost their income. Where were the real analysts, the ones who swing the finger and characterize all these years? Did they deliver a yes or no bankrupt country? What do these four numbers mean? Is he handling a pillaging? Yes or no? I don't want to name it. In a hundred pockets, the billions of the stock market went. Did you hear anything? In a hundred pockets the overpriced of the Olympic Games went. Did you hear anything? In a hundred pockets, billions of armaments went. In a hundred pockets overpriceds and disgraceful health went. I would like to point out that the SIEMENS cost 22 billion. Who's involved? 18 billion has been costed by the Agricultural Bank. Who's involved? To canalarchs one, three, the official ones. Where is he? In your parties 420 million. If I were to owe you, honestly, the first thing I would do when I wanted to advise someone, I would say to him: "Excuse me very much, I have no money, but I will do something." Tell us what you're gonna do. What are you going to do about that debt? And search all the lists, "Lagard", "Borgians". People talk, and they're bothering that it's a parthology. No, gentlemen. That is why the country is currently in this position. We made mistakes. We recognize them. We were ignorant of danger. We've been in the middle of something. We made wrong choices. One thing we didn't do. When I see her playing for six days the trachosari that they took some of their unwitting, and that is corruption in the country, I am sure we never put a hand in honey. Never! And this is our big ace. I remind you of something and I'll be done. Do I have a minute, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u168	You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u169	Thank you very much. Jeremy Corbin has been patient for over thirteen years. He was alone when in Heid Park, London, for this operation that they were going to do in Iraq, when Blair and son Bush had discovered nuclearly in Saddam - I did not deny that Saddam was a dictator - he said: "You are secure, you open the gates of hell." Four hundred thousand Iraqis died. And then he talked - do you have him as an anarchist or bomber? - and he said, "You're wrong. You are firing terrorism at what you have done." And to say something else, because your brains have been aired by false polls. Corbin was 20 units ago two months ago behind Teresa Mae. If you don't know, you're looking at the difference of today. He's a modest, humble, honest, political. And by end, I want to say a great good one to Theodore Venice, let him be our class opponent. He had the courage to beat the Simple doctrine, which wants to prevail in shipping as well. I want to say a big shot to this Greek! Because, I'm sorry to say it, but we should all be united. The whole planet cannot be seen at the moment, Gabriel, all the German, French, Italian press see that Shoeble is at the moment causing and wrathful and there are politicians in our country - fortunately not all - who are reluctant to think: 'Vasta Shoeble!'. I am sorry for that, and I conclude with this: I agree that we must have a consensus in this Chamber. We didn't come here to get killed. We can be opponents with decency, ethos and above all with sincerity, which is largely absent. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Anastasios Megalomoustakas has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u171	Mr President, I would like you to give me the floor for a minute under the Rules of Procedure to see a motion for a resolution after Mr Megahystakas.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u172	If you want, you can now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u173	I would like to inform Mrs Papanatsiou of the amendment I have tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u174	You can take the floor now. Mr. Big-fashioned can wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u175	Minister, because you referred to the amendment, I explained by developing it that this property has been allocated for forty years and I had attached to the amendment the presidential decree of declassification with topography. The Municipality of Ilida has submitted since the end of the rental of a new long-term rental request accompanied by an economic study. So it's most likely to come back with a new request. You can accept the amendment now. Otherwise, let us inform the municipality of making you a new request again. That is what I have to say, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u177	If there is a request from the Municipality of Ilida to the Ministry, I don't think she needs to make a new request. We will look into it and come back some other time. After all, there are quite a few properties that the municipalities are looking for to give to them. In a subsequent bill, which we will have other cases, we will also look at your theme.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Big-fashioned, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u179	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Mr President, today I think I will be repeating myself! Almost every time we get up here most speakers report the same mistakes, as you make the same mistakes. I am not going to deal with the bill technically, as our rapporteur thinks that it has been covered in detail and expressed our views. However, I will highlight some of the problems that we see in this bill. One of these is the sloppiness and the way you legislate, as we have seen once again that there are provisions that you are withdrawing, too many corrections and that this bill should come as a matter of urgency, and we do not really understand why. Unfortunately, this shows another weakness of yours, the inability to cooperate. And you may have asked a government a few days ago to have a common line for all parties, at least with the debt issue, for which we are not opposed. Almost on the first day we are in the Greek Parliament, all we ask is cooperation between the parties. But this should not be hypocritical about the eyes of the world. We want something essential, because that is the only way to solve our problem. You know that, too, everyone knows that asking for something without actually wanting it is meaningless. And if we wanted to, you'd tell us what all the prerequisites the lenders asked you to do, all the conditions discussed between you two, so we could claim something better, as we should be. Unfortunately, this is not the case. Another thing that we understand from this bill is that there is no state continuity or cooperation between your ministries, including your Members, and both of them, who have formed this government. Listening carefully to Mr Papachristopoulos earlier to tell us all these problems, all these pathogens, all these scandals that afflicted the Greek people and brought us into this situation, I realised that he didn't tell us anything but what is being discussed in a café in a group of people. And what did you do about it? And I'm not asking you, I'm asking the whole government, as he mentioned it very well, but I didn't see anything happening about it. The world knows what Mr Papachristopoulos said earlier. What he cares about is getting some of that money back, which has not happened. The other thing that bothers me in your bill is that this share of public property in municipalities has become a part of it. You saw what the previous speaker said. This also exists in my prefecture - it is not your Ministry, but the Ministry of National Defence - where the concession of camps has been agreed. There is a ready plan from the Municipality of Serres for what will happen. There are programmes that will exploit these sites and be financially assisted by European funds. However, this agreement is not complete. There were commitments from the ministers that they would be made. There were commitments from all the executives, especially from the Ministry of National Defence, that sooner or later this will end. He went through it fast, passed and slow and unfortunately nothing ends. I know it's not your fault, but you belong to this coup d'état. So you must act so that all these problems can be solved. The other point I would like to raise - and to finish my brief speech on this bill - concerns the fact that we cannot understand why you do not answer questions that come so clearly from all the sides of this House, such as what I mentioned before, because a bill does not normally come as it does in the form of urgency. I would like a clear answer. I would like you to tell us if, within these measures, the provisions you bring are one of the prerequisites, which invites you to bring it in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Mr. Mada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u181	Ladies and gentlemen, we will shortly conclude this procedure for the adoption of the bill, which is the ratification of the European directive and other positive provisions. I think that, in this process, it is worth mentioning, beyond the issues that have been analysed - I believe, with a sufficient degree - certain parameters relating to the draft law, which relate to this critical situation in which we live. In October 2014 from the Step of the Parliament it was heard that thankfully for Greece and unfortunately for SYRIZA the debt is sustainable. Mr. Samaras received them in October 2014. What's behind this? And how are we today discussing the debt issue? Because too much has been said. It hides - and I present it to the National Representation - the 2014 International Monetary Fund report, which provided for primary surpluses of over 4% for many years. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Mantas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And shortly thereafter in the 2015 sustainability report, it is mentioned in the previous report that the Greek debt was sustainable but unstable. And any differences between these discussions and any assumptions are judged on two things, which I repeat, because some people mean and continue to show just a part of what is said in relation to debt and not all the evidence. So the assumptions on the issue of primary surpluses are being hidden. When the primary surplus makes it 4%, 3.5%, you do it perhaps 1.5% - and I will refer to it below - then very well the debt at once can be made sustainable, the other non-viable and the third sustainable with instability. Any differences can therefore be explained on the basis of this data. Repeat: The 2014 case was with stable primary surpluses of over 4% - reaching even 4.5% - for many years. It's page 9 of the 2014 International Monetary Fund report, which I just submitted. I would remind you that even what the Governor of the Bank of Greece said about the differences in the viability of the Greek debt was about the 2016 report, which was written with long-term forecasts of the debt of 1.5%. And because there is a great deal of discussion on these issues, I would like to repeat from this step forward that the Greek Government is fighting in very difficult conditions, which we all know. I think that what the Greek people and the last man have understood in this country, but I would also say in Europe, is that there is a cynical and dogmatic commitment in one view, in an attempt to find a compromise between the International Monetary Fund and the German side, the German Ministry of Finance, and to postpone the definitive definition, I would say, of a clean runway for a next time. I have to clarify once again that what we were asking for and asking for is not to apply medium-term debt measures now, but to be identified with the greatest clarity for their implementation after 2018, on the basis of the conditions set out in the 2015 decision. I would remind you that in the May 2015 decision there was something very specific that I would like to point out to the National Representation, that the ceiling of 15% entered the funding needs that we should not - and we all agreed on this - go above that. How old was it? What were we paying to serve the debt? On average, at least the years of the memorandum, between 2009 and 2014, 2015 and so on, the financial needs for debt service were close to 25%. Steps have been taken.Huh? I'll say it's done. Apparently they did. And the level of prolongation and the level of interest rates, etc. The appeal I would make, above all, at these critical moments is to tell the whole truth. So let us not put this effort to zero, which we have just now - so that we do not forget - you considered it to be out of place and out of time and said that there is no question, etc., in order to be able, ladies and gentlemen, to have what we say 'win-win', to win in any case for your opposition patronage. On the one hand, you should show that this pursuit of the Greek Government was unthinkable, not crucial - and I do not know what else - and at the same time, in so far as it would not come out of this, you would present it as a defeat for the negotiation of the Greek Government, while everyone knows that this is a very difficult effort that is taking place within a European and international environment, unstable and liquid. I think I have to repeat - and I will do so - that the government's pursuit remains the clear solution. Our aim is to have a deal that will not trap the Greek economy. I think no one in this country wants the Greek economy to be trapped once again. We want him out of this trap. We want a clear corridor of this kind so that the next day of the agreement and investors and the Greek people understand that we have a clear horizon now, to get out, with the end of the 2018 programme, from lending, not institutional lenders, why you confuse it and say for the fourth memorandum. There is no question of this and you know it very well. A Memorandum exists when there is a need to borrow from institutional lenders. When the country comes on the market, there may be obligations and objectives from the medium-term programme, but there is no memorandum and that is clear. This is therefore the pursuit of the Greek Government. We see that this is not only the pursuit of a government, but it is a pursuit for the country. That's why we invite you to contribute. I am not at all underestimating any contribution that has been made so far and I refer to the joint statement by the three groups in the European Parliament and the letter by the President of the Democratic Independence. I would expect a more active effort to be made to the political family of the New Democracy at this critical moment, and I mean at the level of the European People's Party. I shall end with that, Mr President, because I think that is crucial at the moment. There's a liquid situation. There's the criticality at the moment. There is a need to proceed with a solution that will get the country out of the crisis, and that need is not only Greek. Because you are well aware that some are seeking to continue this crisis, as behind the Greek problem, of course, there is the problem of Italian debt. If this bounce opens, it's not over. We, therefore, as a radical force on the Left at European level, insist with persistence, with difficulties, with failures or with mistakes we are fighting for a definitive exit of the country from the crisis. At the same time, we are fighting for a Europe which is not a cynical Europe, which, on the one hand, is talking about tax cooperation, but on the other, allows tax havens within it, for a Europe of solidarity, and not a Europe where one group of states - for example, north, south - will lay the burdens on the other, for a Europe that will move away from the dogmas of unilateral austerity, so as to finally open up a different path for our country as well. That's what this is about. This is our struggle, which we are also stubbornly giving abroad - at European and international level - but also at country level. I think that it has been analysed by other colleagues, like Mr Papachristopoulos, exactly what we are doing inside the country on this whole course. I do not want to abuse the time to respond to what is heard, what is too much, I would say. I would not like to describe them otherwise, when it is said that the country is not governed. I think anyone who really wants to see what's going on can see it. He can see it again - despite the mistakes, the omissions, the difficulties we have. But we have a stable horizon, we have a firm orientation, and I think that at the end of the day, ladies and gentlemen, we will be able to get the country out of the crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u183	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u184	Mr. Loverdo, excuse me. Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed the protagonists procedure and everything accompanying the current process. I'd like to ask who they want to secondary to open a list. As far as I can see, it's Mr. Amyras, Arvanitidis, Loverdos and Cavalella. First of all, Mr Karathanasopoulos, you said you would not speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u185	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u186	Will Mr. Vardalis speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u187	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u188	So we have Mr. Loverdos, Mr. Constantopoulos, Mr. Amyras. Mr. Teddy, will you speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u189	Unless something is said, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u190	It's also Mr. Cavalellas, the Minister has said she doesn't want to. If need be, he'll have the floor. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor. Can we talk about a five-minute, three-minute, four-minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u191	Five minutes will suffice.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u192	Good, five minutes. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u193	I would like to address the State Secretary and say to her that I consider it very good on her part, which refers to opposition in name, both for parties and for colleagues, in a very kind manner and with arguments. That helps talk. It removes, of course, the possibility of taking the floor on personal grounds, because no personal issues arise. However, the parliamentary representative always has the right under the Rules of Procedure to react to ministerial intervention. However, I would like to say to you, Minister, even though you have referred in detail to me and to Mr Amyras and to other colleagues, on the point I raised from my first speech, who is responsible for Article 12(3) on confidentiality, on the abolition of professional secrecy. After Mr Kontonis's intervention here, you did not give an answer. I would ask you very much to give an answer, because it was one of my arguments concerning an inalienable state, which you have kindly commented on in your speech. I am not trying to speak in symbolic ways or drawing examples of literature. And since you referred to the Circa Army, can I tell you that I don't know now: Are the 'cut heads'? The Little Man? What example do you draw from there to find similarities to the current government? It's your business. I don't know which of the three books of trilogy goes your mind more. But I do, Minister. I have mentioned examples of what is true and I have not had time to say them, and I will not have had time today. However, since I was given this opportunity in my dentistry, I would like to mention the example of the Tsipras-Kammen amendment for the gift of the Savvidis fines. Mr President, I asked the Minister of Justice whether what I read somewhere is true, namely that the Tsipras - Kammenos amendment for Mr Savvidis came while the trial was held at the Court of Appeal in Rhodope and the decision was pending. I am told by the Minister responsible that this is the case, that on 6 April the court and the court were held at a conference and instead of the court deciding, Mr Tsipras and Mr Kammenos answered and the hundred and fifty-three in the House. This is not just a sign of interlocutoryity, but of a country where democracy is in doubt, where the Constitution violates, that the country is not governed by institutions. There are other examples, Mr Minister. So let me tell you that I do not speak in symbolic ways but dominate. And one more thing in your answer. You referred to all of the opposition - particularly in the New Democracy and in PASOK - by saying that you have received debts that others have created. It's not exactly what you're saying. You took over in 2015. The crisis broke out in 2009-2010. Then there were governments and parties who, with great sacrifice, lifted the burdens of the Greek people and, as far as the deficits are concerned, created surpluses and, as far as the recession is concerned, we brought growth back and as far as public debt is concerned, the major cuts, the global prototypes and more of all times in public debt have been made. And you came and brought back the recession, you came and brought back the deficits, and you came and brought the debt growth. So when you want to dominate yourself and refer to the crisis, you need to make a double reference. We are talking about the crisis that broke out in 2009-2010 - and as others have handled it - by the end of 2014 and the crisis that had to be handled by another government, double the cost of the Greek people, to be Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras. In conclusion, I would like to make a reference to the majority parliamentary representative. Mr President, today we have raised a number of issues to which we have been entitled. I am referring to Rule 12(3), which has been withdrawn. At the time when we raised the issue, Members of your parliamentary group - and you - complained why we put it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u194	I don't.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u195	I was even trying to tell you to expect you to listen to all my position to see that sometimes you should not react in a hurry. So within that I asked - and finally accepted - there was the abolition of confidentiality for your own profession, because you are a university professor, you are a doctor and the confidentiality is essentially about lawyers and doctors and others. And what you had to react first, you didn't say a word. So accept my criticism here that there are problems posed by counter-population and is right several times. And you must be careful about the way you react, especially when that is neither a point nor a point of view, but a scream from the field of the energies. You must also say - where you have avoided it - how this article entered into the draft law and why your own Member has not been found to support it. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Then Mr. Amyras, Mr. Arvanitidis and Mr. Cavadellas will take the floor. Immediately afterwards, Mr. Kammenos will take the floor, because I have given the order.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u197	Mr President, if I have to, I'll take the floor at the end for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u198	If I have to, you'll certainly talk. Mr. Arvanitides, because I see you, do you want to talk? Because Mr. Loverdos spoke earlier, we said we would have a different order. That is why I intend to give the floor to Mr Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u199	I have no problem, Mr President, speaking after Mr Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u200	Here, Mr Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u201	We will suffer from "overdose" from PASOK!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u202	Parliament has a sense of humor. The Bureau accepts it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with a little comment, listening to the words of Mr Manda, the chosen colleague. Mr Mada, I really say: 'Where have you been in the last two, two and a half years?' This mild, consensual speech, just made out by your lips, was absent from your lineup, from your party, from your government, in the past two and a half years. Now, then, we feel that, as the government is probably screwing up - I say it for the sake of courtesy, because I believe that we are surely aware that two and a half years is not moving forward, but on the contrary, the country is backing up, ratings are not closing, doses are not taking, and the country is back to zero, and the debt is not regulated, nor quantity relaxation is coming before us - this consensual attitude could hide mood, I would say, 'consensuality'. In other words, it is like saying: 'Come on, we all become accomplices to the shipwreck and not be charged on our own'. We in the Potami, Mr Mada, dear Parliamentary Representatives of the SYRIZA and other colleagues, say that consents are, of course, built on the basis of the truth, on the basis of the constant awareness of the political forces between them and the external factor and on the basis of a plan. No plan, no matter where you go, you're gonna do nothing. This is a small comment I wanted to make. I shall now review what we have heard and said at the last sittings in committee and in plenary. I would once again stress the unacceptable legislative procedure to become an accordion, to become a tire, one of the heights, one of the depths, to stretch it, an urgent procedure, and I do not know what else. You would have protected yourself, but above all the citizens, from getting into a - I would say - the mood of suspicion that something rotten and gray happens in the parliamentary seats and, above all, the majority. For example, you brought us Article 12, for which Mr. Loverdos has made a great deal of reference. I also told you in committee that this article - the abolition of the essence of professional secrecy - is contrary to both European and national law. He opposes the basic principles of the Constitution. And why do you bring it with an emergency procedure - spray, wipe, finish - without being able to discuss such an important issue in depth? About the same thing I told you - of course with another content - on Article 16, on exemption from value-added tax on the sale of a company's real estate or mechanical equipment. I told you that it is not properly formulated that there are holes, that there are gray areas and there is no justification for the urgency of this provision entering the "order" of this bill and that there is a bullet to the top of the Greek reality. So we're talking about a bill that's a mini tax. Of the twenty-nine articles, six are the incorporation of the European directive and the other twenty-three are purely tax bills. One should hear from the government apologies to the Greek businessman, the small and medium-sized, the big one - it does not matter - and tell us what it will do to lead the Greek businesses that went back to Bulgaria, to Greece. I have not heard anything about a different tax approach to production, to business. Now I will have to let you know - and you will see that in the next few days there will be much discussion - about the following: in Bulgaria, not only Greek businesses are now rushing but also natural persons to make mobile connections to make them cheaper the account from the ends of mobile telephony that has increased in Greece. Well, it's another little rock in the country's shoe, in terms of stepping up and economics, which can have other kinds of consequences. Because if you addict the Greek, the oppressed economics - as you want - the wronged one, to escape paths that are half-carriages and I don't know what, then you do much more damage to the overall structure. In our previous debate in plenary, in which the Prime Minister was present, I had mentioned the example of an anonymous company - a small, small and medium-sized company - based in Attica, which sent me a note saying: 'Mr. Memorandum, EUR 100,000 net profits, we achieved, in the midst of enormous difficulties, in 2016. Of the EUR 100,000 net profits of an anonymous company in Greece, only EUR 22 000 are left behind after the carpets, taxation, insurance contributions, etc.." He tells me, "Can such a business flourish here in Greece?" In any case, I would like to end up telling you this: all this for whom is happening? Is it because we have a public sector that is blossom, which is fast, which is indestructible and effective? No, no, no, no, We have a dead cow, which has been baptized as a 'High cow', and we leave the real 'High cow' of this place, which is the private sector that produces, which researches, which innovates, exports, rot. This is a responsibility and signature of SYRIZA - ANEL. And I'm ending up. I said, then, earlier in my speech, that since the Greek Government cannot do it like Cyprus that entered the memorial to us and came out after us, let Giannis do it with the two "n", Antetokounbo, who proved that if you have pragmatism within you, if you are a realist, if you have a goal, if you work hard, if you are capable, then you have a lot of chance of winning the sky. But here, I'm afraid things are...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, Mr. Amyras. Antetokunbo had a three-point, he didn't have two "n"!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u205	I shall conclude, Mr President. I'm ending with half the phrase. I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, from 1-1-2018, dear Mr Manda, that I see you smiling, in a good sense, I tell you...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u206	I'm not smiling.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u207	...doubt the new engraving of the single night's fee for tourist businesses. We are all talking, and above all you of the government about tourism, and you are not saying that we have had a record of arrivals, but we have also had a record of lower revenues, of tourist revenues, compared with the per capita expenditure of each tourist since he stepped in Greece. Let's talk about all this, so we can have a full picture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, Mr. Amyras. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty-four students and students and four educational attendants from the 1st Primary School of Tyrnavo Larissa. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Arvanitides has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u209	Give me some more time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u210	What more? It's enough five minutes. You're eloquent too!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Mr President. I went to Stepma because I had promised that I would give a second answer on the amendments. Of course, I note, Minister, that it was an interesting meeting in the sense that you withdrew the two regulations for both Article 16 and Article 12. It is a positive development in relation to the past, which you did not hear any of the remarks, and then we turned around and "vote" topics, which we had misguided. I now come to the amendments. For the amendment of a general number 1045 and a special number 165 of the Ministry of the Interior for the construction, maintenance and operation of children's playgrounds in public spaces and the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, we have no objection. Likewise, for Amendment No 1046 and for Amendment No 166 by the Ministry of Finance, on the exemption from tax for those natural or legal persons who have a tax residence in a country of the European Union and receive remuneration in Greece for a number of services. With regard to Amendment No 1047 and Amendment No 167 on the extension of a time limit for the statement of undeclared income, we have told you when you first brought this provision to Parliament, that we do not in fact object. Take note, however, of our view that a regulation is useful, which urges those who have secret incomes to say it and have so far been afraid to do so because of the country's unstable tax system and bad economic climate. The amendment, however, as it stands, is rather 'closing' to those who have already received control sheets from the competent authorities. That, unfortunately, is the reality. For the amendment with a general number of 1048 and a special number of 168, which concerns overtime driving examiners by the end of 2017, we are positive. But, as Mr Mavraganis has said, the end date must be respected without further prolongation. For the amendment with a general number of 1049 and a special number of 169 we say'residents', such as'residents', we shall also state in the amendment with a general number of 1053 and a special number of 173, which limits the number of farmers entitled to the reduced tax. Finally, we declare that we will vote on the amendment by a general number of 1051 and a specialist of 171 on the changes to the concession for the use of hay. Mrs Koutsoukos, we urge you finally to accept the amendment tabled by my colleague, Mr Koutsoukos, on the concession of the camp to Kuruta in the Prefecture of Elias. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Cavalellas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u213	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, during my first speech today, I referred to Article 7 where, under the proposed provision of paragraph 1, facilities and incentives are provided in respect of tax exemptions. In particular, it excludes VAT from the kinds of food offered free of charge in order to enhance private participation in the fight against child poverty and food insecurity, which, of course, concerns primary and secondary education students. However, the issue is wider and, in view of the extremely difficult situation in the country, this measure should be extended and other vulnerable groups covered. I want to unite my voice with the concern that is reasonably created in this Chamber about how you legislate, how you reach these bills in our hands and how you support something that at the same time, at the same time, you correct it, you vote against it within you. You have avoided - fortunately - after the general outcry - and that was reasonable - the provision on waiver of confidentiality. I wonder how far this thing was? It reminded me of bad days. I've lived the junta, and I kind of got upset when I saw this thing, without wanting to compare. But it was hard. We're wondering, who inspired it? Did they give it to you? If that is the case, you have to resign. I'm sorry to say this, I don't want to be a bad either, but the Minister said he didn't know about it. If the Minister doesn't know, Minister, or you don't know how to do your job, or you lied to us. This article had so many signatures under it. Didn't anyone see it? Didn't anyone understand what this is all about? At first glance, I was upset to tell you the truth. Then we have Article 16 that withdrew it, which exempts the value tax from selling or renting real estate, which was operating as a business, with any existing equipment, etc., when it is of course converted from an alpha-enterprise to a beta. It is very reasonable and very fair, because when someone had it as a pharmacy and someone else makes it a cafeteria, the "bride" and "clientity" do not apply. The cafeteria will seek a new clientele. So I would like to bring it quickly corrected, let me say it like that. However, it is very helpful to the economy in general. With regard to the confiscated ones, which will be communicated by masonry, I would say it takes us too many years back. Is posting a public website or something that creates conditions of transparency difficult? Does decoupling serve any crows, which will be notified without anyone getting news? I've noted a lot, but the time is running out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Kammenos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u215	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have said to the committees and also to my previous suggestions, the Independent Greeks regard as extremely important and extremely important - in my opinion - as a matter of urgency, of all these arrangements being passed. I do not understand why some say that it is twenty-three tax and six. Yeah, that's the way it is, and that's what has to be done. I don't know, because four hundred and fifty-six hadn't done it until we got here. Why didn't you ever make an extrajudicial compromise? You reached the red loans at EUR 86 billion and you never wanted to give a solution. What were you waiting for? Is the problem of red loans solved by itself? We're doing it. But whoever works makes mistakes. And we are a government, which does not have the arrogance to correct its mistakes. Do not start now to remember what has happened since 2010, how many mistakes have been made. Mr. Cutter came out the other day to tell us about Mr. Papandreou. So are everyone coming out to tell us that thankfully they didn't fail us in 2010 and they want us to vote again today? So what do they want to tell us? That these guys "fly" cicadas and we can't do it? The world has little memory and I would like us to be a little careful when we make references to such a close past, which - in my opinion and with all due respect - has brought Greece into this bad position that we are in today. I shall speak in particular for the extension of the period of voluntary disclosure of the taxable material. We do not need to talk about it all, because we support the entire bill and the articles and the amendments. It is, however, an extremely important initiative taken by the government, because there was a very large volume of cases, which wanted and wanted to reveal incomes and did not have time for the first five months of the year, as the deadline expired on 31 May. If I am not mistaken - if I do, may I be corrected by the Minister - the taxable material that has been revealed to date, I think that is EUR 2 billion. This is the taxable amount which was taxed and thus received public revenue. That is why I don't think anyone will lie to us again and I don't imagine any of Parliament's wings not to vote on this amendment, because what does it do? It gives someone an incentive to close their cases, pay what he owed or had concealed from the public, without criminal clauses, to pay the tax in question, so that there is a fair and not unequal treatment of taxpayers among themselves. I think it is extremely important and must be supported by everyone. With regard to the amendment - which was equally important - to merge to legal persons, to taxation, to income tax and to income tax within and outside Greece - it was extremely important for all businesses and healthy competition to be treated equally, so that everyone knows how it is taxed, where it is taxed, so that they can bring their services to Greece and not take them from Greece - the government has listened and rightly withdrew the relevant article. It also rightly withdrew as I had pointed out very soon in my first suggestion to committee and Article 16, not because it is wrong, but because it has to be a little more thoughtful and a little better, so that there is no misinterpretation. Because we are now seeing - and several days now - how the policy and the media modeling function, which cuts and sews pieces of healthy bills that are only for good, are not done to benefit someone in particular - and here there was this misunderstanding - and they turn - if you want to - politically instead, where many people are favoured, unfortunately no one is favoured. It just needs a better wording and I think we'll do it. I would like to point out that, as far as I have been informed, the concession was granted to the ownership of the buildings of the former EBA-ESA court in the Attica region. We welcome it. I've said here about the last article in the bill, where pieces are being transferred to the public. The public and the Ministry of Development and the co-legislative ministries must try so that the licenses and new uses will have these properties either from municipalities or from regions or any other legal person governed by public law will soon be made so that there is a added value and value to the Greek citizen or to the person who will manage it. If we are to give a property and be a duvet and wait six, seven, ten years to be licensed to do any work on it, I think it is a gift and our government should pay special attention to it. I listened carefully to my fellow Members and to the criticism they have made and exercised in our Government a moment ago in relation to the negotiation. In conclusion, I would like to say that these days are very important. I have made relevant statements. I do not want to repeat myself trimmed by all the Members of Parliament. It is important to disburse and enter a normality after disbursement and the Greek market and the public debts to private individuals to fulfil even partially. That's what the market is waiting for. The rest, on the basis of the May 2016 agreement, will be fulfilled, because - if you like - the contractual obligations of the counterparties, namely the institutions. From there on, there will be a way of working with the International Monetary Fund. There is, for me, a question, whether it goes away or not, that is, the institutional framework which it will have and what it will be the next day. I think we've had a number of questions solved by Mrs. Lagard these days. We have to be committed to the fact that since we have taken the compliance report, that is, the analysis that we are fine with all our obligations, we go to disbursement of the dose, which will be quite high and we will fulfil the obligations of July and not just. From that point on, I think that the government is working very hard to bring this normality to the Greek market and to bring the normality and calmness of the dose into the first phase. All the rest are macroeconomic theories, for which I have also written two - three articles. Everyone is fighting but nobody knows the subject, what part of the debt will be restructured, how technically, what will you do with the profits of the central bank, what will the parliaments say, what will the ESSM say, what will Mr Draghi say in relation to the entire debt restructuring system, and what part will you get to restructure, EFSF, EMS, transnationals, the first? It's 215 billion. Here I would say that we have a period of interest and debt relief for about 65% of the loans made by the Eurobonds. From the 215 billion we serve - if you want - 35%, and that shows that our debt is not sustainable today, because the rest of us are serving them later, from 22 to 22, because we have some debts of 24 billion a year and these should be smoothed down. So it is clear that if you find it difficult, as the institutions say, to serve and make the debt viable by serving 35%, imagine to serve 100%. And that is a debt that was not created by our own government. Let me say once again that when we took over in 2015, we only had a debt service for 2015 of 22 billion, for which no one has said, of those who blame us, if they were the government, where they would find them. Would they go out on the markets for 22 billion by 2015? How much? With the interest rate at 7.5% - 8% that was December 2014? They wouldn't. They would sign a new Memorandum and preventative lines also needed the new Memorandum, the new loan and the IMF contribution. And I'm not talking about the preventive line. It calls it the Statute of the ESM and the product called a preventive credit line and prerequisite for the memorandum, prerequisites for the loan and prerequisites for the participation of the IMF. So in 2015 we would have a new memorandum again we wouldn't be on the markets as some imagine it. Of course, retrospective prophets can be all. In conclusion, with all due respect and a dose of humor, my friend George Amyras is trying a great deal. We have chairs and we sit. You, I don't know, got your chairs from the party to show you'll sit on the floor. I hope we don't get to sit on the floor, but we might get to a tour, if you want all of us together or go to a beach. But let's sit in a chair - in the good sense, I say - to do our jobs and such shapes are, I think, too much. I'm saying it with a dose of humor and all kindness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u216	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u217	Mr President, I would like to speak for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u218	All right, the chairs will be round, so that's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u219	Thank you. My dear colleague, Mr Kammene, we did in the river have abolished the chairs and used the balls that do good in the middle. Trido and McCron used the same thing in France. That's why you come to the side of sport, and something good will come out for everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u220	Thank you. After a chair - we talked, we'll see what happens. Mr. Mada, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u221	I would just like to refer to something that Mr Loverd has said. If you understood well, I wasn't one of those people who yelled so you wouldn't talk. I said that to listen to you. I wanted to clarify this. Of course, it was a matter that troubled us. You always know that in these matters - you know it, like me - we have a particular sensitivity to personal data. In any case, it was an issue that we talked about until the last minute. I think it is a good thing that there has been a change. I'm stopping here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance is finalised: ‘Adaptation of Greek legislation to the provisions of Directive (EU) 2015/2376 and other provisions’. This House asks whether the bill is accepted in principle:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u223	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u224	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u225	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u226	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u227	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u228	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u229	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u230	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u231	Therefore, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Adapting Greek legislation to the provisions of Directive (EU) 2015/2376 and other provisions’ was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the vote on articles and amendments and they will be voted on separately. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u232	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u233	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u234	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u235	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u236	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u237	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u238	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u239	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u240	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u241	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u242	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u243	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u244	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u245	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u246	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u247	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u248	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u249	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u250	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u251	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u252	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u253	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u254	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u255	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u256	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u257	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u258	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u259	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u260	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u261	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u262	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u263	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u264	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u265	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u266	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u267	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u268	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u269	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u270	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u271	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u272	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u273	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u274	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u275	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u276	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u277	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u278	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u279	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u280	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u281	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u282	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u283	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u284	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u285	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u286	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u287	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u288	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u289	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u290	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u291	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u292	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u293	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u294	Article 7 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 8 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u295	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u296	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u297	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u298	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u299	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u300	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u301	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u302	Yeah. We are voting 'yes' with a reservation, simply for the Minutes to exist for paragraph 8 and 9. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u303	Article 8 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u304	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u305	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u306	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u307	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u308	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u309	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u310	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u311	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u312	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 10 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u313	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u314	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u315	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u316	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u317	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u318	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u319	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u320	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u321	Article 10 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u322	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u323	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u324	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u325	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u326	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u327	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u328	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u329	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u330	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 12 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u331	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u332	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u333	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u334	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u335	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u336	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u337	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u338	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u339	Article 12 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does the House agree to Rule 13, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u340	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u341	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u342	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u343	Here you go. With the footnote that we are against paragraph 6.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u344	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u345	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u346	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u347	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u348	Article 13 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u349	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u350	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u351	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u352	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u353	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u354	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u355	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u356	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u357	Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u358	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u359	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u360	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u361	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u362	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u363	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u364	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u365	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u366	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 16 has been withdrawn and the other articles are renumbered. Does this House accept the new Article 16 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u367	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u368	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u369	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u370	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u371	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u372	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u373	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u374	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u375	The new Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 17 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u376	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u377	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u378	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u379	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u380	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u381	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u382	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u383	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u384	The new Article 17 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the new Article 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u385	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u386	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u387	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u388	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u389	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u390	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u391	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u392	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u393	The new Article 18 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the new Article 19 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u394	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u395	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u396	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u397	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u398	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u399	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u400	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u401	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u402	The new Article 19 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the new Article 20 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u403	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u404	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u405	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u406	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u407	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u408	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u409	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u410	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u411	The new Article 20 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the new Article 21 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u412	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u413	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u414	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u415	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u416	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u417	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u418	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u419	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u420	The new Article 21 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the new Article 22 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u421	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u422	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u423	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u424	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u425	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u426	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u427	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u428	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u429	The new Article 22 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the new Article 23 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u430	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u431	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u432	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u433	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u434	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u435	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u436	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u437	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u438	The new Article 23 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the new Article 24 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u439	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u440	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u441	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u442	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u443	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u444	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u445	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u446	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u447	The new Article 24 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the new Article 25 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u448	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u449	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u450	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u451	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u452	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u453	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u454	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u455	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u456	The new Article 25 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the new Article 26 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u457	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u458	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u459	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u460	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u461	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u462	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u463	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u464	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u465	The new Article 26 has therefore been accepted as being majority. Does this House accept the new Article 27 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u466	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u467	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u468	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u469	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u470	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u471	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u472	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u473	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u474	The new Article 27, therefore, has been accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the new Article 28 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u475	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u476	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u477	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u478	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u479	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u480	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u481	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u482	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u483	The new Article 28 therefore has been accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the new Article 29 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u484	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u485	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u486	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u487	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u488	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u489	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u490	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u491	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u492	The new Article 29, therefore, has been accepted as a majority. Is the amendment acceptable under a general number of 1047 and a special number of 167?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u493	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u494	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u495	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u496	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u497	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u498	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u499	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u500	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u501	The amendment under general number 1047 and a special 167 has therefore been accepted as it stands and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number of 1048 and a special number of 168?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u502	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u503	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u504	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u505	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u506	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u507	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u508	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u509	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u510	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 1048 and a specialist of 168 was accepted as it stands and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment acceptable under a general number 1049 and a special number 169 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u511	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u512	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u513	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u514	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u515	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u516	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u517	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u518	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u519	The amendment under general number 1049 and a special number 169 were therefore accepted as it stands and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number of 1051 and a specialist of 171 in its own right?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u520	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u521	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u522	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u523	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u524	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u525	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u526	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u527	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u528	Therefore, the amendment under general number 1051 and a specialist of 171 was accepted as it stands and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 1053 and a specialist of 173 in its own right?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u529	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u530	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u531	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u532	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u533	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u534	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u535	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u536	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u537	The amendment under number 1053 and a special 173 were therefore accepted as it stands and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment under a general number of 1055 and a specialist of 175 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u538	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u539	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u540	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u541	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u542	Yeah. Mr President, without prejudice to the clandestineness with which they legislate. We say yes to that reservation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u543	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u544	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u545	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u546	The amendment under general number 1055 and a special 175 were therefore accepted as it stands and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u547	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u548	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u549	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u550	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u551	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u552	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u553	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u554	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u555	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Therefore, the Law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Adaptation of Greek legislation to the provisions of Directive (EU) 2015/2376 and other provisions’ was accepted in principle and in articles. We shall now proceed to the vote of the bill and to the whole of it. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u556	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u557	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u558	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u559	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u560	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u561	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u562	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u563	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u564	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Adapting Greek legislation to the provisions of Directive (EU) 2015/2376 and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u565	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u566	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-06-S1-commons.u567	With the consent of the House at 16.50 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday, 7 June 2017 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's proceedings: a) a special plenary session dedicated to the memory of the former Prime Minister and Honorary President of the New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Mitsotakis and b) legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
