ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 21-12-2016, the minutes of its NV PRACTICE sessions were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau, of Wednesday, 21 December 2016, with regard to the vote on all draft laws: 1) "Sustainable development and other provisions" and 2) "Bovernment Code, Administrative Justice, Costs - Paradoxically, Firmly disclosure of taxable material in the past years, Electronic transactions, amendments to the Law. 4270/2014 and other provisions’]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS First we will discuss the second question with number 305/3-1-2017 in the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Miltiadis Varvitsiotis, to the Minister for Migration Policy, on the situation in the Moria Lesvos camp. The Minister for Migration Policy will answer Mr. Ioannis Mousalas. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for your prototype for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that we are debating today at the expense of the circumstances, the images and the complaints, which our country and the Government accepts for the inability to manage the refugee issue and the conditions currently prevailing in the Moria camp, seems to me to give a first-class opportunity to the Minister, first of all, to apologise to those people whose inability and inability to provide them with the basic living conditions, at least decent, with the minimum heating they can have, has led them to experience unprecedented and extreme conditions. It's not the government's fault because bad weather was invented. It is the government's fault that it has wasted hundreds of millions of euros at its disposal. It has been crushed without having made the minimum preparation for winter’s coming. It is not enough that he smuggled them, it is not enough that he left thousands of people living in scenes covered by the snow, under extreme conditions, but also had the courage a few days ago by the Minister himself in an interview to say: "What a good thing we have arrived to prepare the conditions throughout the country, so that thousands of immigrants and refugees who live in the camps do not face problems from the arrival of winter!" That's nerve! At some point, the Minister was upset because I called him a liar. On 5 January, Mr President, in an interview with him, he said exactly what I said before, namely that no immigrant will be left in the cold. And today we are discussing, a few days later, the images we see, for which our country has, of course, already been accepted by international complaints, either from the Community or from non-governmental organisations. They are typical of the statements made today by the doctors without borders. Mr President, I think that the government must act immediately, with the aim of ensuring the minimum human dignity of people, who are now entangled in its policy and its inability to the islands, while, at the same time, if the services of the state had worked properly, there are thousands of places in northern Greece in houses with heating, with good living conditions, where immigrants could have already been transported and which are still empty. Because it is not only those who live in Moria of Mytilini or the other Aegean islands in tents, which are thousands, as Mr Kritsis today confessed, and with cynicity. Yes, sir. on some morning show, but it's also the fact that there are thousands of vacancies in northern Greece. And the fact that neither asylum procedures nor the procedures of clearing up between refugees and those who deserve protection and those who have to return back to the countries from which they came, the delays in the last few months, for which the government is already on the table, have led these people to risk their own lives. We are waiting for the Minister's replies, although I think that any assurance now comes out of the government's lips and from him personally cannot be taken seriously, since none of the assurances he has given so far has unfortunately been implemented.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u5	I would like to make it clear to you that I am not upset at what you say, because they lack seriousness, they are deprived of the problem and they lack knowledge of the problem. So I can only treat you as someone who consciously tries to create problems that already exist or as someone who speaks because he does not know. I would like to remind you that you are one of the people who is not good enough to talk about complaints, because you are burdened with things that I think he cannot have made Minister of Greek Government. But you're bored, Mr. Varvichiotis. People have memory! As regards what you said, first of all the situation on the islands is very bad. Our teams are upstairs and they're trying to lighten it and we're gonna do it. Secondly, I never said that the extinction on the islands was over. If you read the interviews, if you are bothering, in addition to your colleagues who underline you, read what I say and what I do, you will see that I have said that we have performed a feat: Fifty thousand people in the hinterland are all in houses heated and in hotels. I also said that, unfortunately, the situation on the islands is very bad. It is very bad, Mr Varvitsiotis, because your party on the islands played a very strange role. It has blocked government proposals since September. Since September we have worked for the islands and proposed an extension of the accommodation space to make the conditions better. You refused them. Your officers were released in newspapers, protested. We have proposed - for God's sake - enclosed areas, detention centres. You refused. What did you suggest? Your officials have suggested that we move them all to Greece, that the Europe-Turkey Agreement should stop. If anyone needs to commit to this House today, it's you! Do you want the Europe-Turkey Agreement? Do you want to fix the conditions there? Do you want to build new spaces? You want the closed centers? That's where you have to commit! Or would you let populism drag you here and there? Finally, I would like to say that the situation on the islands is very bad. The government has tried to solve it since November. Unfortunately, populism prevailed, based on a real tiredness of the islands. I call again on islanders to help create better spaces for these people to stay without ruining the Europe-Turkey Agreement. I can tell them again that they have fallen victim to a propaganda, which says the immigrants should leave. I say to them again that if immigrants leave, the Europe-Turkey Agreement is over and last year's flows will begin, two and a half thousand, three thousand, seven thousand a day. Finally, closed detention areas must also be made for those who are wrongful and for those who block asylum. These things we tried to do, in agreement with local government. There, yes, we didn't make it. We will do it in the next few months, regardless of the positions of local government. Nevertheless, I call on the islanders to understand. I would like to say to you and remind the islanders of the economic exchanges, the VAT, which was a permanent request I supported from the outset. I would like to tell you, Mr Varvitsiotis, that there is not a single lie in the migration that the government has said. There are mistakes, there are difficulties, but there is not a single lie. On the contrary, in two minutes, you succeeded and you said too much lies.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u6	Here, Mr Varvitsiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u7	Look, Mr President, I will compare the names of the Minister for Immigration. I will contrast them because his statements describe him in the eyes of the Greeks: 'No refugee and immigrant are anymore cold', Thessaloniki, January 5th.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u8	You're lying!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u9	You said it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u10	Read the interview and not what your partners gave you!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u11	In Greek you assured last April that everyone will leave and they're still in tents!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u12	You're lying! You're lying!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u13	They're in tents! With your own statements.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u14	You're lying!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u15	I'm reading your statements.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u16	You're lying about the interview.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u17	Minister, you have a second one, please. Here you go, Mr. Varvichiotis, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u18	I read the statements from 'left.gr'. You don't know what you're saying, Minister. Not only do you know what you're doing, but you don't know what you're saying. You have confirmed last April that you will be emptying the Greek. You, not me! If you want to talk about the responsibilities that exist, seven and a half thousand people have lost their lives in the Mediterranean with your policy this year. This year! Be very selfish when you leave little suspicion! Be very selfish! Because you have the responsibility of these thousands of people, your policy! Because here there was a Minister of Government, who said, "they are swept away."
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u19	It's all the same again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u20	And today there is a Minister of Government who says'retire'. That's the image you've created. If you have not come to the establishment of closed detention centres, you are solely responsible for your ideas that have kept you. When there were, go and protest and say: “Open them. It is unacceptable that the 'Amgdales' is modern Dahau. What's Moria today? Is it Dachau? How do you want me to characterize it? For these statements, your populism has led to this situation. Your false promises led the islanders to these extreme behaviors. They're not motivated by any opposition. We're not in the protests. We are not the ones who motivate events, popular mobilisations, as you have done in the past. We are seriously trying to stand up and continue to call on you for transparency in the management of money, for efficiency in the management of money. Can you not tell us that in centres that you organised last April, in November, you decided by emergency procedures to give direct assignments to heating bodies because of the emergency needs - which are what? - the coming of winter. When did you build a proper detention center? When? When did you set his commander transparently? When did you make a regulation of operation? Never. When did you even make a minimum financial statement for the hundreds of millions of dollars available - unlike all previous governments - for what infrastructure and how did you build them and how do you maintain them? Unfortunately, Minister, you may have all the good intentions, but you and your Government are also characterised as a whole by inability to manage the size of the problem. The number of 60,000 has been available since April. Nine months have passed, and unfortunately neither the living conditions have been created, nor the operating mechanism for the asylum committees have been completed. It's your responsibility. You set up new committees to which, Mr President, the secretaries, who are required under the law of Mr Musala, are officials of the Ministry of Migration Policy, are not given, and it is impossible for them to function. The Asylum Service has now been set up with more than seven hundred employees. But it does not work the way it should and there is a risk through this non-operation - what Mr Muzalas said before - precisely because they see that no one goes back to Turkey, that the procedures here do not work, that the European Union - Turkey's agreement should begin to collapse, not with the Turkish people's responsibility, but with the responsibility of the Greek Government, which did not make it work in the years that were planned.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u21	Mr. Comrade, you're in six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, I should like to conclude by saying this: I would like to ask the Minister to abstain from easy accusations and not to blame the responsibility for his inappropriateness in opposition and to do what he has undertaken and sworn to do, to govern, to take decisions, rather than, unfortunately, roaming from a channel to a channel and saying 'you know, I did not do everything, unfortunately I was not so prepared' and one was to blame him for it. The ministers are to take responsibility and not to comment. It is for them to make decisions, even if they are difficult, even if they are in conflict with what they have said in the past, against the closed detention centres, of which they are now calling for the consent of the Opposition to fix them. You have it, Mr. Muzala.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u23	We don't have it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u24	You have it, Mr. Muzala. It's been in our place for so long. Please do. We challenge you to do it. Unfortunately, you will also be faced with your own statements, but also with the statements by all the SYRIZA officials of all previous years, for all that I have said to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u25	Minister, you have the floor. If possible, we can keep the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u26	Mr President, I take advantage of the fact that you are presided over to tell you that in my view Potami has fallen a victim of misinformation. He received an announcement that we've banned the photographs on Moria. That's not true. Since the morning, they've been coming in, they've been taking pictures, they're coming out and all that. I'm just trying to figure out that you're the president.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u27	It has nothing to do with my presidency today. You are presenting it to Parliament as an observation, respected in all respects.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u28	I'm tabling this as clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u29	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u30	Now look, the same things are said every time: the use of money, Tasia Christodoulou and the others that are melting, epidemics that will fall and break out, fires, oppression and all that. It's tiring and it doesn't drive anywhere. We take the responsibility - and as a government - for the situation in hot spots, which is bad. I'm telling you again that we tried to walk along with local government. We found the reaction of local government and the reaction of the New Democracy at local level. I am very grateful to Mr Metarakis and Mr Athanasios for their excellent work.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u31	This is the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u32	Please! This is not the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u33	They represent the New Democracy in the House, they are MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u34	I'm on it. Untreated. We've done a wretch that's never been through your mind. We received a thousand posts. We built fifty thousand inland places. They're all in houses, hotels with heating. We have taken responsibility for the islands, and we have said what is being delayed. You go from one theme to the other. Asylum mechanism. You had three hundred people in the asylum. The asylum is currently negotiating and working with relocation, returns, willing returns, agreement, asylum. We've reached the seven hundred fifty. We're going to raise it. We already have a hundred in the islands. In my interview - from which you only read what you wanted - I said that the islands will be decongested from March. We have moved from the islands as vulnerable to more than four thousand. The islands have seen the improvement. The resistance of society, which is based on the fatigue they have suffered and also on the fact that they have suffered, in our view, in populist jewels. The populist jewels were yours. I'm happy to accept and I'd like...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u35	Do you have them in Greek tents, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u36	Leave the Greek.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u37	Mr. Varvichiotis, please. But it's not possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u38	Leave the Greek, I said it in my interview.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u39	But are you talking about populism?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u40	Ask me a question about the Greek. We'll answer. But listen a little to the islands...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u41	Let us answer a question in good time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u42	I'm all here and I'm answering. I answer your question perfectly validly. You're lying again. On the 5th of the month you filed it in the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u43	How many others we don't testify?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u44	There's not a question I'm in Greece and not come to answer. You're lying one more time. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u45	How many others. I'm waiting to see.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u46	Please! On the 5th day of the month you tabled your question and we are answering today.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u47	How many others you haven't answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u48	Please, Mr. Varvichiotis. I'm moving on and I'm saying again. Do you accept, first, that we must defend the agreement? We'll do it. Do you accept that we need to create better conditions with new spaces? We'll do it. So far, you have reacted. Do you accept a closed center in Mytilini, Samos, Chios? We'll do it. So far you haven't accepted them. Everything else is cheap demagogy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u49	You made it open. It was closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u50	Mr. Varvichiotis, if possible! There's no question of keeping half an hour.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u51	You're lying again. You didn't have anywhere, only in Mytilini, the Ice. The pancake did well and closed. We're talking about different things. We are talking about facilitating asylum and hitting off offense. You're talking about deterrence. These are two different things. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the next colleagues and ministers to have a real contact with time. It can't be a question that lasts half an hour. So we won't get anywhere. Please very much. Next is the first with number 307/4-1-2017 appropriate question for the first cycle of the Parliamentary Corinth of the Radical Left Coalition to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity regarding the community centres of the Peloponnese Region. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr. Theanos Fotou. Mrs. Thalerite, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u53	Minister, my question concerns the diversification of the Peloponnese Region towards the creation of community centres. Despite the clear specifications of community centres as laid down by the KYA FEK 854 30-32016, the Peloponnese Region creates five community centres in the prefecture of Corinthia, the capital, i.e., the communication of the Peloponnese Region and a mobile unit per regional unit. This differentiation took place, firstly, with the total absence of effective consultation with the mayors and even expresses this by common letter from the mayors to your Ministry on 29-9-2016. Secondly, this differentiation alters the planning of the Ministry, which provides for the creation of structures in the municipalities of more than ten thousand inhabitants, with the main beneficiaries of OTA I grades, and even creates, we would say, a One-Stop Service, which is where the citizen can use, so that he has any information about any programme or service carried out at regional level and at the same time interconnects with the municipal social service or other services that will pursue social policy at local level. For example, it can be informed of the minimum guaranteed income, the ETVA, the humanitarian crisis, employment and similarly interconnected. It is also clear that, as you have designed the community centres, according to the national mechanism that we recently voted on, their interconnection is with grade I rather than grade II. This means that they are coming to strengthen, in a sense, the social services of the municipalities which are still working - and we know it very well - and are under-represented. Unfortunately, the Peloponnese Region is subject to and interconnected with the 2nd degree, and indeed with the Social Insurance Department of the Peloponnese Region and the beneficiary is the partnership between the municipalities and the region, i.e. by means of a programme contract. Thirdly, it deprives us, from the municipalities and resources and staff, and at a time when they are very critical and that these resources are extremely useful, as are scientific staff. In particular, the programme contract proposed by the Peloponnese Region provides for an amount of EUR 367,200, as opposed to the Ministry which provides for EUR 736,000. With regard to scientific staff, it provides for six people, i.e. five people, scientific staff plus the mobile unit driver, while the Ministry provides thirteen staff. So the proposal of the Peloponnese Region, to conclude, was not accepted by the mayors, as has been announced by both the mayors and the meeting with the region on 19-9-2016. In addition, it is confirmed in writing by the express statement by the mayor of Corinths that he is not going to sign this programme agreement. I therefore ask you how you intend to deal with the fact that the Peloponnese Region is moving by way of derogation from the policies of your Ministry for Social Integration and by way of derogation from the existing institutional framework for community centres, jeopardising the implementation of the project in the Peloponnese Region. Secondly, I ask you what measures you intend to take to ensure that the municipalities in the Peloponnese Region do not deprive themselves of these resources, which are very important and which will help to strengthen the social services of the municipalities at a time when our citizens are experiencing poverty and social exclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u54	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u55	Madam President, I would like to make a retrogression of what has happened and how the problem has arisen in the Peloponnese Region before I finally tell you, in the second part of my reply, what we intend to do. Because the people of the Peloponnese must also know that we have exhausted every means to prevent what happened in the Peloponnese Region. As you may know, in 2014, in view of the implementation of the NRP 2014-2020, it has been established that the funds of the European Social Fund - the ESF - are now allocated exclusively to the regions and not, as it has been until then, to the state, and that from then on, with specific regional social inclusion strategies - the PESC, that is, - the regions are directing funds to the municipalities that are the beneficiaries of these actions. We, when we came to the Ministry in 2015, found no plan, as you know, on the NSRF 2014-2020. We sat down with Mr. Haritsis and planned the NSRF, the Social Fund, I mean all poverty structures, etc. We have taken note of this to the attention of the specialised PESK, that is to say, the regional social integration strategies of each region. We have therefore proposed to all regions, which we have repeatedly brought to the Ministry and Athens, an integrated plan of actions both for social poverty structures and for an innovative action, the one you mentioned, the community centres. We did a very long consultation, I have to tell you, from November 2015 to January 2016, and we ended up in all the regions - and the twelve - on the one hand, because the regional director in the Peloponnese Region actually insisted that community centres should not be set up but in the five regional capitals, that is to say, from the twenty-one municipalities he agreed to create only five. [[The end of the speaking time of Mrs. Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Then, as you can see, a major problem was created for the remaining sixteen municipalities. What happened then? In order to find a solution, we sent a first letter - which I submit in the Minutes - to the twenty municipalities of the Peloponnese, where we were telling them in detail what we intend to do, how much each community centre costs. Within this letter, which I present to you, we say that the small community centre is budgeted at EUR 37,440 per year, that is, for municipalities of between 10 and 40 thousand inhabitants, EUR 57,600 per year for municipalities of between 40 and 100 thousand and EUR 74,880 per year for municipalities of between 100 and over. Similarly, they are composed of two people, three of them and four of them, the three categories I have told you. Amongst the other things, of course, we have told them in this letter that I am tabling what very large, important actions will be taken by these community centres. For example, Mr President, these days, in January, the Social Income of Solidarity will be opened. This will be done by community centres as soon as they are staffed throughout the territory. From now on, all citizens of the country will go to community centres for getting information about anything that concerns them in terms of poverty, at Roma level. They are structures for mothers, they are structures for children, they are a multi-tool, one stop shop we say, with all the information of the Ministry of Labour within a platform, in a system that pays the Ministry and will give it free of charge to all municipalities. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister, Mr Theanos Fotou, submits for the minutes the above letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Result...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u56	Minister, should we leave the rest for dentology?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u57	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u58	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u60	Mrs. Thalerite, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u61	The problem is: How to deal with this derogation, created in the Peloponnese Region, where the municipalities will ultimately have more than ten thousand community residents than the five regional capitals. Therefore, a differentiation is created in relation to the rest of Greece and this will have great consequences so that the citizens of the Peloponnese Region do not receive the privileges, i.e. being able to go and learn about what is happening in their municipality or their prefecture. Therefore, the Ministry should see how it will deal with this derogation, since, as we all know, the social services of the municipalities - and because of the crisis - are subordinated and operate with a minimum scientific capacity. So community centres would be an injection, that is to say, a strengthening of the social services of the municipalities, so that they can cooperate in social policy at local level. So we would like to see what measures you will take so that there is no such difference in the Peloponnese and Corinthian Region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u62	Thank you very much, my colleague. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u63	So, Mrs Ewing, things are happening as follows: Immediately after all this consultation, we receive letters from all the municipalities in the Peloponnese, which I shall be tabling. Finally, we send to the district manager on January 21, 2016, a letter in which we put eighteen municipalities - Loutrakios, Ekalia, Pavlos - Nestor, Monemvassia, Tripoli, Trifyria, Xylokastro, Corinthians, Messini, Sykionia, Nafplies, Sparta, Velos, Ermionidos, Argos, East Mani and Kalamata - who say they want to become community centers and disagree with the decision of the district manager. I am therefore tabling all the relevant documents on this. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister, Mr Theanos Fotio, presents for the minutes the letters referred to above, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] There's no response after this whole thing. And Mr Patoulis, as President of the CEDEFOP, that is to say all the municipalities of Greece, comes and pleads for all the municipalities of the Peloponnese. So I put this in the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister, Mr Theanos Fotio, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Thereafter, no consensus. As we were obliged, we could not delay the NRPs throughout Greece, because the Regional Governor of Peloponnese did not consent, and we sent the proposal of the twelve regions throughout Greece, together with the proposal of the Peloponnese Regional Director, unitary, to the European Union, as we were supposed to, because we had no other possibility. The European Union has approved the thirteen regions, as they had been sent. From there on, as if not all of this had happened, as you know, we have voted on these community centres in January 2016 - and they are state law anymore - and we sent a message to the Region that we must proceed with programming contracts with the municipalities and that the municipalities must take responsibility for the operation of a community centre. The district ruler sent an extrajudicial to the Ministry by denouncing the relevant law - the law passed by the parliament and implemented by the twelve regions - as illegal. So far, there has been nothing specialising in the treatment of poverty, because it is not just the centres of the community, Mrs Theleritis, but the rest too. The invitation to the five community centres in the five capital cities has only recently emerged and the invitation from the region to the region itself. In other words, the region itself invites itself to create a regional structure which will serve all municipalities. [[The end of the speaking time of Mrs. Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Look, we understand that the district minister can have this view and want to do this policy. Of course, we are not going to leave the municipalities, as today, particularly, these days, in the Ministry, we are addressing very great complaints and calls in order to do something. So we're going to do something again, Mrs. Thalerite. In other words, we will find a solution with Mr. Haritsis so that all the municipalities of the Peloponnese acquire the community centres, which must have equal status, like all the municipalities of Greece. No one doubts that we will. We will do so by the co-financed, with the money that the State has now. That is what we will move on and have no doubt. No one can be above the interests of the citizens and in the interests of the municipalities, as they genuinely express it. Thank you again for your question and for the opportunity to answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers for Tourism, Foreign Affairs and Finance and the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs tabled a draft law on 22-12-2016: "Structuring the Memorandum of Understanding for Cooperation in the Tourism Sector between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt". In addition, the Ministers of Finance and Justice, Transparency and Human Rights submitted a draft law on 27-12-2016 on ‘Additional audit of the annual and consolidated financial statements, public oversight of the audit work and other provisions’. They shall be referred to the competent Standing Committees. Also, I would like to inform you that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Article 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 "Prime Responsibility of Ministers", as is the case, on 30-12-2016, a criminal case for the former Deputy Minister of Finance, Tryphoon Alexiadis. Also, on 5-1-2017, he forwarded a criminal case law concerning the Minister of Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos and the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Pavlos Polakis, and, secondly, a criminal case law concerning the former Minister of National Defence Mr. Ioannis Papantoniou. Series is the third with number 308/4-1-2017 appropriate question for the first cycle of the MP Argolida of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Manniatis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs regarding the devaluation of the Greek public university. Will the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs reply Mr. Gavroglou Mr. Maniatis, you have the floor for your prototype for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u65	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, in the past few days, you have created a huge inconvenience to thirty thousand young people in our country. I am talking about the approximately thirty thousand young people attending postgraduate courses in the about eight hundred postgraduate degrees present in Greek AEI and TEI. I'll say more specifically what you've done. With a circular issued by the Ministry, you have actually removed in an indirect, side but clear way 25% of the revenues of the postgraduate programmes, which are the tuition fees of the children they pay, from the management of the specific research funds, which has so far been done and instructed the pre-eminents to take it into the regular budget, essentially to be used for other needs, but not for the needs of postgraduate programmes, for which children have paid tuition fees. In other words, and in a very clear way, you are trying to fill the underfunding gap in undergraduate studies, privatising money from the child's pocket, from the tuition fees they have paid in order to have high-level postgraduate programmes, and transfer them to the regular budget. This is the first time, Minister. Despite the fact that all the last years of the recession, which the Greek economy has experienced, we have had a constant underfunding of Greek education, it is the first time that the Ministry has taken an indirect hand in the money of the graduate students and asks the students to draw them into the ordinary budget. What are you going to do now with what you're doing. Firstly, you make a true confession that expenditure on undergraduate studies is being reduced in education. Secondly, in a hypocritical way, in real terms, we are told by a number of lawyers, and it is said by the President-in-Office, the Rectors' Conference, in a non-legal manner, that you are taking money away from the special accounts of the research funds and taking the money to the ordinary budget. Finally, there is an indirect - I hope unintentional - deception of the children of their own postgraduate programmes and their families who pay tuition fees to have high-level postgraduate studies. There are various interpretations why you do it. One interpretation is that you are trying to fill the internal political gap in SYRIZA, which while you are pushing no tuition fees, you are indirectly saying "children, some of the tuition fees are taken and put them in the state budget". I hope that all this, which is open to the thousands of teachers in the Greek universities and to the tens of thousands of postgraduate students in our country, with the reply you will give us, will be taken back and in reality we will return to this regime, which is legal status, a status of merit, a status of transparency in the management of the money of children attending postgraduate studies and, finally, a system of support for the largest wealthy resource that the country has and are the minds of our young people who learn better and more letters in the Greek universities and TEIs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u67	Mr. Maniatis, I am not used to you crowns and I think phrases like "we deceived their students and families", really not to be words that you mean them. I'm saying this because I don't think you're well informed about this 25%. Look at what's going on. The universities themselves decide the percentage of teachers from postgraduate, which will go for university operational needs. That goes to the special bills. Now there's a little irrationality in the universities. They are used for the same things money, which come from different sources. This is what we have tried to rationalise, since 25% - even 50% - can go up to 50% - can be for operational needs. However, not all suggestions apply. I do not want to pre-empt decisions which will be announced at the special meeting of the regulators, which will take place on Saturday, which is coming to us, on 14 January, where we will present a comprehensive plan, not only on postgraduate but also on the subject of registration fees. What happened is also under the 2014 law. Nothing special happened. However, what is very important and must be stressed - you mentioned the number, 800 - as a serious element of the pathogens, is precisely that there have been too many postgraduate and I am very afraid most of them have not been in vain academic terms. So our aim - and I call on you to this objective - is to say, what arrangements will guarantee academicity and enhance quality. Such problems - which I insist are within the framework of Law4310 - have absolutely no role to play in the overall management of money. And something we have said in the budget as well, and I say it now, for the first time in six years, the budget for education has increased. It has increased by 5%, but for the first time it is not declining and there is even this small increase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr. Maniatis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I really would like to hope that you meant what you said, because I appreciate your course so far. But now listen to us being informed. You take the tuition money, which until now manages the postgraduate themselves through the special account of research funds and tell them that this will no longer apply - that is, the flexible procedure, the coverage of operating expenses, the coverage of travel, the coverage of publications - and I will take it to the most difficult, which is the part of the regular budget, where there is something from the back, which I am sure you have not thought about. Do you know that if this money is not used, the state budget is being drawn up and added to the country's surplus? On the contrary, if you leave them where the law imposes, this money is not lost by the universities. You have been recommended to say that what is happening with the circular is legal. Minister, I have here in my hands an opinion from a university legal office saying that it is completely illegal and that if you wanted to take this money, you should go to legislation. Check the legality of the circular with your legal services. You'll see it's illegal and you know why it's illegal? Because the 2008 Act, which defines how postgraduate programmes operate, clearly stipulates that 25% through special accounts, i.e. in a flexible way, will go only for what children have paid for, namely postgraduate ones themselves. No one has given anyone the right to use this money for other purposes. I now come to what you said, Minister. Because you have a very serious academic course, we must also consult in this House and in something else. Whether we accept that the long, heavy hand of the state, every time it intervenes in the self-sufficiency of universities, damages and let the universities work as all modern institutions work in the developed world, or grant the right to every bureaucrat of the Ministry of Education, decides in spite of the will of the Presidents, the congresses and the councils. So if we want to make use of the human potential of the Greek universities, we must fully respect their self-interest. The only thing that the Ministry can do and it would be useful is not to intervene in themselves in the activities of postgraduate students, but to define criteria that are horizontal, transparent and universally applied, which will see whether they are applied. But finally, we should stop this intervention by ad hoc - as appropriate - and without any single criterion being applied to postgraduate programmes from the various universities. If you make a decision and discuss with the horizontal criteria that are neutral, it is obvious that not only I but all the wings of the House will support you. On the contrary, if you intervene on a case-by-case basis, then we will be across, Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u70	He has the floor now...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u71	Mr President, if I may just add this. The total cost of tuition, which children pay for postgraduate school, is about EUR 60 million per year. Furthermore, Minister, I imagine that you do not claim the role of acquainted with everything so that you decide whether or not you or anyone in here, if a postgraduate or not, is useful. There is the senate, there are the students who choose it or do not choose it, and there is the society that assesses it itself and prefers it or does not prefer it. That's the only way we can work properly. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u72	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u73	Unfortunately, Mr Maniotis has said a lot of what I wanted to say, so I consider that to be very positive in the following sense, Mr Maniotis. The first thing we're going to say at the Fellowship Summit is that universities and TEI will decide themselves on the course of graduates, academics and economics, but take note, in a context like you said, of the state, which defines a framework, not an intervention framework, which determines the rules of the game. And you know, we can't accept these unacceptably high-teachers. It is not right, because we also have the decision of the Council of State which forbids them. On the other hand, my personal opinion - but also politically - is this: We prefer misconceptions to be made at universities and TEIs and to be controlled by society, rather than to begin a poorly understood state or the sovereignty of the Ministry of Education, which should have an opinion on all issues, especially when these issues and academics are concerned. So we must agree - and I take it from the point of view that we will have your agreement, when we move on and I think we shall also consult the Committee on Morphic Affairs with the Members - a role like this in the universities. Universities themselves should be much more responsible, because I tell you not only with all honesty but also with emphasis that there can be no tuition fees, no registration fees, if there are no costs for any postgraduate, and most of the costs have been incurred on the knee we are talking about. So here, too, we must also consult with many colleagues. I'm just finishing up with what you said. You know, it's legal what we did and it's legal, because Mr.4310 says that this money is being given for operational needs too. Of course, by giving out of a fund for the purposes of the other and the needs of the other, the purpose of the initial registration fee is too often altered. That is why we need universities from the outset to be clear and the sums they use and where they will use these amounts and the other people know, when they go to the postgraduate school, what the registration fee is to give where they go. I think that a huge proportion must be to upgrade postgraduate's own. And upgrades to the same postgraduate does not mean - I stress it - an additional, even small, enrichment, to the minimum while university teachers. University teachers are social workers and there are too many things that at the current juncture they are invited to offer to universities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Minister. The first question will be discussed under number 306/3-1-2017 of the new Republic MP Kilkis Georgios Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs on the relocation of TEI Kilkis to a new building. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr President. I wish for a good and productive year to everyone. Minister, it is not a question of relocation to a new building but, in essence, of financing the relocation to the newly finished building. As you well know, in Kilkis has been operating for many years, at the beginning as an annex to the "Alexandreio" TEI of Thessaloniki and then as an annex to the TEI of Central Macedonia, the Investment Technology Planning Department, a section which, despite the adverse circumstances in which it operated, managed and has moved the interest of students, has brought very good results to competitions in which it participated and has great absorption, absorption, labour absorption, students who are celebrity students of this department. It was created, built years ago by co-financing from the Third Community Framework for Stability - imagine how old we're talking about - a building complex of five and a half thousand square meters in order to house this section. The building of this building went through many adventures, as there was a bad contraction. Then there was the "ATHENA" project where we changed administratively and no longer were allocated to the "Alexandrio" TEI of Thessaloniki, but after many adventures and the assistance of many people, the previous Deputy Minister of Education, Mr. Anagnostopoulou, with an amendment he accepted, decided to transfer this building to the TEI of Central Macedonia in the typical sense of the term. That's done. The final acceptance, with some minor reservations, was made, but in essence what was required of that piece of legislation of your Government, was essentially accepted. What remains, Minister, is to fund... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u76	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u77	There is now a need for funding for the relocation of equipment from the place where the TEI operates to date in the new building. The first operating expenses are needed and, of course, in a second year, there is the need to increase the annual funding to the Central Macedonia TEI as you can see that it will now be increased. Minister, we need to resolve this problem for three reasons. The first is, on the basis of your institutional obligation to help the educational community of Kilkis to exploit such a wonderful space in order to be able to develop all the educational activity, as the area in which students are currently located is an OAED site, old space, with old rooms and certainly not the most appropriate one. Your second obligation is legal, as a ministry, because the project has been financed from European funds. It is a building designated as red and can at any time be checked and found not to work for the purpose for which it was financed. And your third obligation, Minister, is the service to the Kilkisiots, who have seen such a beautiful building which could be exploited literally for several years. Come to you, Minister, at the moment I think, the crucial moment for you to really help in the operation of new buildings. I think that the other issues are now unsolved and it is now up to you to find a way to fund this operation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u78	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Georgioda, you were kind enough to give me the photographs of the building and it is really a great grief to see in our country that there are buildings which, at least, seem exceptional - and I am sure it is - and be empty. In fact, I consider it unacceptable, regardless of which government it has a responsibility. We too have a percentage of this responsibility and previous governments. So we can do everything in our power to do that. But be careful now. At least until the day before yesterday, January 4, the services told me - and may have been wrong, but I tried to check it out - that the two institutions, namely Thessaloniki and the administration of the TEI, have not been consulted, because one has not given much time to the other etc., and Thessaloniki, which owned the building, has submitted the keys to the Ministry of Education, which will now give them to TEI Kilkis. You can now understand that, okay, there is also a problem of understanding between colleagues and the census of the system. Next, we may also make a mistake here, but we have no precise estimate of the costs of transporting the equipment. The reason I am saying this is that it is the institution that has this responsibility, but we must really try - and I commit to it - to find what is possible so that at least one such building of this quality, which I see, and especially when the children leave the existing situation, can function as quickly as possible. I would therefore ask you - and I will do - to take the corresponding steps, to see what the cost is, and, in any case, to contribute. I am sure that it is not unsurpassed, but let us look at it practically so that we can do the corresponding actions. There's something else, it's the general theme of TEIs and universities at the same time. I am not saying that we should go to "Athena 2", "ATHENA 3", and all of this, because anyway, even for "ATHENA" is rather negative. However, what I would like to say - and I say one that you are interested in higher education - is to convince our colleagues in the universities and in the research centres to start talking to each other, to see what kind of joint projects can be done, to see what synergies can be done, what common applications can be made, how can we share such infrastructures in other institutions, which may be needed. And on this, I really would ask you to contribute. That doesn't mean either that the other one's closing or opening etc. It is a course of a single space where, in the single area, the different institutions will not lose their personality, but they will discuss with each other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Georgiod, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u81	I will keep your good intention of addressing this as given and welcome. To tell you this: Unfortunately, at some point, I have come to be the mediator between the two institutions. Is that not at all a pleasant thing, but, you know, right now, the difference is economic, that is, there is a stress - logical to a certain point - from Alexandria TEI of Thessaloniki that says "we why should we continue to pay for the preservation or any other operating expenses?" There is a stress - and this is reasonable - on the part of the Central Macedonia TEI, which says'some things that need to be done and corrected and they need money, how do we take them as we do not have them and now the building is delivered to us'. They are reasonable issues which, however, I think, because they are small - I have a full picture of the situation - can be resolved. What I want to tell you is that there is also the written desire or rather the intention of the Central Macedonia TEI to transfer to Kilkis one of the sections that operate in Serres, so that a school can be created to make it truly operational for all this great building, which someone who understands is too much for just one section, but there is the written commitment and intention from the Central Macedonia TEI to create a good school. This building - and I would point out again the danger, Minister - can at any time be sought by the European Union, because it is not working and we have other adventures that I do not even want to mention. I believe that in an urgent way a priority should be given to this. We know the economic closeness, but there are a lot of issues here, and unfortunately they have been done more lately, because because of the seismic activity that has been in Kilkis lately, an ESAI building is inappropriate. The students must be transferred from there to the OAED building where students are currently housed, that is to say, to be able to liberate that building so that the PAAL students can go. So, it's a one-way road to make the process quick, so the students of the TEI can go to this new building. I think we'll have the pleasure of having you both at Kilkis and really see what facilities they're going for. We don't just want to maintain a TEI in a building that will be vast and not functional. There is the intention of both Kilkis and the residents, as well as the TEI of Central Macedonia, to take advantage of this building. I would ask, Minister, and I am at your disposal, that this be done as soon as possible and I want your commitment, if I may have it, that in the new school year - there are several months until then - we will be in the new building. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u83	You will have my commitment, Mr Colleague, to move the labs and find a solution. That's the first. But I would also like to see your commitment so that we can get colleagues to talk to each other. One is nervous, the other is uncertain, the third does not consider that the other institution's efforts to move is honest. I don't think these things should come here. These must be resolved between the institutions and there is indeed a question of financial aid. Let's see that. The other thing, however, I would ask you not to make rapid moves about which part will go where. If we do not do that planned, there will continue to be a pathogen that has been done twenty-five or thirty years ago. We're not even responsible...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u84	This is an institution's internal decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u85	You know what? Each institution - and I mean that - can't imagine how many such requests it has brought. These will confuse even further an already problematic situation. Let us freeze things as they are, and let us enter into a debate on rationalisation of all these sections. There will be no one left on the job path. We guarantee that. Now, whatever it takes to rationalize, it really needs to be, but we're not going to get sloppy and hasty. Let's see it when it's time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, from what we have been informed in the Bureau by the Secretary of Government Michalis Kalogerou, the fourth with number 309/4-1-2017, the first time question from the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Diamantos Manolakos Manolakos to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the Greek Sugar Industry, will not be debated as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development, Mr Alexandros Khritsis, because of the unsettled obligations of the Minister. We have also been informed of the questions that are being discussed or already under way. Next is the second with number 310/4-1-2017 appropriate question by the Member of Parliament, Aetolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the problems in the accommodation of students at the University of Epirus. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. This question about the Arta TEI, Minister, could well be called a question that has become a bridge of Arta, because unfortunately it comes to answer - not on your own responsibility, but on the government - after months. Since the beginning of the school year we have come to the middle of the school year to answer this question. Minister, the Communist Party of Greece once again brings to Parliament the great problems faced by the Epirus TEIs and especially the Arta TEI. In the previous question we had asked some time ago, we had mentioned the major deficiencies in teaching staff and administrative staff. Of course, at that time your predecessor had answered that the problem would be solved. Unfortunately, this was not the case. There are still frights. That is why there have also been mobilisations some time ago. But where problems are really explosive are in matters relating to student housing. Indeed, not only are there explosives, but several children are left out who meet these criteria. It is important because there are only seventy - eight rooms where there are a hundred fifty students, when at Arta's TEI are about two and a half thousand students. This results in some who really deserve it, even on the basis of these criteria - we say that it must be free access to all the children of the people's families - who are rejected. And don't tell me, Minister, that in recent years some freshmen entered. They simply came in because some people didn't get in from the beginning, or they did and closed rooms, and I don't know if some even left their studies. We consider this problem to be too serious and particularly hitting the children of the people's families. Because even through the capitalist economic crisis there are thousands of families who may have been able to respond to these needs of their children's studies, but today they cannot respond. And we ask you, Minister, in particular: What measures will you take to find rooms for students at Arta TEI - and not only - but also throughout the country? The most important thing, especially in Arta, is whether the procedures will be initiated, if there is to be the building of the study centre that has been inaugurated for some time, but the problem still exists. Minister, we need concrete answers, because the problem is really very serious and these families are dealing with it. Minister, this is what I want you to understand - and you are obviously aware - that some students have even stopped their studies. We also had fainting of a student, who then entered school. But we come to such phenomena today, because unfortunately education is profoundly classic, raising barriers particularly for the children of the labourers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u89	Mr Mauritius, may I apologise on behalf of the Ministry for having delayed this answer. We're really gonna try to work a little faster. Apparently, he's badly delayed. You're right, so I don't start politicizing. What do I mean, you're right? At the moment there is a huge problem with regard to student care in all universities in all towns. It's a very serious social issue. I have no reason to doubt that there may be children who are certainly from people's families who risk not being able to complete or even to give up their studies. We are dealing with a problem that cannot unfortunately be solved in the short term. And as regards what you say about hotels and what you say about rooms, it is very complicated procedures and not just from the state side and you know it - I think - very well. But what I can tell you is this. We hope until June, until the end of this academic year, that we have a three-year plan for student care issues. The question of care cannot be solved in one way or another. Hoods are good, but they can't just be solved with new outbreaks. Hotel is fine, but it can't even solve the problem with hotels. So here it is an extremely complex problem, which requires multiple solutions. I hope that by June there will be a very structured and, above all, realistic solution to the question of student care. You know very well that it's not just the focal point. It's also the feeding thing. It is a set of issues, for some of which, as you know, there is a sinful past to some institutions, some homes, etc. This is not the time to analyse this sinful past, but to see how this thing will be solved in the long term. Now, for the rest you've told me, I'll tell you about the freshmen. Of the eighty-one we got the forty-two who's not a bad number. In fact, from the other hundred thirty - two, we got the hundred seven. But you know now, numbers have a way to read them. I don't call it an alibi. The problem is real. The problem is all over the country and it is a social problem that the state must tackle with serious programming. I hope in June I will be able to give you the specific elements of this programming. I'm sorry I can't say anything more, but that's the limit of the truth I can exhaust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u90	Mr Mauritius, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u91	Minister, we are keeping your commitment to June, but we do not want to create fraud. In this barbaric system of capitalism, unfortunately education is a mere commodity and it is unrelenting for the working people's families. Besides, what does the barbarity of this system prove? We really have cannibalism, anthropophagia. There were incidents at the Arta TEI and there was a dispute between the students, because some people said "go out" and in the end, Minister, you know, they stayed almost all out. We call it clear. What students in Arta are experiencing today is experienced by students and students throughout the country, because this is the result of this policy that you are implementing. It is the same anti-population policy that creates the problems for the families of these students and students. As I mentioned, it is suffocating the cuts, which are made both at TEIs and at TEIs. After all, we have an invasion of operations, especially at Arta's TEIs. Previously, there was also on the board of directors of the TEI businessman in the region. I also have to focus on another issue, which is of particular concern to us. It shows the reality and the ruins that this policy leaves. You know, Minister, that the Arta TEI operates a Department of Animal Production, in an area where livestock farming can really be developed to meet people's needs. We are talking about a production sector, in which we have huge shortages, and we are importing livestock products, leaving the country for billions. You know this Department of Animal Production has been downgraded, as has Traditional Music. That's where the major flaws are. Here we say clearly: is it not the direction of the European Union itself and the policy you and the other parties are serving, that, instead of developing livestock, students who could help this sector are now being left out? These problems are therefore huge and are the result of these policies. As I have told you, we have no illusions that problems will be solved, but we believe that the students themselves, the students, their families, the youth themselves must confront these policies that turn education into a commodity. We say clearly that they must fight for another policy that at its heart will have the education, the link between education and work, because this is important too. We have graduates who are undergraduate, who are unemployed passports. This is also evidenced by studies by the urban state itself, that the majority of jobseekers are in different objects from what they have studied. In other words, this is a very serious matter. We believe that this must be the case of the People's Movement itself, they must fight, they must claim the education of the people's needs, because otherwise we will have these results, Minister. You said something about feeding. Indeed, it is a big food problem and problems arise in many institutions of the country at times. After entrusting private food to some individuals, because they don’t get their money in time, they cut off the student’s feeding. We had a similar problem at the University of Patras in the sections based in Agrinio. For a long time the students stayed islands, Minister, because the restaurant that had the contract was closed because it was not paid by the public. We therefore say that a solution needs to be found that really answers these great problems of students and their families.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u92	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Mauritius, I have two comments to make. One comment relates to what you said, to the departments of the Arts TEI. You know, about whether a department is downgraded or not, of course, the state has many responsibilities, but it's not just the state. As long as the consciousness of the citizens of this country TEIs are not upgraded TEIs, they will continue to be the way they are today. Unfortunately, in the consciousness of our citizens, if a child goes to TEI is considered a failure. I don't believe this, but because you and I don't believe it doesn't mean the child doesn't receive this from society. So, a very basic factor in upgrading TEIs is how we, as political parties, as citizens, will convince other citizens about the importance of TEIs. Secondly, the focus issue you touched is indeed very complicated. Our view - and we will say it very systematically in these institutions - is that of feeding it to the institutions and providing the necessary credits, obviously, for the institutions to decide with the students, forums, etc., how they want to move forward. But look, there's something else and that's what I think we all have a responsibility. Do you know how much the ceiling is today for someone who can eat for free? It is 45,000 euros and if it is from a multitude of families it can go up to 50,000 euros. This is against the poor students, it's against the populace. I think, therefore, that we should all agree on a rationalized reduction in the ceiling so that those who really need it can be exploited and exploited in the current circumstances can be exploited and exploited. And in order to do this, I do not say that every university should be the same ceiling. There must be local differences. However, universities should make a fundamental decision if they want to pursue a fundamental social policy on the subject of focusing. Very soon we will have a very specific project on the focus issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Minister. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Monday 7 November 2016 have been distributed and the House is asking whether they have been ratified.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u95	The minutes of Monday 7 November 2016 were therefore validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-09-S1-commons.u96	With the consent of the House at 9.30 p.m., the sitting on Thursday, January 12, 2017, at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: topical questions.
