ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information: ‘Electronic system for the allocation of television advertising time, amendment of Law 3548/2007, establishment of a register of regional and local types, special marking of a bar code in printed publications, creation of an institutional framework for strengthening the production of audiovisual works in Greece and other provisions’. Please do not go down to six minutes, since colleagues have booked flights. We should respect that. Respect the seven minutes and not have to go down to six or five minutes. We'll start with Mrs. Vultesis, Member of the New Democracy. Mrs Vulture, you have the floor for seven minutes, as we have said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. And this piece of legislation shows that the government has a specific strategy: Attacking forward against visible and invisible enemies and ruthless retreat. To date, the Minister claimed the Minister's title with most anti-constitutional arrangements. In fact, with the previous regulation, it also caused the first conflict between the government and justice when Mrs Gerovas made that famous statement. Now what have we got here? We have a complete change in the bill, sixty legislative improvements, an amendment to the National Broadcasting Council and, essentially, complete compliance with the advertising proposals, as they have been formally tabled. We are talking about a text prepared by the advertisers themselves. I'm presenting them again for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Sophia Vultesis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So we see a hundred - eighty - degree turn. We see and hear the Minister say that improvements and changes were proposed by the National Broadcasting Council. Finally, in this country everyone else is legislating except for the House, except for the legislature. The PSE suddenly legislates, advertisers make suggestions and passes through the parliament. When we say that something is unconstitutional, the Members' opinion is not taken into account, as we have said from the very beginning. But when others bring it to you, then it immediately becomes unconstitutional your own legislation. You're telling us things. You obviously don't fight a grey zone, because you're actually putting the wolf on guarding the sheep. You continue to tell us that the Canadians did not pay for the previous years, while money was being paid. Anyway, if some money wasn't paid, why don't you collect it now? That's what I don't understand. Why do you not collect the money from previous years? We also know, of course, that we are now in front of a surrealist piece of legislation, where others say the explanatory memorandum and other legislation. We heard the President of Parliament yesterday say that we have had so many legislations in this time, these two weeks, because the evaluation has been delayed. So, you legislate on the basis of what the lenders tell you and you haven't legislated so long and we're almost there. Of course, you have retreated to everything, Minister. Of course you're trying to tell us now that your law applies, your old law on permissions. The truth is that your law was abolished whole, because it was based precisely on the transfer of powers from the National Broadcasting Council to the Minister. He had nothing else. What was important, in other words, was this law, in addition to the transfer of powers annulled by the Council of State and the opening of the tender, which was also cancelled in full? Now you celebrate because the PSE has decided seven permits instead of an unlimited number, which you accuse us of speaking. But you said four and that the Institute of Florence tells you. That's why you're not saying anything! And in any case, we don't even understand why the PSE says seven and it doesn't say eight or six. We have not seen any justification on the part of the PSE. I would also remind you that you also fought against the PSE after its formation, which you threatened to have civil, criminal, disciplinary responsibilities. You remember all this. I too believe that the PSE is currently under pressure, because you actually wanted to check the information at the beginning. You have abolished the ERT Supervisory Board, you have voted to limit licences, unacceptably for the digital era, you have taken advantage of the PPE, you have abolished all the independent authorities. There's nothing you didn't do to control the media. And now you've tried to control them financially, since you haven't done all the rest. The truth is that at the moment the only ones who serve are advertisers. There is no doubt about that. Minister, I would like to ask you this: we had legislated for direct invoicing, with Mr.4279/2014. When they are two traders, the law said that anyone who wants to be advertised goes to the person to whom he wants to be advertised, pays the price, pays taxes and is advertised. You have extended two and a half years to this law and you have never implemented it. Why didn't you do that? Because the advertisers didn't want this to happen when we institutionalised that regulation and you've served them for two and a half years now. You also pretend to be interested in the press and information. Of course, Mr Tsipras himself in January in Kalamaria told workers not to read newspapers to have their health! You are now saying that you are bringing in a provision with which you are saying that you will strengthen production. I have here all the evidence, which I shall be tabling on the Minutes, of the disaster that you have caused the Government two and a half years in the press, information and producers. If you see, they are elements of ELSTAT, which results in a decrease of 14.7% in the turnover index, in the production of films, in the first quarter of 2016, a decrease of 15.9% in the total sales of newspapers. I have them here, and I don't have time to read them. But let me put it out for the Minutes and let anyone else who wants to see it. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Sophia Vultesis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is clear from this that in 2014 we had a rise in all indicators, and since this inspired government came up, we have a fall every month of 15%, 20% in all turnovers, in newspapers, in the production of films, in the production of television broadcasts. You've booked channels. You're interested in the workers and they're all out of work! I would also like to say to you, the good thing that I want you to save the journalists' insurance funds, because there is no other solution, because then it will prove to be a great deal that advertisers, who have seized an area that has not belonged to them, have finally destroyed the journalists' insurance funds. The information space on your time has been completely destroyed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Mr President. Finally, Mr Pappa, I would like to ask you this: because your relationship with Venezuela and your plans have become known now. You had done it, Koliatsu - Pagrati. Because the 50 dead are almost 50, and because with the pajamas the secret police have transferred to Venezuela the Chiefs of Response to the detention camps, we would like from this Step to an official seat of your Government: Do you agree with the picture of pajamas grabbing the Mayor of Karakas and the party leader and dragging him into the cars, the secrets of the Venezuelan Police? I believe that the answer given by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is not enough. And since you have very close relations with them, we need an answer on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Vulture. Mr Georgantas, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for seven minutes. Please, Mr. Georgioda, keep the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is 4 August, and I see that the majority is trying here today to explain and justify the reason why this bill is coming. I think that efforts are unfortunate. There are no arguments why, on 4 August, a procedure which did not have the consultation it had to have in many parts of the bill, which did not have the publicity it should have, in which there was no hearing of all the bodies that had to be held, we come to legislate in theory to cover an urgent situation and a need. If one actually reads the explanatory statement, one will find that there are issues that need somehow to be regulated. But by reading the draft law, as before us today for a vote, we see that these urgent circumstances, these emergencies, this need for transparency has suddenly retreated. And what do I mean? It was understood - I think - by our rapporteur and by our parliamentary representative yesterday that, where we were talking about a mandatory framework in which advertising time was to be made available - a mandatory platform, we have now reached the disposal of advertising time through the platform, simply in a recording of this advertising time, on a platform that will record transactions. It's the day after night, Minister. And if anyone in the next period tries to see what the articles of the law say and what the explanatory statement says, I'm sure he won't be able to draw any conclusions. So it is certain that the sloppy legislation, which characterises a large number of the laws of this government, now comes to begin with a piece of legislation, which comes under an urgent procedure in a year that is not the most appropriate. And finally, we see that while it would be the harsh, decisive part of combating non-transparency in television media, we simply have a regulation that is lame in its constitutional context and the very object that is ultimately regulated and the regulable material that will be included in the context of these initiatives. So I think it would have been better - they told you, now obviously it is too late for you - to have withdrawn this particular bill so that we could see where it is to be done - if we have to do some interventions and have the PSE positions as well as not to have them submitted while the debate in plenary is beginning. But there, where you are also intervening - and I really do not understand why and I would like to hear your arguments - is in relation to the regulations for the regional press. The area, the framework for the regional press, was regulated - at least so we felt it - with whatever problems it had, but in general it was regulated. I do not know, and I would like you to tell me if you were disturbed by the institutions, which represent the regional press about the need for the arrangements you bring. There are too many issues which I think will eventually create suffocation conditions for the existing regional instruments, which have endured throughout the time of the crisis. At the same time, however, they will create conditions and opportunities for apologies stars to appear in the publication of newspapers in the regional press, with a view to the forthcoming regional and municipal elections. The minimum traffic limit - you know - for the regional press means nothing. It is a fictitious size, which is influenced by too many factors. We have issues to do with the virtual image of the real population of a region. They are regions in the region, which appear to have an alpha population, but much of them have migrated. They simply come when the census takes place and they do well to come when the census takes place, but this dynamic part of the population, which also buys the newspaper, whether it has been resurrected or located in the urban centers to find a job. So it's fictitious the size that is presented in the census. At the same time, it is not taken into account that for long periods, such as the period of great bad times, we had in winter, in Kilkis, in the villages of Kilkis, no newspaper went for twenty days. Kilkis, according to the latest census, has just 80,400 people. In the summer season there is also a very large part of the population. So how am I going to keep this minimum daily circulation on an annual basis? I think you should find other elements so that there are really objective criteria for a newspaper to be entitled to the privileges which, based on its circulation, the state can give it. Regional instruments must be treated as a pillar not only of development, but also of culture and information for the province. In many villages it is the only instrument that goes and informs the residents of all activities and activities, and I think that, once it had not been requested, this particular arrangement should not have been made, and so I repeat that in particular in the six-month period, which is planned for the release of a newspaper, it makes this regulation very suspicious and I would ask that it be changed as planned in the previous period. Minister, I think that on one side of your legislation you do not actually regulate anything on the other, on the other, concerning the regional press, you come to regulate something that you were not asked to do, which was in operation, which will eventually create an outbreak for various opportunities, which will seek to take advantage of the potential of your legislation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I am sorry you did not show the daring that you were asked by Parliament to withdraw this bill. I hope that the course will teach you that we must not be obsessed with the support of a bill when we see that it does not ultimately serve the purpose that we at least have arrested. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, too. Mrs Anastasia Gara, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u7	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have watched around 90% of my colleagues' seats in committee and also in plenary on this bill. I'm really looking for reasonable arguments from the Vice-Presidents and I can't find them. I often believe that some people and others have landed today in reality and have no responsibility and no involvement in the governance of the country. I would therefore like to refresh our memory, because at the beginning of the plenary sitting on this bill, several colleagues in the opposition have called on us and told us that we should be ashamed. Why? Because we have exercised our parliamentary duties. Because we have tabled a bill which we discussed, the hearing took place, we have received criticism, we have accepted the positive proposals, we have made changes, we have incorporated them into the bill, and yet the indictment by the Vice-Presidents is that we should be ashamed precisely because we have exercised our parliamentary duties. I would therefore like, and you will give me a minute, to make a little patience, to remind this House of a few recent statements by Vice-Population officials. On March 29, 2016, at the meeting of the Parliament, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis states: “Of course you are stirring, even now if you really have the courage in the question of how to grant television licences. Return responsibility to the PSE, take it from the minister. Do not give only four licences. Don't you understand that the four permits breed the new complication? Don't you see that? With many licences alone, with an unlimited number, the citizen can actually have the possibility of free information and information." On October 25, 2015, Mrs Fotini Gennimata states: “Your bill overlooks all new technological developments. The digital platforms have so far overthrown them restrictions on the number of licences.’ Mr Eleftherios Aeggeakis: 'Restrictions on the number of licences and other specifications also conceal a clear attempt to manipulate television information for the benefit of friends of power'. And it goes on to say: 'Can you say to us, Minister, but on rational grounds, why should the number of licences in the broadcasting landscape be determined by the respective government? For the sake of frequency security? This used to be the case that we had frequencies limited, and the frequencies were indeed a rare resource. But digital technology is no longer a security issue. It may transmit an unlimited number’. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Anastasia Gara, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I ask this: How many more assholes can you do? Will you resign the ERR? Will you forsake the Council of State for unconstitutionality? Do we have to remove them? Are you still claiming there should be an unlimited number? Mr Lovertos, yesterday, as a parliamentary representative, spoke to us about political inconvenience, because during the parliamentary procedure there are amendments to the draft law. He specifically said to us: ‘ Aren't you ashamed? But you have recommended and now you are amending them." I am rereading from the minutes of the House on January 29, 2016: "Male Lovertos: There is one question I wonder how the majority, for the time being, exceeds it. Is there a limited frequency problem? Those who say that today’s technology allows an unlimited number of television message emissions...’. And it continues: ‘There is no restriction. On the contrary, there is unlimited possibility.' I do not know who should be ashamed of the change of opinion and, above all, of the denial of reality. I have further statements by Mr Hatzidakis, who speaks of the unlimited number. I have interviewed Mrs. Vulture who speaks of the unlimited number and says, in fact, "The terrestrial digital broadcast gives the opportunity to broadcast to a large number of content providers. The tendering procedure therefore makes no sense. Let's stop it."
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u8	It's a large number!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u9	Mr. Georgiadis said "When the state thinks it can decide what country and what does not fit into the market, then you have farewell to the Western world". And I continue to say a few things about the second narrative we heard about the redundancies of the government, with the sudden interest and sorrow of the Vice-Population officials for the workers who would lose their job. Cry and anguish from the same people who a few years ago closed down the ERT and fired thousands of workers and not only from ERT, but overall from the Greek economy. I'm reading you through a transcript of an interview where Mr. Voridis used to say a few things. Mr. Schrooter, the journalist, asks: "You, Mr. Voridis, are the people who will lose their jobs, what do you say as a New Democracy? What do you commit to?’. And Mr Vorides says: 'We are saying that firstly, we are waiting for the decision of the CTP, because it is a constitutional legal lack of law and, secondly, in my view, it should be weighed from the public interest and the question of jobs, because this is also part of it. What we are saying is that this is a law that will be repealed. And it will be abolished, because we must preserve pluralism. So this law Pappa will be abolished...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u10	But it was abolished.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u11	... which provides for at least four hundred employees to operate a channel. Not only does it ensure existing positions, but it also provides for the creation of new ones. But who fires workers, the government? The answer is given by the President of the Private Television Association, who - I will not read it, I have his statements - tells us that they were fired in those 30 days, forty people from STAR and says: 'This was a tiles, indeed, that fell on our head. We tried to get in touch with the administration, which told us that they were decisions made and, indeed, decisions concerning the ownership of the station and not just the administration that currently exists on this television station." I put it all in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Anastasia Gara, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] So I continue on the bill. We've been talking about it in the committees too. We give the opportunity and motivation to young people, to scientists, to people with talent, not to go abroad, but to act within our country. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Mr President. As an example, I call on the people who make television productions and electronic video game to visit Samothraki, Ardas, the Evros Delta and see the beauty and all the footage that they can use for the television productions, with all the incentives that the Greek Government at last gives. As far as the platform for television advertising is concerned, it is a mandatory tool. It's compulsory. We've taken back the mandatoryity of the auction, but finally, let's see who we serve. This also concerns the regional press. You were the people who abolished the publication of balance sheets and publication of declarations and notices. You know it's vital to the regional press. What you wanted - and that is why you disagree - was the media that will be controlled by you, there will be a small lobby of five advertising companies, five big channels and specific newspapers, which you will have inflated and fully controlled.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u12	Finish it, Mrs. Gara.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u13	I shall conclude, Mr President. We have all experienced the list which was changing overnight in the Minister's office or Secretary-General's office. This scenery is changing. For us, pluralism, support for the regional press and, above all, support for workers and healthy business are very important. The state is obliged to create tools to operate properly, healthyly, and to represent and operate and secure workers in this area. So I challenge everyone and everyone to vote for this bill, because at last it is a step that sets order. With our Vice-Presidents, with some dealing with the regional press, we have come to an agreement and made amendments together. I wonder how many will vote against this bill. I'm sorry about the time, Mr. President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u14	I have asked from the outset that we should stay in seven minutes - so as not to go to six - because colleagues have asked that the meeting be concluded on time so that they do not lose their airplanes on which they have already booked. Please keep the seven minutes. Mrs Katsavria has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if we did not know each other in this Chamber and especially if we were not met by the Greek people, you would think by listening to the colleagues of the New Democracy and PASOK that SYRIZA had set up the mechanisms of interlocutory in the country over the previous years or, at the very least, that we as SYRIZA wish to be like them. Well, not only are we going to be like them, but on the contrary, we are going to move more rapidly towards the creation of a transparent, democratic and socially controlled framework in the up-to-date, unaccompanied area of the media. Who attempted and attempted to manipulate the Greek people is well known. What they were gaining and what the cost to public revenues and to the quality of information is also known. It is the old political system, with their selective affinity to public entrepreneurship, banking institutions and media enterprises. This was the sinful triangle in which the economy, society, democracy and culture were caught. That is why there is no impression that the rabies reaction of the New Democracy, the Democratic Reconciliation and their columns to any attempt to put rules in place, enforce legality and protect public money and the public interest. Their reaction, in fact, is often manifested by the use of market expressions, pre-formative arguments, artifacts and legitimisations. They do not hesitate to target people, as in this case the Minister for Digital Policy, who ruined the "part". Because if the Pappa Act hadn't intervened, we wouldn't still have an PSE, nor a new and shaped landscape on TV channels. Today, the awkward and awkward Opposition denounces Mr Papapas because in the draft law we are discussing, the product of an exhaustive dialogue on television advertising time has been incorporated. If Mr Pappas had not accepted the PSE proposals, he would have been accused of authoritarianism and who knows what else. But no matter what they make of the procedures, they are, in substance, unambiguous, because they still do not submit any proposals at all, which will put order in the landscape of the electronic and the paper press. They insist that big interests be mocked in the media by vain attempting to impose an agenda of misery and pessimism, now that the country enters firmly and dynamically on a new orbit of sustainable and fair growth. However, nothing will block this course, neither lies nor cries. Let no longer be concerned, advertising time on channels will be governed by transparency in transactions and will be subject to direct tax control. Like the regulations in the local press, with the Register of Regional and Local Press, healthy competition, transparency in decision-making, the fight against client practices and equalisation with the compulsory allocation of 30% of public advertising expenditure on local media, will make them sustainable in order to function on new and solid bases. As regards the introduction of barcode to newspapers, this is the first time that the game has become clear, both in terms of traffic notes in conjunction with advertising pie, and in terms of actual sales in relation to tax revenue. What has not been discussed, for the sake of micropolitical reasons, is the arrangements for the institutional framework relating to strengthening the production of audiovisual works. This is an area that has been diagnosed by the republics of the previous governments, which were enacting and immediately subsequently abolishing bodies on film production, animation, video games. This landscape is now adequately regulated by the introduction of the incentives provided to exploit the country's experienced and intellectual potential, the rich natural environment, history and culture of Greece. The creators in art and culture will have a useful tool from now on, they will have a tool from now on at the same time as the possibility of obtaining substantial experiences from their cooperation with creators from other countries. From a new and dynamic development in the field of audiovisual works, there is much to gain in addition to culture, the increase in employment and, of course, the national economy. Ladies and gentlemen, innovation, institutional originality and clear political will for transparency and public interest protection are the main features of this draft law. That is why I call on you all and all colleagues to vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u16	Thank you. Mr Vorides, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, with the debate on the bill as formulated, an interesting question arises as to what took place this weekend. Because, of course, - I read the original wording - Article 1, as it was tabled in its original form, says: 'The purpose of the present is to operate an electronic system through which advertising time transactions are carried out'. Article 1, as finally formulated, states: ‘The purpose of the present system is to record and determine the disposal transactions...’. Article 3 states: 'Obligation to participate in the System'. Article 3 now says 'participation in the System'. The article entitled "System Function" said in its original wording: "Includes an electronic recording system" and "dealing" after. What happened, however, and the hard core changed, as I heard a colleague - it is not among us - in committee, which was the compulsory nature of the system? For that is what would make transactions transparent, would banish strife, would break the triangle of sin, all these dreadful things that happened with televisions. What made the Minister this weekend see the real light and abandon it? There are several versions. The first: Studyed Constitutional Law. He realized after the objections I made to him their correctness. And because he's already burned once he didn't listen to me last time, he's now decided to use my legal knowledge, I'm sure by controlling them this weekend. It is a possibility that this will happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u18	Unbelievable.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u19	So you're gonna vote for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u20	The first part is already committed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u21	Thanks for the contribution.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u22	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u23	There is a second possibility: Going home, hearing the president and representative of television stations and his arguments, he decided that this man may not express absolute darkness and reproach, he does not express absolute evil, but he may have told him some good ideas. And he followed these second good ideas. In any case, the basic idea, which was compulsory, was unsubstantiated. In this respect, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Pappa's second attempt to manipulate the media has been made. The first fell by the Council of State, the second fell before the race. It meant naughty retreat. Now see if what remains has any added value. What's he doing now? What's left? In fact, an electronic platform for the registration of advertising transactions, which is simply the mandatory part that it maintains, is an obligation to disclose the transaction - which is what remains - and the rest, that is, the part of the contractual relationship, remains at the level of the optional. One may conclude contracts, one may not conclude contracts through this system. I ask: is this additional obligation to make known what it serves, except for additional bureaucracy? What's the bill supposed to heal? The opacity. Where was there opaque, ladies and gentlemen? What did the Minister say here? That transactions are taking place, which, of course, must be known, such as all transactions: invoices must be issued, legal documents and data must be provided. And it can be that in this area especially, anyone who cares because he is public, because advertising is broadcast, and he can be recorded and controlled cheerfully. It's not like we sold a pound of tomatoes and he's leaving. Anyone watching TV sees who the advertiser is, sees how long advertising lasts. These are registered for whoever's interested. The price lists are made available in advance. And what does the Minister say? That what was done was an opaque system in fact of discounting policies. "While advertising does so much, if you do so many hours of advertising you have refunds that you have to get, which you provide with credit invoices," and this was a part of opacity, confusion and black. Question 1, is credit invoices legal tax documents? Yeah. Are the discount agreements legal? Yeah, they're legal. Question: Are these all now prevented, forbidden, discount agreements? Oh, no. Are volume or trade-specific agreements forbidden? Oh, no. The issue of credit invoices, on the basis of these agreements, is forbidden? Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u24	Is everyone familiar? Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u25	Answer. Should it be known where? Listen. My colleague, astonishing, will tell you what we're going through here. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Because we're going through this-- I'm stressing this, we're going through it. As long as they are legally taxpayers and publish the legal documents, those who are - one minute, Mr President - we have found them and are constantly putting them in obligations. We're increasing the tax rates, additional burdens, put the POS. That's what we do to them. With all that we're doing, did we catch the black transaction? Black transaction, do you know what it is, my colleague? Listen to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u26	That's a big place.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u27	You didn't catch her because we're putting in additional administrative obligations. You caught her, I'll tell you why.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u28	Because it rained!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u29	Why do you say that? You're telling me now and you're causing me. We caught her because capital controls have been imposed and the movement of the cash has been reduced. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Stop it now. Excuse me, if someone comes to my office, who's illegally earned some money and brought me a black bag for legal fees, will you get it because you got the lawyer to have POS? [[Noise in the Chamber]] You gonna catch her because you've put POS in? When you increase tax rates and have kneeled all those who declare their incomes, the black transaction, have you caught it? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Or now the opaque, the black transaction that you say between advertising companies, do you think they'll pick it up in the system?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u30	Please, Mr. Voridis, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u31	So there is an intrinsic weakness. Only bureaucratic obligations are added. There is nothing effective in dealing with tax evasion. But, obviously, there is nothing useful and interesting in this bill and this intervention, except one. Improved knowledge of Constitutional Law by the Minister. There's something about the future. We're on our way.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u32	Mr Lazaridis, Parliamentary Representative of the ANELs, has the floor. Please, Mr. Lazarides, you have 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. I have listened with great interest to all colleagues. I would also like to make a comment to my previous colleague in the New Democracy, who has listened with great interest to his legal arguments. I would like to say this. Indeed, they were his arguments interesting, but they were for a bill that puts the television scenery in order, which you did not do for twenty-seven years. These ideas have been interesting for twenty-seven years, why didn't you use them, why didn't you apply them? You see, this government has come and within two, two and a half years it has done what you have not done for twenty - seven years.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u34	He's in the maturation phase.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u35	Here, he gave an answer here very interesting. I also heard a colleague from a previous Member who vaguely said that some money was being paid over these years. Again, from the side of the Officer's Opposition, that was said. What money was paid? What it has to do with corporate income tax, etc.Huh? But they would be paid and paid anyway. Did any of them pay for the use of frequencies? Nobody. Frequency is the property of the Greek State. No one paid. Ladies and gentlemen, to see the money that has been lost all this time, I will give you an example, something that has recently happened. A private channel filed a claim of 30m euros for foregone gains, this well-known show called Survival. He's claiming 30m euros for one show only! You understand what the Greek State has lost over the years. The opposition was talking about an unlimited number of channels. In fact, it said that because it is digital, there is no restriction and the channels are unlimited. While the Minister was saying - we all remember them - here we were, in this Chamber - four channels, plus state channels, plus channels that would have the thematic content, plus local channels. So who has been exposed? The opposition has been exposed to "seven". In fact, let us not forget that it was a premium for individuals too, because - you know - there was what we call 'communication between them', the transporting containers, one was supporting each other. We have also seen this from the examinations that have taken place, and we have seen the sea-shore loans. That was incredible. As soon as sea loans were cut, we saw business closures, groups that we thought were giants once. But these giants were paper giants. They relied on sea loans, and in this way they supported each other. They supported the two parties...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u36	And the parties' loans.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u37	That's right. There's that, too. You have rightly reminded me, Mr President. Let us not forget that one party owes EUR 240 million and the other EUR 200 million. Let's not forget that. They were awarded a premium under ‘DIGEA’. They gave them the management of "DIGEA" and forced all households in Greece to pay to get this "wonderful box", if they wanted to keep having a badge at home. The other premium was black at the 'ERT'. There is no citizen of sound thought, a democratic citizen who has not been ashamed of this black one. We also hear from the Committee of Deputies of Hellenism how much the need is for the Greeks from the "ERT" which is the most important channel of communication with their homeland, how awkward and disappointed they felt from this black. Ladies and gentlemen, with the electronic advertising system, the state at last deals with issues relating to the operation of SMEs and their particular mission and regulates the broadcasting market, with these arrangements having a direct budgetary effect, in that they aim, among other things, to combat tax evasion. In particular, the draft law and the first chapter describes in detail the new framework for the operation of the television advertising market, which was formulated in the interests of the public interest, with a view to safeguarding its rights and ensuring compliance with the obligations of all participants in the time-frame and time-frame process. The establishment of an electronic system shall ensure that the procedure is in place and that a specific regulatory framework is established, as all the bodies involved are now obliged to exchange within the system, while the operating costs and remuneration of the administrator are borne by the participants. This electronic platform will determine prices, allocate television advertising time and collecting and clearing transactions. Why is this procedure? Because the present Government has undertaken to put an end to the immunity status of the media. We are, of course, talking about an integrated mechanism for implementing and monitoring a process that could only be transparent for decades. Any information relating to the transactions carried out is now placed under the control of the Independent Public Revenue Authority, and the Regulator is the National Broadcasting Council. Therefore, we have two independent authorities that acquire the supervisory and executive role of international standards and in full association with the moral obligation to fight corruption and the interaction. But how will that be? Through the design of the creation and operation of a platform that will be developed and implemented by a contractor resulting from an international competition. This platform will carry out the purchase and sale of advertising time to both public and private broadcasters. This is a platform with a specific methodology necessary for the provision of television advertising time in a transparent and, above all, objective manner. Invoking the media shop is being abolished, so the advertising market opens up to anyone who has the money and meets the conditions to be advertised, as the rules of the free economy and the market demand. This system should, of course, be able to take part, firstly, public and private broadcasters of national and regional scope, as well as advertisers, undertakings intervening in advertising time on behalf of advertised or advertised enterprises. With the adoption and operation of this innovative system for the disposal of television advertising time, the contents of the transactions relating to television advertising time are perfectly clear. A precise determination of the taxable material is achieved and tax evasion is being fought. The terms and conditions for the financial survival of television broadcasters shall be ensured by the prompt collection and winding up of advertising advertising transactions. Distortions of the advertising market are being fought with the practices of returns of credit notes, late payment and requirements for the provision of particularly high credits by television organizations. Any transaction not covered by the new framework shall be prohibited, while the operating costs of the system shall be borne by the participant. The Independent Authority for Public Revenue and the PSE undertake the smooth and impracticable functioning of the system and the independence of the procedure, while the role of the Ministry is limited solely to the opening of the international tender without further intervention. Undoubtedly it is part of television. And finally, the issues of broadcasting will be dealt with. With regard to the third chapter, this provides for the introduction of all forms, magazines and newspapers, magazines and daily press, the special marking of the barcode. The barcode comes to clarify the image of the market share to which each interested party aims. The advertiser will now pay on the basis of real rather than fictitious traffic. It is an important arrangement for both sides both for publishers and advertisers. Ladies and gentlemen, it is our duty to create a sound and regulated television field that ensures equal opportunities for the media involved and a landscape clean for their activities. The Independent Greeks welcome this legislative effort, as it is a bill which regulates precisely this: the nebulous landscape of decades that was artificially created by previous governments and served by the unregulated regime, of course serving specific interests. We support the bill and we look forward to immediate results for both citizens and individuals who are active in the area, but mainly for the first time in public finances. The Independent Greeks, as I said earlier, support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, too. Now Mr Theocharis, an Independent MEP, has the floor. Here, you have seven minutes, Mr. Theocharis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u39	The seven minutes will be observed, Mr President. It's a small speech, after all. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a hurry to discuss an important issue. I will not repeat the criticism of the legislative process, of the rush to run the last minute, of the lack of consultation. I will not say that, even though they are contrary to Rule 60 of the Constitution on the role of Members. That's not a process. The criticism is correct, but it is well or misguided, because the government's tactics in the footsteps, of course, of the former. Let's talk about the substance, trying to be fair, as far as possible, with this bill. The first, Minister, we must say, is that you have learned. You started by having the PSE oversee this system that you wanted to bring us. You have learned from the mistakes of previous bills, from the process, which had to reach the Council of State, to be judged as unconstitutional, and now you are trying to prevent problems. Secondly, Minister, we must say that you are listening. And that's good. Thank you for coming to listen to me. This bill has become unrecognized in relation to its original form and, of course, it has been because this system was anti-Community and unconstitutional. Thirdly, very well or badly - I am not the first to say so - this bill, apart from being unrecognised, is rather pointless, because it does not achieve any of its objectives. Let's look at them more specifically. What do you want to set up? First of all, advertising space. You have brought an anti-constitutional system - I have already said it - which is totally contrary to the principle of contract freedom, but also to an anti-Community bill. You corrected it and squeezed it. This bill can't work much. You're telling us there was tax evasion so we had to do a system to record the procedures. At the same time, you are telling us that the previous governments did not collect taxes, that there were no taxes to be collected, and that has changed with your own government and you are actually collecting taxes. So what tax evasion? From uncollected taxes? From zero tax evasion? There was no need for transparency, because taxes were not collected so far. Now there is this need. But I leave you to the fact that you eat and contradict. Are we going to catch that tax evasion system? Will the hole close? Will discounts be forbidden to pass into this system? They'll pass. Zero time. If anyone gives up time, why is he a very good client, he'll be able to pass it? So tax evasion can continue. Is there a way to check the price, if it is EUR 10 per second, if it is EUR 1 per second or if it is EUR 100 per second? So business will record, but they'll record whatever they want. If an opaque transaction takes place, they sell at twice the price and we go halfway through, the system can continue, be done and done. So from this point of view it is not really possible to give any solution. Secondly, with regard to the tender, this was the essential innovation and, of course, the core of unconstitutionalism, as was the core of the draft law. This is where it became optional. So it's not going to be used. It's for granted. We therefore have a pointless cost, a messenger, bureaucracy and a zero result. Finally, we have the time I did not hear it. You say why the PSE came, of course, and said: "We know no system, it had not been a good understanding, Minister, you had to make better contacts." It seemed to the Commission. In any case, however, the PSE did not know the system. The bill tells us that in September 2018 it will be ready. We were talking about supplies and the electronic procurement system, and you, your government, gave three extensions. You will come - I believe, this is my appreciation, because that is what history says - and that is what you will give extensions on extensions and, therefore, we will actually have a system that will be the system - fantasy. As far as the provincial press is concerned, it becomes the register. Interestingly, we have the Employers of the Provincial Press telling you to set employee requirements to get someone into the press. Have a technician, have the alpha, have the beta. And you follow the neoliberal logic: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. It is very interesting that you have come out of the right of employers. That's unthinkable. In any case, that is what you have decided to do. Positive is that you changed the legal improvements and uploaded at least the number of cards to identify and be able to get state advertising. It is not possible to sketch five to ten cards to be an excuse to get the money. But listen to publishers, at least those who are already in the register, should not put the file back. There's no reason for them to do this, since they're already and have filed. The third point is foreign production. Here foreign production is inconceivable that they do not do much more and it is good that they do even. I said this in the previous draft law on education, one of the three pillars of the first 20th century for the development of countries, such as ours, is culture and creative industries. We cannot send the one film, which should be returned to Athens, to the Canary Islands or the "Mamma mia" instead of going to Skiathos, to Croatia. These things need to be solved. But I don't think you're quite advanced. That is why I am tabling two studies - one of which is IOBE, the second of which is the Bank of Greece - which are talking about this issue, they have concrete proposals in relation to taxation, for example, in relation to education - I am tabling them in the Minutes - in relation to the framework for facilitating partnerships and co-productions. Here I think that many times we make mistakes and we think we can lock up and lock these people, who have many choices worldwide. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] With Article 53, for example - and I shall end, Mr President - we make them obligations to remain in Greece, when it is not necessary - does the United Kingdom not succeed and will we? - and when there's no infrastructure necessary for this kind of job to be done. As far as barcodes are concerned, I should like to say a few words. Listen to the problems of the provincial press, the subscriptions, the cover-ups and can create more problems than it solves, but, in general, it is a positive initiative by the Minister and I welcome it. So I will say a few words about the permits. It is important to say that I was positively surprised at you, Minister, because you were positively surprised with the PSE. If you trust democracy more than you have trusted it so far, you will see that democracy works when institutions with opposing objectives cooperate. You saw that the National Broadcasting Council, which you fought for a year, started working and began working with you. You also saw that even at the price he cooperated, saw your contest and actually did what he had to do. Ladies and gentlemen, I close after the first shipwreck of the bill, which we had to go to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u40	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u41	I'm closing, Mr. President. The Minister, the government, brings the bill of ambition and inefficiency. We expect to see when we get to have bills efficiently. We, Minister, are patient. Unfortunately for you, the Greek people have no patience anymore, and I think you will soon understand it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u42	Thank you. Mr Bukokouros, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today is supposed to regulate a number of things in the media and producers area, but on fundamental points, I think it rejects issues. I am not going to mention, of course, the advertising time management platform which, after the changes, has become an instrument for collecting statistics and data. These are good. They lead to transparency, but the limitation of compulsion and compulsion changes the philosophy of this provision. You will allow me, Minister, to address the changes in the regional press, firstly because the regional press is considered to be a factor of development throughout Europe. With your bill you come to intervene in an environment of business and work that was almost regulated to an absolute extent. So your provisions will probably lead to deregulation rather than regulation. Let us see what the framework of the regional press is at the outset today, what it is all about. We are talking about a hundred and ten titles of daily newspapers and despite the fact that they have suspended their operation in the years of crisis more than forty titles, today we can talk about two hundred thousand sheets of daily sales, when the Athenian press, Minister, barely exceeds a hundred thousand. We are talking about about two and a half thousand workers, but also about eight hundred thousand readers. Why is the regional press different from the Athenian press? A provincial newspaper, according to all the studies of the last decades, is read by four readers, unlike a newspaper of the centre read by two readers. We are talking about a very important business and information framework. The role of the press is therefore important, Minister, and this is recognised throughout Europe. I would like to say to you that France in recent years, and the previous Olad administration and the most former Sarkozy, has taken measures to strengthen the regional press, to strengthen printing, to free subscriptions to the young people of the eighteen years, to increase the state projection by EUR 200 million and to increase many other measures. England also transferred to 2025 the abolition of compulsory publications. The Netherlands itself has transferred the abolition of compulsory publications until 2030. The whole of Europe is taking measures to support the regional type, Mr Minister, because it considers it, as it is, a factor of regional development. Here comes your bill to do what? Let's see what kind of intervention he's doing. First of all, a mythology is created, as you usually do in all the bills. You come and say that the Minister alone gives the rights according to the previous law. It's not like that at all, Minister. The Minister signs rights within a very strict framework of criteria. The criteria of the law currently in force are at least three times as strict as the criteria laid down in the draft law we are debating today. For example, with the previous legal framework a daily provincial newspaper, to get rights, had to be released uninterruptedly two years. You come here today and say that in six months' time he'll get rights. You are being fortified, Minister, behind the argument that it is included in the OECD toolbox. Who? You, the left-wing government fighting the toolbox, are coming and accepting an OECD proposal. I would remind you, Minister, that the abolition of publications was also included in the OECD toolbox and in the days of your own government, with the help of everyone, you transferred them for 2021. Why you could not legislate today, what the OECD toolbox provides for in 2021, as did compulsory publications. I think that would cover you. But that is not it, Minister. Some of your collaborators have decided to join the 'Solidarists' Regional Press, which in six months will receive rights, while other publishers have bled financially to wait two and three years. Even now that we have been discussing, Minister, there are daily and weekly regional newspapers that have completed the two and three years and a ministerial decision are not adopted and you are letting them wait and you want to give rights to those who will hardly complete six months, without workers, without pages, without cards sold. What are you doing today, Minister? The minimum pages. The minimum purchased sheets, the minimum workers. Isn't that all going to lead to the minimum quality of the regional press? It is quite obvious that this will be the case. You want competition in an area affected by the crisis in an area where the whole of Europe strengthens it, Minister. You are falsifying him with grappling publishers who will appear tomorrow to distort competition and restrict the pie of businesses that have been perpetuating today from the crisis for many years. And bring the barcode. In a positive direction, this is the measure. What strengthens transparency is in a positive direction. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, if you're kind. However, you have not fixed the issue of subscriptions. I've explained it to the committees too. Again with the subscriptions that are not distributed through private companies or through ELTAs, we will have a distorted picture even with the linearisation. So you come, Minister, with all these provisions. Two associations of regional newspapers exist in Greece, the Association of Newspaper Owners and the Association of Daily Regional Newspapers. Why didn't you have a consultation before the bill came to committee and to plenary? They came to the committees, said their views, no proposals were accepted. The sixteen pages brought by majority Members of Parliament as a parliamentary amendment do nothing but clarify, clarify and clarify what the Rusopou bill for the sixteen newspapers provides. This is the only change you accept and all these days you have told us that you are seeking consensus. I would say that it is brave and not ludicrous to withdraw this section of the bill, Minister, to listen to the voice of the regional press, to listen to the anxiety of many majority members who have come and tabled their proposals, not to get entangled in the proposals and the framework put by some of your colleagues so that we do not drug ourselves, not to dismantle the regional press that, for the third time, I repeat, the whole of Europe is strengthening it. It would be brave for you to withdraw this part, to have dialogue, to strengthen transparency and the sustainability of the regional press. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u44	The reason is the Deputy Minister of National Defence, Mr. Dimitrios Vitsas, for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Perhaps some wonder what a Deputy Minister of National Defence is doing in a bill concerning advertising space, time, etc. One reason is - let us call it a professional perversion, in that I have worked in this country for too many years and from various positions. I am very surprised that the debate that took place yesterday and I watched it on television is enough, it is enough, one would say, epidermal and lightly, on a market, the advertising market, which is difficult. There has been a debate which does not take account of too many things. In other words, I see as the main argument the freedom of trade, the freedom of contracts. So, does anyone think that he's going to make a transaction today, a tobacco advertising contract? Of course not. It's forbidden. Likewise, a number of other products. Can Formula 1 run in Europe with tobacco products in its cars? Of course not. It's forbidden. So it always gets into a set of settings. It is difficult to buy because there are many interests. There is the interest of the advertiser, there is the interest of the advertising company, there is the interest of the media shop, there is the interest of the media, there is the public interest. We first and foremost look at the public interest and this platform goes to serve. There are many practices in this market. It has the time market to view a product. It has the time market, no product. It has sales promotion emissions and some Members who have such emissions do very well. He has indirect advertising. Before we reach the Step of the Parliament and its tie to wear a product logo, we must also regulate that. We have a lot of pricing policies. We have credit, we have price policies. There is a law that says this. Each one, each instrument deposits his invoice to the tax office, but each time he has the right to make an excellent invoice. Doesn't all this need adjustment? And I'm telling you that this market can be the ideal. It reminds me of an old joke we used to say: In ideal things, trust, good and vigilance, however. So in that sense we have to see it. I consider it an important step in regulating these things. I am sure that, after a number of years, additional arrangements will also be needed, following from a professional perversion again what is happening in the country of advertising, namely the United States of America, in relation to these issues. But I also saw a new opposition tactic yesterday, the personal threat. The fact that the Vice-President of the New Democracy, the Deputy Minister of Health and the rapporteur of the New Democracy to the Minister of Digital Policy, at the end of their speech, posed a personal threat. Excuse me, but do you see anyone scared? Is it - to remember Angelaka's lyrics again,'slowly not to cry, slowly not to be afraid', or do you think that the best defense is the attack? Do you know what defeats have happened to this system? That's the first thing. The second point is that there is an amendment, mainly concerning ODA. We are making an effort to close loose ends. There's a lot, I'm sorry you had omitted, in various ways, to do all this time. And in this way, we're going to close down, legally and clearly, for a thousand U.S. Two hundred and fifty-nine loose ends. We need to find a way out of this. But I can only say that of the thousand two hundred ninety-nine loose ends, the one thousand ninety-seven, it is between 2099 and 2014. Didn't anyone look at what was going on in this company? I therefore ask you to vote for this amendment so that this procedure begins. The third is that I had a terrible surprise yesterday. Two-three days ago in the newspaper "News" there was a post. The few experienced politicians, how much more experienced, understood that this post had to do with business competition, whether with business pressure or possibly with the fact that the controversy has opened up a chunk or representatives of economic operators with the Minister of National Defence, of course, as President of the Independent Greeks. They pricked - let me say - but very quickly two Members left it. With great surprise, however, I heard Mrs. Gennimata say yesterday morning that they recently saw the light of publicity from the newspaper "The News" information about direct assignments with high prices of order for two-nights by the HRC and this issue needs to be investigated for a reason above, etc. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Why that surprise? I say this. Mr Plakkatakis was right in 2009 to make the decision following the operational demand and gives it to the NSAs. Rightly and legitimately, and I have to tell you that if I were in his place, I would probably have done the same. In the period of Beglitis - Venizelos there was a question about whether this would go with the law at the time or go with the law of Venizelos. For the Venizelos law, we have all decided here together that we need to change it because it's a non-procurement law, not a procurement law, and we do a job like that. In my opinion, when Mr Avramopoulos comes along with Mr Lambropoulos and restores the prestigious situation, and Mr Yagos comes in as Minister of National Defence of the Government and puts it back and ends this process, I cannot do them any good. Let's get things straight. Suddenly Mrs. Gennimata comes and puts this post in the House. And he says, "Let's look into it." Excuse me, but I've investigated it since 2015. It's been since 2009 and it's been up until now. And the debate between NSAs and GFCM on price has been completed in November 2014. Who has the supervision of NSAs in 2014 and this price - I am not saying that he should know, he rightly did it, and there is no risk - has not changed anyway? Mrs. Gennamas. Is he investigating something that's about that period and her? How much increase is there? The increase is 1%. What's that 1%? It's the increase in VAT. I'm saying opposition mania leads you to crazy mistakes, and that's what we're gonna have to avoid. Finally, we are trying to close some loose ends - nobody would say - without voices and quietly. Next time, the National Defence Ministry's bill will close a case - I mention it - and I come down from the Step - which has started in 1999. In 1999 the 'ERMIS' case began, which after 18 years has not yet been closed. We will also close it in a legitimate and transparent way. I would also like to express a complaint to New Democracy in the following sense. When I asked and saw representatives of the parties - let me say - of the democratic arch, the New Democracy did not send anyone. I think that this is the kind of debate that promotes political dialogue. They're not blocking him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u46	Thank you. The speaker of SYRIZA, Mr Meikopoulou, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u47	Thank you very much, Mr President. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, despite the controversy between us, which many times also have a broadly professed strong time, life itself and the reality arising from the political, institutional and social processes is, I think, ruthless in the answers it gives. 'In massive redundancies the legislative initiative to regulate the broadcasting landscape by the government will lead to the government'. In fact, I remember specifically advertising spots presenting Mr. Pappa with something like a private channel consortium. A few days ago we saw these redundancies carried out by television stations themselves. "Who are you to determine exactly what the advertising pie is? Let the market find its way, let the market judge, self-regulation." Finally, the PSE itself determines the number of television licences at seven. Let me not recall what was said about the price resulting from the tender made by the Directorate-General for Information, the EUR 245 million. At EUR 245 million eventually, and the PSE determines the price of the auction. Eventually, life gives answers and is both merciless and catalytic many times in its answers. However, let us come to the bill, this legislative initiative shows in practice that, despite the difficult economic conditions we are experiencing, there are fields in both the social and institutional spheres which have no budgetary costs, but which can produce goodwill. I believe that this legislative initiative is coming and getting married in line with the TV licence law, but also with the recent decision of the National Broadcasting Council on a specific number of permits. So, without exaggeration, I think we can now talk about an integrated institutional framework that will now govern the media in terms of transparency, but also in favour of the public interest. I should also like to focus on some points in the bill which I consider to be important. Obviously, the electronic advertising platform, the whole process of buying advertising time by the operators concerned, will be carried out through it and prices will be fixed, the distribution of television, advertising time, the collection, the clearing of transactions. So what is achieved by this particular arrangement? Transparency, open procedures and the most important of all a stable regulatory framework for the allocation and buying-in of television time. I say that there is a guarantee of transparency in every transaction because I think it is commonly accepted that electronic transactions guarantee it. In addition, small and medium-sized advertisers are allowed to participate in television advertising time without the expensive mediation of intermediaries. The use of the electronic platform can therefore deprive the media of delays in payment due to the distortions of the advertising market by making the damage. The second important point I think is the establishment of the regional and local press register. In spite of the fact that the advertising space ratio remains the same, 70-30 as was in the Venizelos Act, I think there is a very specific notice that there is a difference in the first time that penalties are provided for if this percentage is not complied with, since it is also envisaged that the media should, in the event of disagreement or failure to comply with the rate, be able to bring actions. I also think that the establishment of this register stops it, let me say one man show, in relation to the disposal of public advertising. We all know, particularly the Members who first entered the government process, what happened in 2015, where there were specific media that approached MPs - I imagine it was in the past - in order to get into this particular list. I think that from this customer-based logic that has now been created, we are going to have stable personalised rules with all the necessary conditions and insurance in terms of state advertising by disseminating it to all means. The third point and important one is, of course, the barcode. A special marking of a barcode is therefore introduced in printed publications with a view to knowing the true circulation of the forms and not the factual. The fourth point to which I would like to dwell a little more because I think that it produces real added value is the Ministry's initiative, but also the Government's, more generally, in relation to the audiovisual production industry. I think that also in the piece of film production, the 3d animation, the video games are very correct the logic of incentives. The first step is integration into the investment - development law. The second step, of course, is tax incentives, but also synergy with all regions. Only one example will I be allowed, ladies and gentlemen. We all know about the great success of the television series: 'Game Of Thrones'. Part of the studios are currently taking place in Croatia. Two hundred forty thousand new visits, 250 million revenues from this series. I think the first step is needed by the Ministry of Finance and also by cooperation with all regions, so that such productions can be carried out in our country as well. In conclusion, and despite the fact that a number of Members unfortunately like to be in love with micro-policy, I think that a large part of this legislative initiative is the result of wider convergences. In both the regional press and the proposals made by representatives of private channels and the letter of the National Broadcasting Council itself were incorporated in this bill. In practice, therefore, we are showing that we could have a common attitude on big issues in public life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, too. The floor has been requested by Mr Mavrotas for twelve minutes and is preceded by a parliamentary representative, followed by Mr Stoyannides.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be shorter. After a two-week demarazing meeting in Parliament, which we had come to have at the same time in Parliament, last day, 4 August, five bills. And here's to say something's wrong with programming. We have been spending weeks with nothing or any sanctions for agreements and memoranda of cultural cooperation, and we are in two weeks coming through five bills and bills! Of course, the change in Parliament's Rules of Procedure, which deleted the time limits between the steps of the legislative procedure, which the Potami did not vote for, opened the government's appetite. Thus, urgent procedures were converted into normal, and we conveniently baptized the fish meat. But why the rush? The second assessment was closed and we thought that we would have a normal parliamentary rate. On the contrary, you have caught an unregulated legislature, of course, at the expense of the legislative work, and we will find these before us because we will again quickly change the law. Also, why so important issues of ice cream? Noms that change the map of higher education and primary health or local government and the rules of the advertising landscape. All this comes in the process of the harp glue. Are we only interested in voting or quality? Why also so many amendments? And with a doughnut shot, let me say. Why? Firstly, the new phenomenon of multimodalism. Because there was an outcry about the number of amendments in previous bills, and you even saw us depart from the House, you said to merge them. So we had broom multimodals with five articles from five different ministries and lost the ball. Secondly, the phenomenon of the parliamentary amendments which are, in fact, ministerial and in order to avoid the suffering of the General Accounting Office of the State comes as parliamentarians. And the funny thing about this is that the Minister, with a covert style, from the ministerial seats, saying he's a little bit thinking about it, says he's making it acceptable. Who? Its essential amendments. The theatre of the absurd or rather "model". Let's go to this bill, the lukewarm bill. For those who don't know, lukewarm is the last point, the point in the volleyball game. So we have the lucos for this year's season. In Chapter I, philosophy has changed radically. Where a compulsory auction was to be made through the system, there is now just going to be a record and a voluntary auction. Retreat to logic? Squeeze? There will be at least transparency because trades will be recorded, and freedom of choice will be recorded, both for instruments and for advertisers. So let us see how this will work in practice, hoping that there will be no problems from the hasty legislature and that we will not come in September to fix them, which I am not betting about. In Chapter II, for the register of regional and local types, there must be those safeguards that prevent predators, serious professionals being protected from late publishers who will appear claiming part of the advertising pie, making services. Let's see how this works in practice. Chapter C, including only one article, Article 18. It's in the right direction the barcode. However, in paragraph 4, where there is a joint ministerial decision, time schedule is needed. In other words, a specific limit for the issue of the CSM should be introduced. And on this occasion, let me say that we must introduce this in all the bills. Yesterday, in the primary health care bill, we had more than seventy ministerial decisions and only two - three had a specific extradition deadline, that is, they had been planned. This, as you can see, raises many doubts about the timely implementation of the legislation. When the administration has no deadlines, mistakes the priorities and cannot plan well, or programming depends on the defects of each congressor. So, as a legislature, we must also call for time-scales to be introduced in the adoption of decisions. It will improve the quality of legislation in terms of its implementation. That is why we have so far passed laws and they are hardly ever implemented. We therefore propose, where there is an authorised provision in each article for a ministerial decision, that there be a time limit. In fact, this could be standardised, that is, one month for the short term, three months for the medium term, six months or one year for the long term. So we believe that the implementation of the legislation will be improved by the administration, that is, where the system is concerned. Fourth chapter on the creation of a framework for strengthening the production of audiovisual works in Greece. That's right, and we're too late, I'd say. But the truth is, I expected the Ministry of Culture to bring it or at least to sign it. Besides, artistic works, which are mostly mentioned, if we look at the tables in the annex, which have cultural criteria, would therefore be responsible for the Ministry of Culture as a rule. I do not believe that there will be any objection on his part or that there will be a 'Game Of Thrones' between the Ministry of Digital Policy and the Ministry of Culture. Anyway, I don't want to get inside. The country's environment, cultural, geomorphological, human resources, is one of its comparative advantages. We can use it without selling our souls, as some conservative circles think. How? Offering appropriate conditions for foreign production that will also have direct short-term benefits, jobs, capital injections and indirectly in the long term, the image of the country, tourism, etc. As long as we do not discredit it on our own with the usual predator's practices, and that is something that the present framework must prevent. For example, Ireland, which is a country which has made a great deal of progress in this area, has become a destination for hundreds of international productions every year. Even from neighboring England, it is in the interest of them to go to Ireland to produce. Where infrastructures exist, there is a framework. Just one comment, Minister, on Article 24, which has the existing and exempted investment plans. Paragraph 4f excludes advertising messages, which are whole film productions, and which are resonating as whole films about the image of the country or the world that will work in them. This could also be the case, i.e. advertising messages, being an eligible species to be subsidised under certain conditions. 100% of the eligible costs come from new capital to be imported into Greece for this production. To speak of large productions, i.e., over a limit, with mandatory international visibility and above a certain rating on the criteria set out in Table I, namely cultural criteria. The aim must be to attract producers of advertising, audiovisual works, for example, to the global campaign for iPhone 7, which went back to our country and offered direct work to dozens of Greek technicians and gave a very nice picture of the islands and our country in general in dozens of countries. Let me not refer to the amendments - and we have said so - so that I do not regret you today, last day, with the unnecessary amendments that come, four from the Ministry of Shipping, nor say to signifiers, nor say to Venezuela, let me close the last speech of the season, on the basis of the bar of the bills that he has come, with something more personal. Potami is not a big party, with the army of MPs, associates, employees, posters. So he had to respond to a tsunami, which was almost more than his MPs in the summer over the last two weeks and went extremely well with his presence in the House. Behind this presence of the Members and the head, however, some missing heroes are hiding and let me from this Step as Secretary of the Potamian Parliamentary Work to thank, from the heart, the scientific associates, the staff of the Potamian in Parliament and in Sevastopol and the group of parliamentary support for the River, who have been overreacting and responding to extremely difficult conditions, with suffocating time, keeping the flag of the seriousness and the offer that the River has established in Parliament for the last two and a half years. As I said, Potami may not be a big party, but thanks to these people it is always read, documented, constructive, with a word useful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u50	Thank you very much. Mr Stoyannides, SYRIZA Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would briefly like to address the amendment tabled by the JRC Members on the subject: 'Do not pay the employees' wages and a harmful change in working conditions'. The Members of the Communist Party have tabled this amendment on the basis of the decision No 677/2017 of the Ice Arrow, which considered that when an employer does not pay the wages paid to an employee, even in the long term, this action in itself is not enough to establish the notion of a harmful change in the terms of the employee's contract of employment if it is not linked to the employer's intention to force him - the employee - on resignation in order to avoid payment to him of the redundancy compensation. Our Government, always positive to the amendments which prolong the protection of workers' rights, has accepted it, and so today we add a third paragraph to Article 7 of Law 2112/1920, which reads: "It is also considered as a unilaterally harmful change in working conditions that the earned wages of the employer should be paid a reasonable delay, regardless of the reason for the delay". Since, however, the aim of this House as legislator is to give a tool to the workers, I wonder, what will a considerable delay in paying paid wages? We are putting the words'reasonable delay' and we are establishing a vague legal concept which, as the lawyers say, ad hoc will be judged in every case. I'm not a lawyer, but I've been an unpaid worker, and I know the worker's stress when he's unpaid for four, five, six and twelve months, and he's gone to the lawyer to see what he's going to do. And his lawyer tells him, for example, that you can prescribe to at least get the job allowance and be able to live in the family. But when he asks whether he will have a problem or whether he is in danger of a job relationship, then his lawyer says that he does not know that, because the good or abusive exercise of the right will be judged in court, because it is a vague legal concept that is considered ad hoc in any case. A tool, to illuminate these vague and not explicitly defined by the law is case law. But what did the recent case law of the Ice Bay say in its decision No 114/2017? Among other things, he said that the right to a job can be considered abusive when there is no timely delay in fulfilling the employer’s obligations, such as payment of late wages. I would like to point out that four months of wages were due in this case and this delay was not considered worthwhile. Today we accept that four months are not a worthwhile delay. And I say that, even though I'm vertically opposite, I accept it. If tomorrow comes a decision and considers that not even six months are a worthwhile delay, what are we going to say? Today, as historic legislators of the future, is that what we want to legislate? I wonder: Who can live four months unpaid and when his wages are the only means of living? From personal experience, I tell you that the fact that there are four months of paid wages due - as they are never paid, but are constantly being paid against - leads a family to an economic and not just a collapse. The government's initiative to accept the amendment is obviously positive. But the text of the law must be clear. We must make things understandable in this Chamber. Do we want to institutionalise that the non-payment of recruits is harmful, so will the worker be able to take this non-payment as a complaint on the part of the employer and claim legal compensation, by breaking the bonds of the hostage with which the employer holds him, until he has been waived? Let us determine what this worthwhile delay is. If we leave it vague, they will infiltrate various criteria that will shape this vague concept. The worker will be insecure in leaving himself to the legal interpretation of one or the other, as if after three years he were to be judged that the delay in his own salary was not worthwhile, he will have lost his job and the compensation and the unemployment benefit and will ultimately continue to be paid for his services, fearing that anything else can ultimately be taken as a voluntary departure. On the issue of accrued earnings I have tabled a topical question three weeks ago, which was not discussed and will be discussed at the end of the month. On this subject, I have specific proposals that I will put forward for the debate on this subject. And I am sure that the Minister is positive in assessing these proposals. However, since we are now discussing a positive amendment, let us do so as we should. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, too. Mr Ioannis Vroutzis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, about a month ago, the Minister of Labour was attended by Mr Tsipras, accompanied by the Minister of Labour, Mr Ahtsoglou, who said incredible inaccuracies, erroneous lies, which are now unfortunately confirmed by this amendment of the Ministry of Labour that he accepted, tabled by the Communist Party of Greece. In particular, the Prime Minister said the incredible, that workers' wages are rising. He said the unbelievable, that for the first time full-time is higher and more flexible forms of employment. It did something even worse: it attacked justice for the recent Ice Bay Decision 667/2017, which was taken on the basis of the legislative tool that justice had in its hands, namely the ones that we are voting on. What's going on in practice? I am waiting for the present results of the "ERGANI", although and once the Ministry of Labour has published them, which you invoke and I am pleased to hear. I would remind you that "ERGANI" you have demolished it, this innovative tool, which fully records the quality and real characteristics of the wage earner. You called it "Brutsi Montazier", when you showed the first spectacular positive results from 2012 to 2013. However, by reading the 'ERGANI' one will see that, for the first time, unfortunately - and that is the huge responsibility of SYRIZA - since 2015, the labour market in our country has been practically shattered in the air. Flexible forms of employment - and you will see it when the "ERGANI" comes out - have become dominant, what you have electionally promised that you will be abolished by a law and an article, which is not done, because it is utopia and you have made fun of the workers. With regard to wages, the second great lie, unfortunately, all the workers - and they know it themselves, of course - lost at least two wages from the two memorandums, unjust and unfair. One third that has experienced it and the other one that comes from 1 January 2019 from the second successive reduction in duty. And that's not all. The purchasing power of workers and pensioners has declined even further through direct and indirect taxation. The third question, however, is now confirmed by the government's adoption - something that the New Democracy is adopting - of this amendment quite rightly in relation to the first part showing that the Prime Minister's complaint against justice was unreasonable, void and false. Because if there were this article, justice would not be able to decide so with the freedom it was given to it by the framework of the law. So there was a need to have this legislation, which, I repeat, adopted and accepted by the New Democracy in its first part. On this occasion, I would like to say, because we should also consult in the Chamber on some very serious and important issues, that the second part of an amendment tabled by the JRC was not adopted because it has already been the case. It is a strong case law - tools for the benefit of workers which have not been affected and which are also the core of the country's labour law, which is very strong in favour of workers. Law 690/1945, amended by Law 2336/1995, is a very powerful law in favour of workers. If the employer does not pay, there is a criminal offence, a criminal offence against him who does not pay the worker during the time, a criminal offence if he does not pay the Easter gift, the Christmas gift and the permit. These are tools in the toolbox of our country's labour law and are inviolable. They're sacred relics. What do I mean by that? I would like to say that Greece has such powerful tools as its arsenal of labour law. Today this will strengthen even more and make the framework and reference to the breach of working conditions more clear. I do not know if you understood, Mr President-in-Office, what happened yesterday with an issue that we have seen as a New Democracy for some time now, but now it has reached its peak. Unfortunately, an insured worker was found with a very heavy illness and shortly before he died, he asked the doctor to believe, to keep him alive with the machinery that keep them very heavy, so that the death certificate would be later than his wife’s birthday that was in a few days and would close at fifty - five years. Do you know what this is? It is this result of the inhuman insurance structure of Katrugalo - SYRIZA, that you dismantled the widow's pensions and made people humiliate and beggingly ask doctors just before they die to keep them with the machines in life so that their wife can get her pension and be entitled. As a new Republic, we have repeatedly called for this inhumane article to be changed. We have met with the specific groups of women who claim this right. The government shows an inhuman indifference. It is an issue that is very serious and for which you are showing incredible indifference and analgesia. We invite you to speed up and change the law. We'll do it the minute we get called and it'll be very soon. And it would be a good thing if the Minister for Labour was here today to answer a few questions, for example, with retired people who have been unreserved for the first time in our country's insurance system. That's three hundred thousand unfinished pensions. Three billion are the debts of the insurance system, and at the same time the Minister of Labour and the political leadership of the Ministry of Labour are proud to say that there are surpluses in EKA. But who are you kidding, Minister? Who are you playing with? With our intelligence? When you received in 2014 the outstanding debts of the insurance funds at EUR 10.7 billion, forty-three years, and in two and a half years you exceeded 100% and reached 113%, about EUR 23 billion. This is the footprint of your political responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, too. The Minister, Mr. Pappas, has the floor. Do you want to use your dentistry or talk for a while?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u55	I'll talk a little now, and if I have to.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u56	Here, Minister, you have the floor for nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u57	I think that the debate as it progresses is very productive and also forms a climate, which is in contrast to the high tone, which existed at the beginning of the debate. However, I would ask the opposition parties very much not to perpetuate a tactic, which consists of'speaking and voting'. We cannot come here to say that 'it is good for this regulation, that's where you fucked it up and you heard us, of course we want the barcode, it is obvious that there must be incentives for audiovisual', and then follow a hybrid, which is contrary to the fundamental positions and I think it also exposes those who use it. Unless we want to talk about the substance here and come only to create a impression and get out of here. I don't think that's the part that's right. Let's go to the platform, then. What was the purpose of the platform? The purpose of the platform was to correct and correct a deafening market failure. How does the advertising market work, and why do problems arise? Because there is an unfavourable association of power between advertising companies or media shops and channels. Refer to the Internet. There are dozens of videos from people who work in the channels, who complain that advertising companies are exposing their time without even talking to them, without being addressed. And in the end, they claim to be paid by the channels and not the advertiser for the services they provide. Is this a secondary distortion? No, it is not at all secondary, because this thing compresses the budgets of the channels, the channels are compressing the quality of the programme produced, the rights of workers for wages and, of course, as was the case in the past, the banking rules and they are borrowed with air and are at a rate of 1,5 billion debts, which at an aggressive rate tended to increase before the adjustment effort is made. This is the intersection, which brings the platform. And because this is where we started a debate and monsters heard - that we can check who gives advertising where, we will press a button and dance and I do not know what else - we have made changes which say that, of course, the system will be compulsory for everyone, all transactions will be recorded, there will be no transaction under the table, which we do not know about advertising time, that is, there will be no basis for market failure, asymmetric information. And, of course, it will be possible for a channel, if it has a product, which it considers to be competitive and which can bring more revenue, and to auction it. I will give you an example. So imagine - I will not say a name, you will all understand what I mean - a game, a reality, which has a very good viewing and the owner of the television station does not pre-sale the advertising time six months or nine months ago, but it leaves him last minute. He leaves him 15 days ago, ten days ago, five days ago and has an obligation to register the transaction on the platform, but he also has the possibility to auction it and can collect more money. Don't we want sustainable channels? We want sustainable channels. Obviously, we want sustainable channels, because in the television area, production units - in or out of import - called channels - are the ones that create employment and we want to create hours of sustainability. What's bothering who? I would like to ask you, if you welcome the changes we have made in relation to the original wording of the bill, to vote in favour of this chapter. This is a solid and coherent political attitude. Of course the other major channel wound was that they were assigned advertising money six or nine months later or even a year later. And that's what's going on here. In other words, the unfavourable correlation between media shop advertising companies, which were pressing the channels and the channels freely and with full information, can sell their advertising on better terms and thus improve their finances and do not continue the domino pressures from the channels to the banking system, from the banking system to the political leaderships and maintain what we have said, the "triangle of interlocutory". With regard to barcode, we welcome the broad consensus and the cross-party finding that it goes without saying that it must be established. Of course we will bring about a legislative improvement, because comments from parties from Officerial Representation have been heard that time of implementation needs to be determined.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u58	I think we can agree that its ultimate limit must be May of next year, because it will take time and for the competition to develop the system and be ready for its completeness. But until then, and I would like to highlight it - there is a provision in the bill from the outset - agencies have to bring us their cleared releases. We have a short delay here, of course, because the agencies will give us releases, which were forty-five days ago, but I think that an interim step with the existing technical and legal arsenal is a step, which can put us in the new era of regulation, until the system of the linear code is fully developed, which will give us real time the real releases of newspapers. There have been concerns about the subscriptions. Compulsoryity consists of all stages of production and production and distribution of newspapers. In other words, they will be scanned, the newspapers will be scanned at the printing press, and at the agency, and at the press level, and at the final sales points. Therefore, the issue of subscriptions seems to me to be resolved here. A parliamentary amendment has been tabled for the register, which is accepted, which increases the necessary material. And here I must say that I have not heard any criticism that says that we should not have a Regional Press Register. There has been a debate, which, of course, has been taken into account, on the conditions to be met. I am also saying in this debate that, after the bill, we will be open. It's not over trying to regulate the state with this bill. There are, however, strong foundations, and here I would like all the wings to admit. It starts an effort, which, unfortunately, had never been done before. There have also been expressions which, of course, have no substance and simply served an opposition tactic, that the present government has abandoned the regional press. I am sorry, but I will tell you that for the first time the famous '70-30', which had been voted on since 1995, has been implemented because sanctions are provided for public bodies which do not apply it. Because it existed as a clause, but there was no method of imposing it. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Of course, there is also the Internet Media Register, which I must tell you has four hundred seventy companies identified and over a thousand sites, I think. I'm not clipboarded to tell you the exact number. We are pleased to note that more than half of the entries concern media from the province. I would therefore like to send a message to all the wings of the Parliament, but also to the state media in the province, to have their antennas open, to coordinate their efforts, to be activated and to be activated, of course, in order to ensure precisely these provisions of the law, which can contribute very much to the sustainability of the province's media. Both sides need to make their efforts. We are now going to audiovisual, where the initiative has also been welcomed and I have not heard any destructive criticism. Of course, there have been criticisms of whether and whether it will be effective retrospectively. [[At this point the closing bell of the Secretary-General's speaking time repetitively rings.]] Mr President, give me a minute. Thank you so much! Here we are, and we will judge, whether the country can effectively do what all the other countries do, especially the region, which may have similar relief and very good sunshine, which is very attractive to film and audiovisual productions, if we too can become a attraction to such investments, which - as has been said - are very efficient in terms of the local economy as well. National Broadcasting Council: I think things are very clear here. There may be a criticism and the designations, which have a limited - let me say - functionality and political effectiveness, may even be evicted, but we are in 2017, and we are following the decision of the National Broadcasting Council setting out the number of licences in seven and making the maximum price that we have achieved in the competition last year. So we're at this stage. We brought legislative improvements following proposals from the National Broadcasting Council, which were unanimous. I think that these too should be voted on. But there is also something that becomes necessary: to be honest with each of us in his political audience, because we cannot come here and say 'good regulation, good or bad, the third, self-evident fourth', and at the same time to devour. This should not be political culture and the measure of political controversy. If you agree with the arrangements, if you welcome any changes that we have made, you must also tell the people who hear you say so sincerely, not throw a line in order to get into the well-known lists, the broadcasts, and otherwise here we come to vote, because this government is doing what is self-evident, which has not been self-evident over the past decades. I think this will help us and you to improve the dialogue, to upgrade it and to be much more effective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, too. We will continue in turn, i.e. two Members - a parliamentary representative. Mr Mardas and Mr Barcas have the floor in turn, and then Mr Loverdos. Mr Mardas has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u60	I'm sorry, Mr. President, may I have the floor to add something?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u61	I'm sorry, Mr. Marda, the Minister wants to add something. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. I have failed to mention that the amendment number 1228 concerning the Regional Press Register is accepted, but also an amendment relating to arrangements in connection with the Holy Monasteries of Mount Athos, which is a parliamentary cross-party. It is Amendment No 1229, which is also accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u63	Thank you. Here, Mr Marda, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have followed both the technical analyses and the analyses relating to constitutionality or not. What I have to say as a question as a new Member is this: when laws that do not change in committees come, then you blame us for authoritarianism. When laws come that change in committees, then you blame us for something else. At some point you have to decide exactly what you want and what exactly is your position in this particular matter. On this point, we have heard expressions of immunity, opaqueness, as to why only a platform, as to whether this system is opaque, has been heard. I can tell you that the entire Electronic System of State Supplies is just as opaque. The architecture of this system, its tools and all the parameters it needs to build, are the same, if not similar, of the Electronic System of State Supplies. And a parametering of the tools of the existing Electronic System of State Supplies can immediately give us the result we need. I cannot therefore say that this criticism is correct. Because, if it stands up and we think that two systems that move in the same architecture, in the same logic, on the same platform, are opaque, then I can tell you that we have to deal with the European Commission toward us, if we consider that the Electronic Procurement System is opaque. What is the result of this system? He conceives black money. Can someone say to me: How can two ads agree on an ad, 10 thousand euros, be registered in the system of 1,000 euros, so 9 000 euros are lost, and this black money cannot be arrested? That's a question. The answer, however, is this: If the same advertising, at the same time, is paid by another company EUR 10,000, you understand that this is where the Independent Public Revenue Authority is involved. On the other hand, for such wide differences to be paid, it means that cash is circulated and payments are not made electronically. Of course we all know that more than one amount cannot be paid in cash, so we will have many violations of laws. Therefore, the position that black money is not being captured is unstable. He's arresting it. Not entirely, but to a large extent. I come to Chapter 4 ‘Following the support of audiovisual works’. The only criticism that has been made so far is that of Mr Varvitsiotis who said that we have 'Mamma Mia!', the second follow-up to the project, which will not be returned to Skopelos, as far as I remember, and will be returned to Croatia. It certainly blamed the government on the fact that we have not brought this law, which is very good law and particularly competitive with other countries, so we have lost this opportunity. This is indeed something one can say that we have not done much in the last two years. In the past few years, couldn't this law come? When the Olympic Games ended, the country had a scary advantage in attracting films. This law should have come in 2005 and not in our day. So when you once make a criticism of us, it is good to do it in a mirror, because ultimately self-criticism is a part of the democratic processes that we all live in, and at some point you have to do it. This law has told you that it is indeed competitive. The United Kingdom provides 20% grant, we have 25%. The Louisiana of the United States, which is interested in attracting films, provides for 30% tax exemptions. Other tax exemptions, other grant. The grant procedure is more dynamic. In addition, this arrangement can be enriched by other facilities. What kind of facilities? For example, in industrial zones there are too many shells. These candles could be used to serve movie needs for a period of time, whichever time these movies are turned to the country, either by offering them at a very low price or even free of charge. So this law has the strength it needs. It is particularly good, very competitive and, since we have attracted some films so far with all the adverse conditions that existed in the country, from now on we will have much better results. I would like to inform you that at the moment a film, the "Travel", of English production, which is mentioned in the period of 1940, is being filmed in Greece and is being very well-known for foreign and Greek actors, and we think that in a short time we will see this project in the cinema halls. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u65	Mr. Barkas has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u66	Thank you very much, Mr President. Starting with, I would like to make a reference to the way in which you are to legislate and, in particular, to the procedures that have been followed in the last week. In my opinion, we have had three very important bills, which - as I will explain below - have shown basic ideological differences between the Government and the Officerial Response and the PASOK as a party that helps in the criticism of Officerial Response. I would like to address the Bureau - I have the honour of the President of Parliament listening to me too - and to say that it is wrong for Members not to speak in plenary. The MPs are the sovereign in the House, not the interventions of the parliamentary representatives, the ministers, but the controversy and personal reports between Ministers and MPs. It's a bad management. Mr Loverdes is also in front of me, who is a person who has a parliamentary experience and possibly agrees to this procedure. This use of staff, which has been taking place very seriously recently, seems to me to be of no help to anyone, and above all it takes time from those who have to speak in Parliament, who are the Members of this House. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that we can no longer hide that there are now strong ideological differences in the debate on what we all call the post-Civilisation as a'social state'. I am referring to the fact that two top bills concerning the substance of the social state, which are health and education, have emerged in a common and substantial way how we understand the social state and who we must defend, but who we defend, and who we are defending the Qualitative Opposition. In this debate we claim the re-establishment and re-establishment of the social state, which had taken some steps in the 1980s, but hard neoliberalism and power management from the Siotis PASOK took these people out of the core of the social state. These were people who did not have access to the public health system, which was constantly shrinking, nor to the public education system. We say, therefore, that everyone must have access to the public health system. With regard to education, we are talking about public schools that were under collapse, without professors, without books, but with photocopies, with programs that started after Christmas because there were no teachers. So we're talking about a social state, that is, health and education, under collapse. Now there is a new leadership in the New Democracy, which is far-right neoliberal. It has as its motto that the market will solve everything and that it does not need a social state or a public health and education system. Of course, there is also a Vice-President of the New Democracy, who has told all tons of "these bills do not bring them by Tomsen and the Troika, but they are my creations". It is obvious that the new leadership of the New Democracy is not interested in the social state. Not all people want to have access to health and education. It wants some to be out because this is how the market solves them. I am sorry for this intervention on previous bills, but, as I said before, at the beginning of my speech, we were not given the opportunity to place ourselves. It is clear in the bill under discussion that there is no criticism of the substance of the bill. This bill does set rules in a disparity that existed in the regional press. Those of us from the province and those of us who, if you like, in the provincial press, know there was no class in the provincial press, but there were groups, there were newspapers with party criteria or newspapers that had access to advertising. So what we are doing is to run provincial newspapers, which will do their essential role, which is to inform the citizens about what has been said in their province, their prefecture, their municipality, their region and their content, and which will have general, national logic, and not national newspapers, which will be published at election times, which will support specific interests, locally and politically, and which, otherwise, will strike, on the basis of the funding of the local MP or the party, the opposition or the government, because they have learned. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] This basic criticism is being made for the so-called platform by the Civic Opposition. This is a platform which puts a stop to the trafficking of black money or money which cannot be controlled by advertising companies to the media. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] What did this relationship create? It created a relationship of power between advertising companies and newspapers, which, in order to be able to take part in advertising pie, had to obtain loans from banks - so power relationship between channels, newspapers and bank - left unpaid workers and get loans only with their signature. The fact is that it is a principle which puts an end to the opaqueness of the regime. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude with that, Mr President. There's a lot of talk about the Pappa law. I would say that the opposition could be self-criticistic about the arguments he had about the Pappa law. The arguments were two. The first was the number of permits. You were saying "unlimited." The ERR says seven. I don't hear criticism of the PSE. The second is about the fact that we can't put them in a room to auction and put money in, because the market solves all on its own, based on advertising pie. Again the PSE responds and says that the starting price for each licence from the seven - and not the unlimited ones - will be EUR 35 million. It's called the PSE. We don't. So you will go up here, Mr. Chiara, and on the basis of what you have said, you will do your self-criticism and say the following.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u67	For the second part you didn't read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u68	You'll say: I'm sorry for the unlimited. We agree with what the PSE says, seven.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u69	Can we say sorry? The unconstitutionality you forget.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u70	As far as the money is concerned, you will make the multiplying of seven by thirty-five as starting value and not as an end value...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u71	All right, Mr. Barca.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u72	...and say: We accept 245 million - that's what you'll say from the Step of the House - which the channels give us...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u73	From seven, not four. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u74	...and we call on the government - and here is the government - to use them to build a social state for hospitals, for doctors, for education, for books, for schools.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u75	You didn't give the surplus!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u76	Such criticism will be made by a step in the House now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u77	Thank you very much, Mr Barca. Mr Andreas Loverdos has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u78	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin with what was said yesterday in the House. I want to tell Mr. Pappa in advance that I have nothing personal with him. Because sometimes the intensity of political controversy may give him a bad impression. I don't have anything personal. Politics, I'm talking. I will explain what I said yesterday, and I will respond to many arguments that have been made by colleagues in the Chamber. I told you yesterday, then, a rhetorical question: “You are not hurt by the slaps you eat from the judges and politicians? Haven't you had enough perhaps?" It is continually the blows you eat at the political level and the court disapproval you have had is very great. I want to be very clear, because it often goes through the minds of what we are seen and is outside the Chamber that political confrontation makes me say that. You made your law in October 2015, the Pappa Law. It was then revealed that your law married him, the reality of your attempt to make your information, as you did ERT on public television, a SYRIZA TV. I want to say this here from the Step of the House, ladies and gentlemen. Public television must always serve governmental work, because private television does not cover it all. There are aspects of government action that are not of communication interest and are serious and must be projected and it is the work of public television to do this. So there's always a tendency - but authentic, I was serving things - public television to present, to project the work of the government. From there, however, until it is news about the work of the government, which is now the situation, there is a great deal of distance. You're responsible for this. All newspapers to you refer to when they refer to the ERT. ERT is SYRIZA's TV, it's not public television. I'm going back to your law. With the "SYRIZAchannel" you contributed to transforming the moral advantage of a government that was entitled to it - because a few months were ruling, while the other parties ruled years, a problematic state when you supervised it colored you - and you yourself made a personal contribution to your law and to what you did - which I will say now - to transform it into a moral disadvantage. You are now a government with a moral disadvantage. "Your law fell, we all remember it, of course, but not forgotten. The memories are fresh. Loss of a recent memory, we're not going to get hurt. We charge you with this failure. You came to Parliament - and I do not want you to tell me that I was intense, we spoke very kindly, we faced ourselves with no tension, at least, which escapes from the political limits - and you have brought an amendment - the previous colleague has left - with whom you have arranged the multiplier capacity weeks ago. I told you, in and out of Athens, that since you did not take the view of the PSE, the National Broadcasting Council, the law will be broken, even if the PSE was consulted and may have said something close to what you say. You had the constitutional obligation - as the Council of State has clearly said - to have been consulted, to have submitted its opinion and to present it to the National Representation, because you were not entitled to send this opinion. I did parliamentary control for you. You're telling me 'but I have an email with the PSE'. The correspondence, ladies and gentlemen, of which I have received knowledge, shows that the PSE tells what I have just said to you here, just now, that you should not ask. That's what the mail said. So what the majority Members say, namely that the PSE has now made a decision for 35 million, to get permission, etc., is undermined by Mr Pappas. Anyone who doesn't want to pay for this will appeal against you and win you back. And that's problematic. I'm in the mouth with a question of no rhetorical, real, essential. Why are you doing this? What would happen to you if you asked the ERR and answered? Obviously, it's a matter of mentality, if it's not about doing what you can to keep the contest going. But, you see, I don't rush to throw everything on your back. I'm recording the problem, and I'm asking questions. You will answer the questions, not only now, when life comes to verify, once again, what the National Delegation tells you. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, while for two and a half years there has been no euro benefit from these procedures, we have read that a channel - and what matters is, for the stand it has taken - 'STAR', you are being sued for 32 million and you are being asked for compensation for what has been suffered from what you have done and for the projects that you have lost. I hear people will do that too. Mr. Pappa, make sure you win these trials, because these trials are directed against not Nikos Pappa, but the Greek public. If you're also convicted of losing these trials, you're going to charge a few dozen millions to the public, which has to pay compensation to those who have brought an action against him for his injurious behaviour. Note this because damage to the public is not just a political debate. You must be very careful, especially when you have dragged in, you and Mr. Tsipras, the controversy where you dragged it. Because we remember your words well. So make sure you win the trials. If you don't win these trials, Nikos Pappas is not loaded, the Greek state is loaded with Nikos Pappas' policies. Now let's go to the present. You tried yesterday to say that we were making a fuss for no reason, because you are adapting to the opinions of the PPE. But, ladies and gentlemen, you of the majority, who support the draft law, are entitled 'Electronic system for the allocation of television advertising time'. Its first articles are articles governing its principle. That's why this law was made. For the rest and the amendments you could make. Here every time in every draft law you bring ten draft laws with amendments. Would you have hesitations and arrays here? The principle of your draft law is these first articles. The House tells you in the Standing Committee that Union law is insulted. The House tells you that the Constitution is also offended. You're told by the agencies. I, like every time I speak, see to it that I read what our representative has said to the Standing Committee. I read all three speeches by Mr Papatheodorou and read what you said. You were telling the man, who was telling you the truth, that he would be exposed, that life would show him how he said things that don't stand. A man of serious, university, nobleness toward you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u79	No, no, no. Ask him.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u80	Yesterday on a reflection he told you, instead of telling you that you were dictated by the amendment you brought here. And I'm looking for him for his kindness toward you. So you answer the House with taboo, with instruments, with motions against others, saying that we will be exposed. They're pulling your ears. I asked you yesterday to whom did you bend, in Brussels or Athens? My opinion is that the order came from Brussels, that this contradicts Union law and you will be in trouble. You come here and bring the opposite: from the compulsion of participating in the electronic platform, which will distribute advertising time and determine, as your law says, this platform is optional. To do what? Who's gonna use it? Who will be at the expense of this process when it is not compulsory? Your Members come and say to us first: 'Well, since we change something, as you said, why don't you vote?' So all the first articles of the bill are for throwing. What can we vote for? Something that's not true? All the first articles of the law are for flying, Mr. Pappa. There aren't any. It's hole in the water. The majority tells us, repeating in essence an unimportant phrase: "These are our principles, gentlemen. If you don't like them, it's okay. We have other principles.’ And today it brings exactly the opposite. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] But is that possible? That's why I'm telling you: humiliation! Here, ladies and gentlemen, a draft law, which the report says other things, the opinion of the Scientific Office of Parliament, twenty-four pages, is on another draft law, overthrows its basic principle, humiliates you, makes you support other things than what you have said in committee and insists. We must, in other words, retreat and not tell him that it is humiliated by every draft law it brings here. Neither the Danube, who is now going to be worthy, in the government's planning commitments, nor is the Danube, who will come out in the Thermaikos. Mr. Mardas is gone. Since we were classmates, he would remember that Garufalias in Athens was mocking him with various slogans. We students in Thessaloniki then made fun of him with the motto "Sea in Trikala, door to Kamara". In the Kamara of Thessaloniki, that is, to put a door. That was our motto. You'll be ridiculed if you haven't been ridiculed already, with what you're doing. End of Chapter I. For Chapter IV, the observation Papatheodorou stands. I repeat it. We do not vote for provisions that do not bring the appropriate minister's signature. They're bringing the signature of half the competent minister. Mrs. Connordou doesn't sign. We're done with chapter IV, it's none of our business. There's no government here. There's Pope Versus Conniordos. I don't know that. I'm not a gossip either. The draft law should, as Mr Papatheodorou said, have the signature of the Minister from which responsibilities are removed and does not bear that signature. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Let's go to chapter II, and that's what I'm gonna close. I don't have any more time. Mr. Papatheodorou said it, I don't want to repeat it. We agree on conditions in the area of the regional press. We are aware, however, of what is happening in the regional press. I would like to read because you did not adapt anything to our remarks - as Mr Papatheodorou said yesterday - the fourth point relating to the regional press is true. I read it as it is, to be heard by the Minister, if anything goes through here. "In the interests of exclusion of an issuer or director, because of irrevocable judicial decision, I think," said the colleague, "that you should see only the case of extradition or non-payment of currency from the economic crimes anticipated, to the extent that the acts of this criminal deportation have increased because of the period of the crisis.". Ladies and gentlemen, my last sentence. This week of the concentrated, unjustly concentrated, as I said yesterday - our parliamentary life - came the draft law on education, anachronism and regression, lawlessness on the frontline of the agenda, so many articles came in the draft law on health. It has been a parliamentary struggle here. What are you doing on the substance? You remove the possibilities that the Greek citizen has to serve today, you are baptising these private health - badly - and a great reform of my own, which had not been politically able to communicate, but the world had tasted it for five years, you gradually shake it in favour of a public clientele system, not health. But we did yesterday. Third, the media. What my fellow Members have said is critical of the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u81	Shut up with this, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u82	Overall, however, the last week of the parliamentary life of this period is the week when we hear the reciprocity of SYRIZA and ANELs. From the pedal of your retreat you leave dust, which we are unfortunately inhaling, but it is the last evil we will suffer. You are a past and this past the Greek people are paying for it. There will quickly be procedures for restoring the functioning of this place, both within the context of democracy and within the context of the administrative needs that the citizen and Greece need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u83	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u84	The Minister has asked for the floor for a minute. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u85	I must admit that Mr. Loverdos has made an attempt to lower the tons a little. All right, it has not been retained completely, I must say, Mr President, but I will welcome at least a move to tonnes. The impressive thing was that he called on Mr. Papatheodorou for courtesy, but that's what let me get past it. I mean, two things. First of all, Mr Loverdos reiterated what he had said in a relevant question and which we had discussed here. He accused us of bringing an amendment to the simultaneous transmission of standard and high-definition and, therefore, the number of channels was limited. In the document with the opinion and the legislative improvements of the National Broadcasting Council - I invite you to read it, Mr Loverdo - there is also the agreement of the National Broadcasting Council for the simultaneous transmission of formal and high-definition and, of course, a reference to the relevant clause on the number of workers. And the provision you bring as a flag, and you are trying to create impressions that this is a crypt for non-conventionality, is just a picture of what is now being done. Because at the moment, all the private channels of the pan-Hellenic range also emit in formal and high-definition terms. The most impressive of all - and I am sure that every observer in this debate will note it as such - is that you have accused us of not wanting a competition for the channels. I think that goes beyond any political fantasy and will be recorded as such. I am sincerely sorry that you were placed in the way you were placed in the proceedings against the public by a station that was voluntarily withdrawn from the competition last year. I asked one very experienced legal person and he said to me: it's like two thieves enter a house, one to be able to steal a lot, the other not to be able to steal a lot and the one who hasn't been able to steal a lot from the owner of the house to be compensated.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u86	That's a nice legal guy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u87	This is unfortunately the story. I am very sorry to note that. However, because you have not been placed, I will not ask you to do so and to press you. We will listen to your position in relation to the legislative improvements that we have brought to us following a proposal from the National Broadcasting Council.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Minister. Mr Xydakis, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u89	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u90	All right, the Minister made a comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u91	I would like the floor after Mr. Xydakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u92	After Mr. Xydakis, yes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u93	Mr President, it is not possible for the Minister to take the floor after every speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u94	You're right. We're gonna be okay. Mr. Xydakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, let us say that the bill, with all the debates that have taken place and the criticism it has received and with the many improvements that the Minister has brought to the House, I think it is a good start to regulate in a grey area that is audiovisual electronics, newspapers, who have suffered from the lack of regulatory framework, the lack of rules and many times from their use as a supply of political money and a ruthless influence. I would like to make four remarks very practical to the Minister - some of them I told the committee - to help implement the law. Unfortunately, those who were in contact with the public administration by the new political staff - and the former ones know it - are aware of it, and the Minister knows that others are being voted in the Chamber and otherwise they are being implemented or rather not. Our aim is for the laws to be implemented, to be operational. The 2010 Cinematography Act undergoes a change in this bill. There was a 1.5% end on the payroll channels and 1.5% on the ERT and the producers of telecommunications content on the whole. This 1.5% was the resource that went to enhance national film production. The only ones who have given it since 2010 have been ERT and subscription channels. The private channels, which had 1.5% on advertising, never gave it up, because the political leaderships also got shorter, but mainly because they embarrassed themselves, reacted, and in too many ways and appeals are still reacting. Now he's on a channel, on a road. The Minister's bill, Mr. Pappa, turns 1.5% on the payroll turnover to 1.5% on advertising. I don't think that's right. It's not right for two reasons. Firstly, 1.5% of the turnover is for ERT, whose income is largely the end of which all Greek citizens pay and it is a healthy financial body. Secondly, because subscription channels, especially for their revenues, are based on subscription and, secondly, on advertising. I call on the Minister not to take away perhaps the only sound and direct rewarding resource that Greek film production has. I also reminded him within the committee that Greece gives three million for Greek film production. Portugal, corresponding to GDP, population and cultural positions in the European area, gives thirty million. One to ten. We must not remove resources from the Greek cinema. Minister, I hope you can hear this and incorporate it. Secondly, I would like to refer to the good, serious and unfavourable predictions of strengthening audiovisual production in the bill. I have sometimes made calls to the Minister, and to the pre-parliamentary procedures, to exploit the expertise and staff of the Hellenic Film Center for the implementation of what is provided for by the law. The EMEA will be slow to acquire a personal organisation and know-how. The Greek Film Center has a history of thirty-forty years in Greece. In 2010, she acquired a good legislative framework, a copy of the French. Let this knowledge be exploited. Since 2010, just this year, his body was completed and addresses were established. With experience of the slow, tortureous modalities of the Greek administration, the institutions that we recommend by law make many years to form, to acquire institutions, to acquire staff, to acquire know-how. The Minister for Digital Policy should draw on the know-how and inspiring potential of the Greek Film Center. They are common objectives, common resources within the central government, common strategies, common functions. Another observation. We are pleased and wishing to see the objectives of the new ERT Board of Directors. I appeal again to the political leadership but also to the new administration of ERT - with worthy people, with worthy people and respectful ones, such as Christos Leontis, a great composer - to speed up the procedures for the election of journalists, who are an ex officio member of the board of directors. To have a full democratic representation from all classes, according to the founding law. I have one final comment to make. I want the Minister to hear it. A definition is made of the last chapter of the independent producer. The independent producer, as provided for in the bill, is the producer who participates at a rate of 25% in a television organization and covers up to 70% of the television production programme. I think it's too much numbers. I'll give you an example. The company "ANISS" of the Bobola family had a lower percentage than that and covered 70% of the production of the "MEGA". There are identities and abusive actions. It is not bad with regard to these televisions, but, if we put a film producer as independent of such demolished, I would say, quantitative characteristics, we condemn the small producers and other producers, who are not involved and, in my own knowledge, I have knowledge of the film landscape - this small spring of Greek cinema began. I would suggest that we have a rate of 5% -10% participation in television stations and 40% coverage of the programme. We must support the smallest producers. To bloom from the nursery of experimental artistic cinema to enter the largest. Thank you very much and wish you every success in the summer holidays of all colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u96	We thank Mr Xydakis and his wishes. Mr. Loverdos had asked for the floor. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u97	I take the floor because after my speech the Minister made one or two comments and I owe him the appropriate answers. He referred to the question of the treatment of "STAR" against the Greek public and against him, for which I made a whole development. I advised him on the side of the National Representation to win the trials. He referred to what a legal counsel told him. His legal advisers were also told when we told him that the provisions of his law were unconstitutional! He was referring to legal advisers, to steal something from their authority, to convey an opinion to the House of Advisers as an authentic opinion. What happened is we all know it and he knows it well. So leave legal advice, exposes them, and look to win the trials, because what they ask him to ask for is damage to what he did, and instead of going for wool, he'll come out and rampant. If he went for wool himself and went out ragged, it was a matter of his own, but here is the Hellenic Republic, whose citizens will put their bones to pay for their injurious political behavior. In the House, since everything that has been said here and I have been in the system with my speech, it should be directed more closely. Because the defeaters won't allow him to say in a convincing way what he said two years ago and won against us at the expense of our honor and our reputation...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u98	Well, now that's beyond the answer, of course. Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u99	...communication games. Now this is all lost and the House claims to be seductive.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u100	Good. Mr. Papatheodorou likewise has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be very brief, really. I wanted to tell Mr. Pappa something. I heard that it was ironically mentioned in my politeness, which I think is not only a feature of a parliament, but is a characteristic of dignity. Mr Pappa, the next time you think about ironing out my politeness, I would tell you to remember that for eight and a half months you have refused to come to Parliament to answer my question about the financing of the website of Davarakis for which you have been accused. When you do so, you will also be able to respond to the criticism of the policy I make, not the inappropriate and implied political criticism. Do it first and then you'll have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u102	Good. We proceed with Mr. Georgios Papaliou, MP of SYRIZA, who has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u103	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this legislative initiative is an institutional intervention in the media field and complements the regulation on the licensing of television frequencies, namely the regulation of an anarchy, for decades, of a television and radio landscape. The unified position of the New Democracy and the PASOK on this draft law now encloses, I would say, a contradiction. While they claim that the original version of the bill has been substantially changed by legislative improvements and the Minister responsible has acceded to their position, they will vote against it. They thus prove that they are exercising opposition to the opposition, having come into discomfort and confusion, after their last destructive account and the promotion of governmental work, and by voting for bills that have a social sign. Furthermore, the two opposition parties appear to be ignoring the way in which the parliamentary procedure is used, because the social bodies, the bills are being discussed, processed, and sometimes the government responds to ideas, opinions, even to objections from the social actors and opposition parties, although they are founded. The current government has proved to be open to dialogue. This has been the case. The efforts of the New Democracy and PASOK to show the Government of retreat are only made to create impressions. The regulation of this bill aims to establish transparency, prevent tax evasion and underground transactions, which are often carried out in favour or at the expense of some or all of the companies involved in the media sector, the advertising market and the regional - provincial press. Such arrangements shall be based on the letter and on the spirit of the provisions of Articles 15(2) and 14(9) of the Constitution. Therefore, all objections to unconstitutionality raised are unstable. Article 15(2) provides that radio and television is to be directly controlled by the State. Moreover, according to Article 14(9), ‘the property regime, the financial situation and the means of financing the media must be known, as laid down by law. The law provides for the measures and limitations necessary to ensure full transparency and pluralism in information.’ In this constitutional context, broadcasting frequencies, as public property and as a public asset, and their exploitation, derivatives, products and resources resulting therefrom in any form, in particular from television time management and advertising, are subject to the necessary limitations, terms and conditions, in order to ensure transparency in the information area in all its manifestations. These restrictions, terms and conditions are provided for in this draft law. Since, therefore, the broadcasting frequencies are public property, a public asset, for what is derived from them, for example from the management of television time, advertising, the State may and must lay down rules, which is the case in law. It does so through the electronic advertising platform, in a way that everyone who wants to be able to participate in the advertising market, and not just those who are well-known, not to exclude anyone, to record all advertising and, moreover, to be treated on an equal footing with a transparent approach at all levels. The same applies to the Regional-Regional Press Register. Ladies and gentlemen, I would say that, behind some extreme, insulting, subversive designations of colleagues from the New Democracy and PASOK, the two parties' attempt to cover their disdain for transparency is hidden. I am sorry, but, gentlemen, you are allergic to transparency and equal treatment. Why is that? Is it because you have for decades been relying on a broadcasting system with features of opacity, transaction and unequal treatment and have become addicted to it and that is the only way you can survive? After all, this is also evidenced by a report by a colleague who said that advertising contracts are of no interest to anyone and should not be known by recording them on the electronic platform. Moreover, it is well known that the phenomenon of inter-territorial and corruption in the media sector - and not just - led the country to the rocks. In this context, the unholy relationship between the advertised banks and large enterprises with the media has played an important role, forming one of the manifestations of the interlocutory, as is apparent from the conclusion of the Committee of Inquiry to investigate the legality of the lending of SMEs and the parties by the banks. I would like to end by stressing that the adoption by the Government of the JRC's amendment, of a significant delay in paying the paid unilaterally damaging changes in terms of terms and conditions of work, proves that the government is open to realistic proposals which have a social value, and I would say that it responds to the common sense and the safeguarding of workers' rights and, furthermore, that there is a possibility of converging with all the progressive political forces, in this case with the JRC, as long as the proposed solutions move into the sphere of competence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u104	Thank you. Please beg us to be consistent in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u105	What time do you think the meeting will be closed, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u106	We want to close as fast as possible, at least before 15.00" we have voted. Now I'm saying that because Mrs. Asmakopoulou was asking me. I would ask the rapporteurs not to give a second answer unless someone wants to say something about an amendment very specifically for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u107	We agree, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u108	I would ask everyone to be consistent in time and, if possible, to speak less, so that we can be in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u109	The parliamentary representative of the Communist Party, Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u110	Mr. Papaliou, with the distraction you are making, the so-called invitation to the KKE, you are trying to hide this great love that today manifested between SYRIZA and PASOK. However, Minister, the fine words of the great and the proclamations you make are crushed by your actions and, of course, by the barbaric reality that the workers live in, the wide popular strata. And it came to me, Minister, in my mind, an old slogan we used to call at the student amphitheaters in the 1980s. Of course, we were addressing the PSP at that time. What was that slogan saying? "Get a flash to the left and turn right." And as a result of this choice, there must be victims, such as the workers, of satisfying their people's needs, which you are sacrificing - like PASOK then - at the same time as you today - at the altar of the profitability of big capital. Minister, you have accepted the laws of the capitalist system and serve with every legislative initiative the interests of monopolistic groups. And this bill, the contradiction between words and works, is particularly revealing. It is, of course, part of a more comprehensive debate. And this debate is no other than the distribution and redistribution of the pit, the exploitation of the media, papers and electronics, in a special green landscape with frequent conflicts and alterations. And, of course, we are witnessing a project that continues, a collision of great importance and in terms that are curious - let me call them this way - among the great business interests that just want to gain a greater part of this 'pit.' And, of course, the Government is intervening in this game of competition, in this redistribution, with a view, on the one hand, to creating such an environment that is more friendly, as they have done before governments - you are not, Minister, as far as the private media is concerned, dealing with it and, of course, maintaining - as Mr Loverdos rightly said - that is how the previous governments have done - control over state television. Of course, this redistribution is not unblemished. It is at the forefront of the information, since it becomes a very convenient and useful tool in the hands of capital to defend its interests, to promote them, but also, of course, to overshadow the responsible, the real causes of the popular problems and, of course, to confuse radical, subversive views and perceptions of the only realistic way out for the benefit of the people, which is no other than the overthrow of the capitalist system and the construction of socialism. Apart from being at the expense of information, it is also on the backs of workers in the industry, working relationships - tireless, redundancies of pre-service workers, collective agreements and their replacement with a disposable workforce, the intensification of work, the intensification of hunger wages, the great delays in the payment of employees. Of course, these great delays in the payment of recruits are not only observed in the media but are a general phenomenon. And there was a rubber legislation all this time, resulting in decisions taken by the courts and the C.E. In this case, they should put exactly the back on this immunity of business groups and close the eyes to the living conditions of the workers. We have tabled an amendment. We have no illusions that this amendment will deal with the phenomenon of the delay in payment of workers, but at least there will be at least one greater protection for workers. Why, precisely through this amendment and stricter and more specificising the legislative framework, so that these escape paths do not exist for the decisions of the judiciary. So the delay in the payment of the accrued is that it is a harmful unilateral change in the employment relationship and that the considerable delay we put in to be regarded as a harmful change means to us that it can be from one day to one month's delay in wages. That's it. Because from there on it doesn't just mean much delay, it means much more. Because the employee from this wage must survive, meet the needs of the family and pay for everything, bills, tax, etc. So it's very specific when we say it's a worthwhile delay. We determine her by a month. Of course, we have added the second paragraph to specify even more who are responsible by putting in and by the main shareholders. But look at that. Here is a proverb. Because Mr Brutsis of the New Democracy said there is a very strict legal framework that protects workers. In my village, however, they say that "whoever doesn't want to sift just sift." There was this legal framework, but when was it implemented? Let us give concrete examples. I'm not just talking about Easter Christmas gifts, are there any more, which have been intervention by the state's supervisory bodies to go to some of these big people who owe many months themselves to the self-sacrifice and pay fines? When has this strict legislative framework been implemented? And, of course, I now come back to the media, to say that the conditions prevailing with regard to workers, the time when you are government, that is, about three years, have deteriorated. Even worse barbarism prevails in this area. Even at the ERT, which you have the authority, let us say so, that collective agreements do not apply, there is no recognition of the pre-service for a number of workers in the ERT area. And it is not only this environment that has been formed, but you come with the amendment you are bringing, Mr Minister, and you offer them gifts. The first gift you make to the big-fashioned ones is the ones who will get the permits. Where three years of payment of instalments of the price was, you are taking it in a decade's depth. "Ask me May to eat clover," they say in my village. So it's a very big gift, which can also be changed along the way. After all, it is not forbidden to change this arrangement. Second gift. I remember, Minister, serious controversy we had here on the issues of the protection of workers at the new television stations, claiming that the four hundred people are meeting the needs and improving the environment of the workers. In fact, then, you, as an anti-business to the criticism of the JRC, brought a joint ministerial decision from you, together with the Minister of Labour, which would determine the percentages that should be present from every speciality and share these four hundred people. And today you are coming with your amendment and you are abrogating this ministerial decision. So you say just one 'four hundred'. What will these four hundred be? In other words, there will be thirty, forty, fifty technicians and journalists, and the remaining three hundred and fifty will be general tasks, they will be general-use, they will be gardeners, they will be bakers, they can be anything. What's going on in this way? What do you achieve in this way? What you are achieving is nothing more than compressing wages, as you call it, costing employers, so further reducing the price of labour force, the value of labour force, so that you have very cheap workers and without rights. That's what you did. A new gift. And, of course, there are also your declarations to reduce the tax burden on companies operating in the media. Likewise, the redistribution of advertising pie, rationalisation and enforcement of rules was with this online platform you want to put. And you have even declared that you will step on black trade and tax evasion through it. But other intentions are also the act. You come and change the mandatory, and you make it optional. In other words, you are turning the treasure into coal. And you reminded me, Minister, a song by Vassilis Papaconstantinou, who was trying to find the rat that's gonna catch the cat. You will, in other words, step on tax evasion and black conciliation! Thousands of years were trained, never succeeded. Because that's exactly the system, and that's the system you're defending. And let me dedicate this song to you, Minister, and in particular to the last two lyrics: "But as if you have no guts to do them, let them be better, don't say them." And from this point of view we would like, Minister, to sanctify, as our people say, but you do not allow us to do so. We would like to show, in other words, a tolerance for this electronic platform, not to vote against it and to vote 'at present'. But with the change you do, you do not even leave us. You are leading us to vote against it, as is, of course, a number of other articles and, in principle, the bill. In conclusion, I would like to say that this redistribution of the pie - which you want to impose - is carried out at the expense of information, it is done at the back of the workers in the field and, of course, you are speeding up and making it easier for the process of concentration in a few hands, in large business groups, such as those in the audiovisual sector. The environment you are shaping works for the benefit of business groups that are active in and at the expense of the creators. The same goes for the regional press. Concentration promoted. And, of course, the key issue - it has been mentioned by our rapporteur, among other things - is what is provided for in the OECD toolbox and is an important issue for the survival of the provincial press, namely the abolition of the publications of basic revenues. And all you do is give a simple extension to the bankruptcy that leads the provincial press and its concentration to a few business groups. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In this respect - and I am finishing, Mr President - we are voting against this draft law in principle. In the individual articles and amendments, we shall be placed in the vote and in the second part of our rapporteur's.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u111	Thank you to Mr Karathanasopoulos and to the consistency of time. Mr Kyritsis, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes with an economy in time, if possible, because we have been out of programme. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today is not of an ideological nature, as were the two bills which we discussed during this week. In the education bill the government side put the issue of better education for all inclusive income-based education. The side of Antipoliticism presented education as a privilege for a few, as a championship covered behind the cover of excellence. The Health Act again entered health as a public good on the one hand, and health as a commodity, as something that can be the subject of the market on the other. However, this draft law does not have such a conflict of two worlds or an ideological conflict. It is only a legislative initiative, which is part of what we would call the necessary urban modernisation. It is a bill, that is, trying to regulate certain issues in the chaos of SMEs, namely to strengthen transparency and restrict immunity. For those who have nursed in this area, it is quite clear how important it is to have rules on traffic and advertising. However, one outside observer, either sees the SME market as a 250 million market, or sees it as a market with 1.5 billion debts and maritime loans, or sees it institutionally as a fourth power, he understands that these issues cannot remain unregulated. Now, as far as the law is concerned, because the opposition is trying to build on previous decisions of the Council of State and even though I think most of its rapporteurs do not come from the positive sciences, it is clear that if we remove the seven infinite, it remains infinite, if we remove the seventeen, it remains three. The three are less than infinite, so it is obvious that it is much closer to the government's perception and the decision of the S.H.E. except for the objections of opposition. I am therefore concerned that opposition has a difficulty in accepting even so simple legislation, which should be self-evident. We often talk about the maliciousness of the country and we give it to the so-called traits of the race, the "DNA of the Greeks", in which - supposedly - the slander and irrationality is recorded. That's all nonsense. The chaos, the irrationality and all that didn't happen, but, to use the cliché, they did. It is but a set of mechanisms and methods through which the ruling class is traditionally bleaking the country. If you want me to remind you of the time-consuming scandal of OSTH, which was cured by the government's legislative initiative ten days ago, which we had a private transport service provider in Thessaloniki, with a third of Athens's respective fleet, which is public, to absorb the same money and, indeed, by methods that are least imaginable, not to use a phrase that would have other consequences. The present government is therefore obliged to make legislative efforts to modernise. This bill, which will be passed, is another reform in this direction. I believe that so-called liberals, Europeans and modernists should support such initiatives for modernization and Europeanisation and not treat them like the devil! They have the opportunity to vote for the bill as a whole to show that they are not so discriminatory in favour of the interests of canalarchs, publishers, etc. And because I have a little time on the agenda and because it is on the agenda, for reasons why the opposition knows, the Venezuelan issue, we heard Mr Mitsotakis say yesterday that there would be a committee of inquiry, that I should also contribute a little bit to this dialogue, because it has something to do with the media. Venezuela was not established a month ago when the opposition took it. Let's go back to 2002. In April 2002, therefore, there was a coup d'état in Venezuela in Chavez. This coup succeeded on the first day, the President of Venezuela's BSE president took over, abolished the Constitution, the parliament, the rulers of the regions - because he is a federal state - gathered all power in his hands. Chaves refused to resign. The channels didn't mention it. In the same afternoon the dictator continued the channels for the help they gave him to get rid of Chaves. Also, the United States and the American Union rushed to accept and recognise the new situation. The next day there was the biggest demonstration ever in this country and the junta that was established just the day before. This demonstration was not transmitted by the channels or news. The next day, Chavez had back properly, and what did he do on the channels and the coups of dictators? He gave them amnesty. That, to have that in mind too, when we open the dialogue on how elites work with the media and what stories they set up from here and there. And I want Venezuela to present an excellent article in the newspaper 'Kathimerini'. It has not been written "SUNDAY". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr. Kritsi. Mr. Nicos Paraskeviopoulos, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes and less.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u114	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, much has been said about the contents of the bill, in fact it has been analysed in the main chapters and I will not tire you at all with the repetition of what has been said. What I'm going to try to do is include this piece of legislation, which will be passed today, in the sequence of legislation. A narrative is the modern term that is usually used. I shall therefore try to include it in the account of rationalisation and the clearance, I would say, of the landscape of broadcasting and digital means of service for telecommunications. There have been very important steps in this area. The first, in my opinion, of course was the resumption of the ERT. But then, as also an important process, we had the process of controlling sea-fashionage, which proceeded with our own Committee of Inquiry. As is well known, the material of this committee of inquiry and the problem of sea-fashioning was largely related to loans to television companies, to large-scale companies, and of course this examination allowed many strange moves to appear. The third step towards clearing and rationalisation is, of course, progress towards the formal authorization of the operation of radio frequencies and channels-related enterprises. This procedure has not gone as fast as we would have liked, because the crisis of the Council of State has taken place. I personally do not agree with this crisis, but, in any case, my humility - to say so - is not so important that that matters. The view of the Council of State certainly had to be implemented. We have a delay, therefore, but despite the delay and that we are approaching licensing, it is very obvious and, in terms of rationality, as the decision on the minimum percentage for participation in the tender procedure has shown, but we also had the establishment of the PSE, which has been delayed so long. We know that this institution had remained with few members, which also means a guarantee of rationalisation in this area. The fourth step is what is being done today: rationalisation of the advertising system. This is particularly the case here, as well as some other related issues relating to broadcasting - I would say - an economy. You know, it is very important to legislate and despite what many opposition MPs have said, saying that, in so far as the tender has been put into practice, and we only have the record, modernism is not very important, I must say that recording all transactions relating to transparency and with the ability to criticise and control anyone is a very important step towards rationalising, controlling the broadcasting landscape, but also for controlling the black money. In other words, I do not agree with the way in which the honourable Member, Mr Vorides, raised the matter. He showed it, of course, a little bit with terminology of a police novel about what happened this weekend. He's not here right now, but I told him in private. He also said what registration is offering on a platform where everyone will be able to read, when we know that the fight against black money is not done in this way, but it is because the money is no longer available too much because of controls. It's a big mistake. I have the impression that the police Mr. Voridis reads are a little obsolete. If he read more modernly, he would know that the circulation of black money in our time is not done in the traditional way of the suitcase and boxes of the Peppers carrying cash, because this has two problems. One is that the carrier can be arrested and the second is that the receiver of the money then has to clear it up and there can also be arrested without limitation, i.e. with a long time. In other ways, dark trade is taking place. A possible way - and think about it, I am not talking about the past, I am talking about the future, that is, the preventive possibility of this piece of legislation - is it not a counterweight to be a privileged overpriced, if you want, advertising or vice versa, advertising a product or works of a low-priced businessman? Isn't that all gonna look like now? Is this not going to prevent obscure antidotes for various benefits in black, illegal, which have precedented? Of course, there are other ways. Let us not teach here and before the world that listens to us about the way the black economy operates today. One thing is certain: the black economy is definitely fighting transparency. It fights it both in the past and in the future. That is why this bill is very important. Beyond these very important steps, which others are integrated and others in progress, Minister, you have also given the charismatic shot. You gave some limited responsibilities to the "ERT3" in Thessaloniki. This is very important. All Thessalonians are pleased. And if your initiative has not been more applauded, it is because many Members are rather Athenians or even oppositioners. Many are both Athenians and opposers. However, this is also very important for the ability to function geographically in the area of broadcasting. Of course, I referred to the last item in a light manner. But all the other steps are very important. This transparency introduced by this piece of legislation seems to me to be bringing much into the broadcasting landscape. I hope you keep going! Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr. Friday. The Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, Mr Megalomustakas, has the floor for 12 minutes. Mr President, if you are making it easier for us, as did previous colleagues, to do, it will be good.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Mr President, I will try to facilitate your work, especially what you have asked me to do. We are at the end of the second year - for me as a parliamentarian - and I understand what our position is. It is a responsibility, in which we must respond accordingly to what the world is asking for and not just what we have in mind. We must understand that we are not just here to highlight what the problems are, but also to provide solutions to these problems and not to create them, but to find out what exactly is wrong in our society, what the world is asking for and to help to solve these problems immediately. Reading the minutes of the committees - because I am not a member of this committee - I understood that the big issue was whether the previous ones in the government had actually destroyed the television field, as none of the Canadians were paying. There was an immunity, there was absolutely no control. That's the way things came. We have seen what is happening now, we have seen what is happening with the channels that are owed to the workers, we have seen what has happened with the sea loans, as well as with the examination, but I do not see anything essential from this examination, whereas the opposition - not us, above all the Major Opposition - has stood up to the fact that a law that was unconstitutional and that you have tried to create a new bouquet of instruments that you will manage. It's not what people want. It's not the essence of things there, unfortunately. So by reading the draft law at first of the titles, I was positive. I think that nine out of ten Greeks who will read it, seeing who are the headlines of the funds, will say that the Minister has rightly made this move. However, the issue is not what we are bringing here, but how we bring it, how we manage it. I mean, in words, it's all easy and I wish they could go as you write it down. In implementation, however, it is the issue. We saw that in the first chapter, which you actually wanted to fight monopolies and provide analogue funding for all the media, you changed a lot. You changed, because you might have been afraid, as they claim other wings, that it was unconstitutional to what you suggested. I hope that these changes are not due to a lack of planning, as you have shown many times in this Chamber and are due to consensus, cooperation and real dialogue. I have listened very carefully to what you said earlier, that we cannot vote and swear. I fully agree with that. We are here to find out what the wrong thing is for us or what point can be improved and that is what we are asking for, that is not absurd. Let's go to the second chapter, with which you want to regulate the issues of the regional and local press. Good. We have seen what has happened for so many years, how the money has been shared, how the local press has often acted as a means of pushing Members, especially the government, and that has to be struck. Welcome to such a move, but how? No consultation. We have listened very carefully to the institutions. You had no debate at all with the local and regional press bodies. I mean, it's like you're deciding about them without them. We think it would be useful to have cooperation, to have open ears and eyes for the problems that exist and to express them to you by those who know them better than everyone else. I also see in Article 14 of the second chapter that you are obliged to employ two journalists who will be insured in ECA. There is that, but a solution must be found and what will be done with all those who work black in many of these instruments, under supposedly volunteering. There are other problems that you would have seen and heard if there were discussions with the relevant bodies. We want to protect the local and regional authorities as well as the workers working there and we hope that this will be done in practice. Let's go to the third chapter, which introduces the barcode. It's something they were all asking for. I wonder, for so many years the previous governments have not made such a move, as only so can it be measured and not fictitiously the figures, but indeed, how many newspapers are sold, what newspapers are preferred by the world and, accordingly, public subsidies go. In other words, I cannot accept the parties who have so far been in power to make criticisms of this because they have been able to bring it to themselves and have simply not done so. We need to weigh a little what we say, weigh what we have done in the past and what we can do for a better future. Let's go to the fourth and last chapter, with which you create a framework for supporting the production of audiovisual works. Yeah, that's something I personally have asked of from this one. It is self-evident in 2017 that we arrived and in a short time the films will be filmed in studios with animation and computers and we are now deciding to create a framework. You do well and we congratulate you on that. However, it is still not the right way to do so. I mean, when we come to how that happens, we think there's a gap. Why should everything be defined and controlled by the Minister? Perhaps there should be a cross-party committee, to which others should have a say. This is very important. We think it can help growth. We have seen what happened in the islands where films have been filmed, which have been successful. We saw what the move was next, but the move that was on the island, when the movie was back there. We therefore need to support this effort. We must support all the efforts that bring growth and that is how we must go. Unfortunately, we're late to bring it. And not us, who's in now, but everyone else. This is important, trying to see what the real problems are and to solve them. We cannot constantly get on with this step and say that we have started to solve the problem, a problem that should have been solved for years or the first step. That's unauthorized. We cannot tell the citizens, who are currently having these difficulties, these difficulties, that we are now starting to take the first steps for something that should have been solved for years. It must be definitive, and this should also be the case with the amendment tabled by the JRC, which, by studying it very carefully, I fear - and not maliciously from the JRC - may cause problems for workers, as the legislative framework does not protect workers. If these businesses - which are unpaid indeed, and these people must live - go bankrupt, then they will lose everything. They will also lose the wages, which have not been paid, and they will lose their compensation. We need to look more closely at the problem. Perhaps so - and I am not in any way accusing the JRC at the moment - that the big businessmen, those who will wait for someone to go bankrupt, dissolve and only take the facilities, machines, without debts. We must be careful and flexible. This House must have rapid reactions, which has learned since the seven years of crisis. We must all try for the best, through cooperation, through society in particular, with open ears and open eyes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u117	Thank you to Mr Megalostakas and to the time aid. The Minister has the floor for thirty seconds for a legal correction. We can hear you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr President. In Amendment No 1223/11, paragraph 1 of the first Article is deleted and the following paragraphs are renumbered accordingly.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u119	I would ask that Members be given the improvement they have made. We're on our way with Mr. Ballis, SYRIZA MP, for eight minutes and less.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr President. I sense the indiscretion of all colleagues to end this. He will understand this pressure much more than Mr Tsiaras, who is the last speaker on the list. Because I really...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u121	It's me, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u122	Oh, there's Mrs. Vaki after... We have heard too much these two days in this Chamber. It wasn't all that much of a relationship with the contents of the bill. Others had less and others had nothing to do with the bill. I do not know if we will go out of this debate with an improvement in our constitutional knowledge, as Mr Vorides said, but we will definitely go out or go out with an improvement in our historical knowledge, following the truly interesting historical report made by Mr Javaras on July Caesar and Ruvikon yesterday. He has knowledge, he has the euphoria to tell beautifully. It was really an interesting historical reference. I'm guessing it wasn't the report because the only relationship that this story has with information is that Caesar actually introduced the first newspaper, Acta Diurna, but I imagine you said it to charge us because of Ruvikon in July Caesar. You'll keep Pompey that way, apparently.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u123	I'm with Pompey.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u124	But Pompey was the loser of history. I would remind you that in the controversy with July Caesar, Caesar won, Pompey had lost. We have heard from other anti-population colleagues, again the reports on Venezuela and Maduro. The only relationship they've got is that Madour is Madurus of censorship. We heard it from the most eminent historian and honourable friend, in his own handwritten note sent to him by Stylianos Pattakos of censorship tanks. Of course, the rapporteur of each party is on the pretext of this tone. So we listened with interest to the rapporteur of the New Democracy, who aggressively made a detailed reference to what the bill includes, a report in the journalistic language. It was incomplete, however, why did he not have the answers to the main questions of each report, to answer what, where, when, and why? There were no answers, only reports of aggressiveness in what the bill includes. So I'll ask a few questions, waiting for the answers. Should there not be a framework of transparency and legality in the management of television advertising time? Should trade be stopped under the table, so that there is a benefit to advertisers and consumers of these products? Do newspapers have to have transparency in their traffic data and do it with barcode? Does this register have to be in place, which will facilitate and must start very soon, if they have not already started, controls from the relevant audit levels, so that we can see the legality of the sector that has not been in existence for many years? Does the regional press have to be serious, have credibility and validity, operate under rules and not without control? Of course you do. Are all the things that are included in the bill, all that we would like to have as an integrated framework? Clearly, no. It is what we can do in today's specific regulatory framework that is shaped by the commitments and agreements made by the country. I am amazed that the Vice-Presidents of the Commission, who are concerned about what is provided for in the OECD toolbox, are negatively referred to as those of us who want and can do. We didn't bring the OECD toolbox, we didn't put it on the table. We found her on the table. If I remember correctly, you are voting against everything, while what the OECD toolbox contains, you are voting in favour of it. Unfortunately, he's putting a restraining frame. We are, however, creating, in spite of all these limitations, an initial framework of transparency, control and rules in operation. There's gonna be more to come. We're at the beginning of a story, at the beginning of an effort, and there's more to it. Is it good, of course, that, indirectly, all the speakers from the Opposition acknowledged that tax evasion in the press, television and the press has so far been announcing, but you are asking us: 'Would you take the tax evasion? Tax evasion was annoyed." We start the rules to arrest this tax evasion and hope and we are sure that we will have results. Let me make a more extensive reference - in my time, Mr President, do not worry - on regional press issues, because there is a lot to be said. The question is. What kind of regional press do we want? How do we have them in our minds? And what mission do we think the regional press should have? To avoid misunderstanding, anyone can issue a publication, call it a newspaper and self - anointed publisher. Does this mean that this form, a paper printed as it pleases everyone, must also have state attention and state aid, as long as aid is still available through public publications? No, of course not. Our aim and intention must be to strengthen and assist the press, which will create stable jobs, which will have a seriousness, and which will have a fairness and honesty. Not the regional press whose only concern will be how to become a state-runner, as long as it is a state-runner and then an unknown future. Let me tell you, Minister, and you do a little! Let me ask you to increase jobs, to increase the number of pages, to increase traffic limits, because only in this way will we be able to have serious, severe, regional newspapers, which will be a development resource for their region. After all, the path of partnerships for smaller newspapers that can create stronger publishing groups is open. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr Ballis, SYRIZA MP. Mr Constantine Tsiaras, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today the first curtain falls, a project that we saw evolved from October to November 2015. It was then that the government attempted in an unacceptable way for us, with an anti-constitutional law that was subsequently proved to create control conditions in the media. Since then, the truth has been that it has been a long time and things have changed. Responsibilities have been left by the Minister who had the ambition of having full and absolute control and, of course, was given to the competent independent authority, as New Democracy backed up at the very first time. What have we seen all this time, really? There was a substantial effort, I would say, to present a completely different reality from the one that the government had to accept. For example, the seven television licences proposed by the National Broadcasting Council today are presented more or less as the government's position. Obviously, one must remember what the government said at the time, how things evolved and where, of course, they may arrive. And I say this because the position of the New Democracy has been quite specific and completely clear since the first time. An open television spectrum with a number of permits that the market itself can define. The truth is that we all pointed out that this would be about the number rather than the number four - to which the Minister stood at that time - or even a smaller number as proposed by other members, officials or possibly also officials of the Government or of the House. It is extremely impressive to see how this legislation has been evolving in the last few years. The Minister has come to the relevant parliamentary committee, and more or less he has said that only anyone who benefits from the grey areas of money trafficking, apparently meaning the market in advertising, can be afflicted with such passion in the legislation that he originally proposed. The good thing is that, three times ago, the Minister, as far as we all know, adopted some twenty-two legislative improvements - of course, in the development and conclusion of the debate, we have much more - which one to one was the proposals of market players, which were actually changing this particular piece of legislation in depth. Here, of course, Minister, two things may happen. Either you must admit that the original piece of legislation that you have brought in has been unconstitutional and you have had to withdraw it, so that you do not again find yourself accountable to a process in which you have been in the past, or you have finally registered with the interests and canals that have indicated to you the changes in your legislation, and so you have to admit that the Government is finally forced to convince the interests, or this gray area in the advertising market you have spoken about and denounced. But the point is, obviously, that with all that is being done and evolving, the government has not been taught either of what is happening and coming as a result in the field of justice as decisions or much more of the common sense that one must invoke against any ideological or position which sometimes dictates any political choices. Of course, if I have to say two more words about the bill, I will say 'yes', who doubts and who doubts that it was necessary to regulate the television scene or that a very large part of all these arrangements that you bring today should at some point be discussed and move forward in the best possible way. But when all this comes through a conflict or through an amendment of an initial choice, to a very large extent it is incomplete and does not answer the specific questions that one should see. Of course the barcodes system must enter. Of course, television time through a management platform should be able to create justice conditions for all the media. But all this is done - I repeat - through last-minute choices, without actually delimiting the rules of the free and open market. For this is what we are talking about, ladies and gentlemen, and not about another reality - and I am sorry to say this in Venezuela - which has been mentioned by many colleagues from this step.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u127	Oh, my God, Mr. Comrade!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u128	I didn't mean to make any such reference, Mrs. Vakis. Unfortunately, it is your colleagues who were trying to justify unjustifiedness after each other. However, in a completely different reality the sooner we understand the conditions and rules of the market, it is assumed that the sooner we will make legislation, which will facilitate the government itself, but much more will have a resonance on the future of the Greek society and the Greek economy. There is a serious objection to the regional press arrangements. This objection could be focused, on the one hand, on the number of cards finally provided by the Minister, perhaps on the area, that is, the number of pages finally identified for each newspaper, but, above all, I think it could be focused on the fact that this 30% allocated under advertising quota does not ultimately have a specific breakdown and, possibly, this whole story should go elsewhere with issues and problems, which I believe the government will find very quickly in front of it. Of course, all the revenues from state entries that are being abolished after 2020 - that will not exist for the regional press - will create a huge problem. The New Democracy has stood in a very specific way, against all the issues relating to the regulations on broadcasting and the media. We are not the ones who changed our position. The government has changed it to a very large extent, but it still needs several steps on its side to prove that it really can understand what is happening around it today. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like to close, Mr President - with your little tolerance - with a comment I am forced to make, because both the Prime Minister and two, three days ago and the President of Parliament yesterday had to respond in a concrete way to the continuing questions raised by the President of the New Democracy about the misdemeanour. Because, ladies and gentlemen, this is actually the last sitting before the little rest, since the short day of the House's closure, I wish and wish to believe that our return here will find us with a completely different attitude. I am saying this because I realise that the President of the Parliament had to answer, since not only did the Prime Minister not respond, but more or less he tried to make a set-aside himself. But if we want to say things by their name, I am sure that none of our colleagues, even the majority of the government, will agree with a practice which has literally been established in the Greek Parliament in recent years. It is a matter of dignity to all fellow Members. In the seven draft laws of July, ladies and gentlemen, ninety-eight amendments have been tabled and I do not count the last ones today. At some point we have to be serious. Of course, a majority of these, the seventy-one amendments, are ministerial amendments, as if the government were not aware of what it should do and at the last moment should be guided by a procedure which, as you know, does not presuppose either a report from the General Accounting Office of the State or a report from the Scientific Committee and has to adopt almost whole bills in the form of amendments. He's not honoring any of us, he's not honoring the government. It offends the parliamentary procedure. I think this is a major issue, which we all need to highlight with a completely different logic from here and beyond in the operation of the Greek Parliament. You know the evidence is indisputable, the evidence obviously exists. Any comparison can be made with great comfort from our side. But, in contrast to figures at the moment, for a process which is, in fact, a bad piece of legislation, I think I will not help. However, I would like to believe that our return to the Greek Parliament will find us with a completely different view. By the way, since history is always an object of discussion from the Step of the House, Pompey did lose. But you know what happened after Pompey after Pompey's defeat? Democracy's lost. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u129	We thank Mr Tsiara and we will agree with him that we should improve the level of legislation from the new period. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Fotini Vakis, has the floor for twelve minutes or less.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u130	I will respect the unpopularity of the short holidays. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on our last bill before our short summer holidays is a very intense one. It is the truth, in the summer, of the parliamentary process of voting for bills that we are adopting this time poorly, because these were bills implementing a second parallel programme. Let me have a few words. These are bills which mark the efforts of the social state and whose debate has finally shown that we have two opposite visions and worthwhile guidelines for society. For you the famous "invisible hand" of the market will regulate, dismantle, say me, tuition and hospitals, while for us the "invisible hand" of the state considers health and education social goods, major public goods and foundations of prosperity. For you, it is toxic every classic bias in favour of the weak, the students and the supermarket hospitals as we have heard and, of course, the reason for the counter-population is a great patient these days - and I regret to say it - who is supported by some bad and unwittingly repetitive 'copy-paste' neoliberal funding, extreme right-wing teaching, a counterattack of nationalism that refers to unfamiliar times, but also a staggering theory of the two extremes that this time equates the Left by force or considers it the moral motive of terrorism and the enemy of freedom and of course have heard lies, insulting and making news. Opposition colleagues is not make news. At one time Parliament's space and the public sphere was a field of intense ideological conflicts with positions and arguments and now it tends to become a parapolitical gossip and trustworthy I say to you, on the basis of the glazed presentation of Ruvik and July Caesar by my colleague, Mr Javarra, to take care that you do not read another Ruvik of the parliamentary and democratic ethos and some of the Professional opposition not to make New Democracy, that it is related to democracy as much as classical liberalism - who has spoken about market freedom, but has spoken about political and social rights - and that is neoliberalism in which you swear on the night. And to my colleagues in the Democratic Participation to express my grief, because in the draft law on education which was discussed yesterday and the day before yesterday, you abominably abducted your own political child, L.1268 for universities, which was essentially a section, but also the health bill which was discussed yesterday and the day before, which is an institutional crown of the ESS of late Giorgos Gennamata. In the long run, however, there was also something else. Your special relationship with the terms 'public' and 'private'. I'm explaining myself to education. Universities with unaccompanied tuition fees and poor teaching fees, and at the same time the excellence of photocopy in schools, school merging, sacked two and a half thousand teachers, and obsolete universities, because they homeed scandalously over-graduate masters. In the health of the five euros for the people, but free hospitals for high-paid, slow-wages - we listen - to chosen "losers" and certain costs for uninsured people - deleted these debts - which then made the disastrous error sicken and need to read the threshold of a hospital. Black money from overpriceds and prescriptions, medical tourism on exotic islands and at the same time fired some thousands of doctors. But let's go now. In the committees and in plenary on education you asked for the abolition of asylum in order to combat the great scourge of education, which is, of course, the student movement and the occupations of universities as a man of illegality and infraction. But there are also some occupations, which for twenty - eight years you have defended with passion and given them asylum generously. Of course, I am referring to your friends as canalarchs, to the occupations of public frequencies of a public constitutionally dominated good such as that of information. We asked last year, rhetorically, whether or not the use of frequencies should be authorized, while opening a pavilion is authorized. Or should the status of fifteen extensions of temporary licences be extended indefinitely? Of course, the only attempt then made through the ERT's 'black' was to grant the frequency range to a single contractor who was the 'DIGEA', i.e. the canals consortium of EUR 18 million with a 15-year payment. So we had the sad first, the frequency provider and the client being the same person. Another sad first, therefore, which is undermining the argument of the free market that you enjoy very much. A free market, on the one hand, does not mean an inconsistent and illegal market and, on the other, a free market, but, on the other, it appears that it has not been free and unjustly criticising political support for the 'individuals'. Tiny way? With those wealthy loans to air cut off or not like with a lot of nerve and redness, he had declared a well-known publisher to the Committee of Inquiry last year, which were guaranteed by political friends against communal exchanges, which, of course, none other than the pluralism of the information. So not a free market, but a kurt. Since you are the neoliberal crusaders of the neoliberal economy, you want the citizen to pay for all public goods, but not the businessman, but to make profits at the expense of the public interest. I remember, in fact, all these fine jobs we talked about last year in the media and people were asking, if all these businesses that survived in sea-loving were to be viable, and where, in fact, their sustainability was reflected. The redundancies? On the blocks? In the circumvention of working hours? Because, of course, the veritable sums of borrowing and advertising injections have never reached the workers, and we also had a foam of extortional individual contracts with reductions in pay and redundancies of those who refused to consent. Of course, last year, we heard about a junta, about a macronese, about fascists and other unworthy comments, and on the occasion of that limitless range of frequencies which eventually proved to be finite, and about the starting price for the PSE, from what we have seen, it has cost almost the same price. So the bill we are debating today sets light on the shadow-economy zone and puts an end to the practices that have created and maintained a status of economic and political manipulation in the information sector for years. So we want there to be transparency in the allocation of television time from the channels? Do we want this process to be linked to fiscal transparency mechanisms that govern all other economic transactions? Why does tax transparency harm the freedom of contracts? Is there or not this platform connected to the Independent Public Exit Authority, in which all transactions will be recorded? I believe that anyone who does not want there to be a platform for the electronic disposal of television time, is because this is not at the end of the day for the big companies, which form consumer behaviour through the control of access to advertising time. With the new system you know very well that those who have been monopolizing the top shelf for decades in the sales chains will not be able to monopolize advertising time. So they will not be able to control and form consumer behaviour - and not just - in the way they have done all these years. The system will therefore allow small and medium-sized access to high-screening areas to be made available electronically. This is an element that seems to be disturbing to all those who are present with the body of defenders of the free markets. Free markets, however, and advertising time manipulation are a form of oxymomile, it is a contradiction in terms. It also touched on a number of issues concerning the introduction of the electronic code marking on transparency in the sales of printed media. The secret problem of some is that manipulation of traffic-related sizes creates a profit. This creates a market distortion which favours ‘advertising bubble’ conditions. Transparency also favours tax evasion and ultimately reduces the quality of the whole press in our country. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] While added to this and everything that has come in the light of publicity in recent years, in relation to the action of the various interests in the distribution of public advertising, we understand how deep the roots have created the triangle of the country's economic life. I would also like to mention the regional press issues here. The regional press undeniably creates a lung of democracy, a pillar of information. It is a very important social institution and should be treated with great sensitivity. The regional press must also have revenues. It is a oxymovement, the Acoustic Opposition is being cut today for the survival of the local media, when it had abolished the compulsory public balance sheet, an arrangement that at the time the regional press lost a very important resource. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just one minute, your tolerance. The regional press, ladies and gentlemen, must also have access to advertising pie, which has never been implemented by previous governments. That is the objective of the register we are creating. All entities are in agreement with the creation of this registry. We all recognise its necessity in relation to transparency in local and regional information, because in the regional press there are cases of oligopolistic practices and we knew it very well. It is also important, ladies and gentlemen, that the question of strengthening the production of audiovisual media in Greece, where the country is dynamically entering this particular field. And the international audiovisual productions that are interested in Greece and also in Greek productions are treated with the bill as interesting investments which, apart from economic gains, add value to the intensity of knowledge and to the wider cultural added value.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u131	Please hang up soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u132	Give me a minute. Because things have been heard, let me have two issues. The first is that bubbles are not subsidised under the relevant provisions, but the productions that have been completed, have cut evidence and have paid insurance contributions. In other words, there is no subsidy in advance but also in retrospect. I shall close with one comment, Mr President. Thank you for your tolerance, too. I'm done with this. Finally, I would like to welcome the fact that the Ministers accepted the amendment by the Communist Party of Greece that the non-payment of the accrued amounts to a harmful change in working conditions. Look, because the hardest reality, the hardest, most ruthless criticism comes from reality itself, I would like to take the opportunity to welcome this amendment and remind you here of a sad fact, which shows how devastating the change in working conditions was in the end than the failure to pay a wage. A woman a while ago, trapped in despair 15 months unpaid, killed herself. We must therefore speak from this step by talking about people who have no voice. Of course, no amendments, no legislation can give her life again. However, with such legislative initiatives we can, at least, give back - to those who are in this situation and who are hostage to the arbitraryness of the employer - their dignity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mrs. Vaki. In the context of completing the vote by 3 o'clock, the Minister will not speak. I would ask the parties' rapporteurs not to be posted or if they want one or two minutes for a comment. Tell me how you see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u134	We have a dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u135	Those of you who have something to say about the amendments will give you two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u136	Mr President, I would like to have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u137	Mr. Shahinides, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u138	Mr President, I will give my position to our parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u139	We will give the floor to Mrs Zarulia. Mrs Zaroulia, speak now to the rest of you talk about the amendments later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u140	Thank you very much. As far as the media, newspapers, radio and television stations are concerned, they operate in relation to the country's third political power, the popular nationalist movement of the Golden Dawn, completely undemocratic and unconstitutional. The times that do not slander us, which are not at all small, take care to silence our presence, as if we do not exist, despising the party that voted for hundreds of thousands of Greek citizens, whom they consider to be'second class' citizens. All of this is explained by the regime's ownership, which governs the media. Everyone in this country knows that newspapers, television stations and radio stations are controlled and directed by the few-growers of wealth who are their own owners and that is not democracy, it is wealthy, as the great Aristotle defines the states. It is no coincidence that luxury channels and large brochures with the great offers they share, even discount coupons for supermarkets, are on their pages full of ads of corporations and banks, which have literally looted the sweat of the Greek people. For his part, the National Broadcasting Council represents Pontius Pilate. In a recent communication on the exclusion of Golden Dawn, he issued a statement stating: "The PSE as an institution and, in particular, on the basis of Article 5(2) of the Constitution, is not entitled to distinguish parties or anyone else based on their political positions and political activity. In this particular party we have already notified our 24-11-2016 document addressed to the ERT and including, among other things, the following: "Section 2. However, no station is required, nor is it entitled to, to communicate in the same context, information and news, reasons or images, or conduct, in general, of parties or any other, which constitute, or incorporate, criminal offences, i.e. they are evaded in the real provisions, whether by the Criminal Code or by specific criminal laws, which provide for and punish the conduct concerned as criminal offences’. It is clear, therefore, that the independent authority - which has a duty under the Constitution to impose pluralism on television stations, whose frequencies are the property of the Greek people - violates its duty, since the channels systematically exclude us, without infringing - as stated in its communication - any particular law. It is dominates in this respect that the law of the jungle, where possible in this case it is the one that has the “broken” money, money from “sea” and overpriced public works contractors. The media, with regard to the Golden Dawn - I repeat - operate completely unethical, but you great democrats of the so-called constitutional arch do not give a damn about it. It was the yellow leaflets of dirty plutonium that talked about millions of euros in its fund, the Golden Dawn, illegal financing, hidden arsenals and much more. People were slandered by families, but the political system seemed incapable of keeping even the pretexts and imposing legality. Real freedom in newspapers and television stations is a matter of democracy, of true democracy, as it existed in ancient Athens, where "they are bought shut." This is in no way the case at all, but on the contrary, anyone who is a obedient servant of the system and has money, has information and information. The Tsipras - Kammenos government in all the lies it had made in the election and continues to say post-elections, said it would hit the media squabble, thick words without content, and simply the complication is changing hands. As regards the movement of Greek nationalists, the Golden Dawn, the exclusion remains from a system that also remains corrupt. But let them not think that with their lies, with their mud and their slander and with the conspiracy of silence, they will stop the golden and golden globes, who give a wonderful struggle in cities and villages, at every corner of Greece, preaching the truth of nationalism, which is the only and last hope to free Greekism from the hostilities. Of course, we will vote against the draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u141	We are going on to the rapporteurs who want to be placed on the amendments only.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u142	Mr President, I would like to refer to Ministerial Amendment 1222/7, which deals with the arrangements for financing port fuel in the light of increased needs due to the management of the refugee issue. I would like to remind the Minister of the following: precisely because no funds have been used throughout this period by the European Union for technical support and this money has been lost for the technical support of the port, which is why he is now forced to resort to such an amendment so that he can finance the fuels of the Port House. Obviously, we will support the provision of the port to be worthwhile. But from there on the Greek people know that the House should know that this money has never been used by the European Union's corresponding fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr. Papatheodorou. Mr. Katsotis, tell us about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u144	Mr President, I have had the impression that time will be given for dentistry. In any case, there is a serious matter with the amendment we tabled as a JRC. Yesterday Mrs Ahtsoglou was placed in the second part of the amendment, she claimed that there is the law, that there is criminal responsibilities, so there is no need to accept the second part. We said yesterday that our amendment has these two parts. Of course, the first thing that has been accepted is very important because it will be seen as a harmful change in the delay of the debts and when we talk about a good time - we are tabling this once again - we mean from the day on which the deceased day ends up to a month. A SYRIZA MEP also made the same observation. We would not object to it being included in the amendment. However, we say so, because the judges also appeal to the debate that is being held here in this House many times, to make some decisions. So the issue is essential and not legal. We, with our amendment, broadened the responsibility for the members of the board of directors and the main shareholder. It's not a few cases. Athens Ledra's employees are still waiting to get their jobs and their allowances for a year and a half. There, therefore, the main shareholder and the members of the board of directors have ‘slashed it’. The workers 'pay the marble'. If, therefore, you do not agree to tighten up this framework and be responsible for the main shareholder, the members of the board of directors, etc., then the problems that exist will not be dealt with. Yesterday the Ministry of Labour made tripartite with Zura and agreed in August to pay January. But can it be possible for workers to withstand all these months unpaid and, on the other hand, must they be consistent with PPC, ENPIA, the tax advisor and the survival they should have as families? We say that, to see if the framework really is sufficient or not enough. We say that it is not enough, so we say that it should be extended with this proposal that we have made. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] As far as the amendments are concerned, since we are going to one - one, if we are allowed to one - say some things, of course. Otherwise time is not enough for the eight amendments and the other two Members, to say one word for each. We shall therefore be waiting for the vote. Then we will clarify why we say 'yes' or 'no' or 'no' to the amendments and that should be written in the Minutes, Mr President, because we cannot now, since we are not given time, say for each amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u145	Very good. Thank you, Mr Katsotis. The debate on the principle, articles, amendments and the whole draft law of the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information is adjourned: "Electronic system for the provision of television advertising time, amendment of the n. 3548/2007, establishment of a register of regional and local types, special marking of a linear code in printed publications, establishment of an institutional framework for strengthening the production of audiovisual works in Greece and other provisions.’ Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u146	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u147	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u148	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u149	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u150	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u151	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u152	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u153	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u154	Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information: “Electronic system for the allocation of television advertising time, amendment of the No. 3548/2007, establishment of a register of regional and local types, special marking of a linear code in printed publications, establishment of an institutional framework for strengthening the production of audiovisual works in Greece and other provisions’ was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the vote on articles and amendments and they will be voted on separately.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u155	Mr President, can we vote per chapter? Don't go on an article. It's happened before.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u156	Wait a minute, please. Let's take a look at the funds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u157	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u158	Yes, Mr. Shahinides.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u159	In order to facilitate the Bureau from Articles 1 to 40, the Golden Dawn is to vote 'in favour'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u160	Good, thanks. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u161	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u162	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u163	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u164	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u165	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u166	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u167	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u168	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u169	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Can Article 2, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u170	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u171	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u172	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u173	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u174	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u175	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u176	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u177	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u178	Article 2 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can Article 3, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u179	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u180	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u181	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u182	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u183	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u184	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u185	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u186	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u187	Article 3 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 4, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u188	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u189	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u190	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u191	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u192	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u193	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u194	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u195	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u196	Article 4 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 5 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u197	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u198	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u199	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u200	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u201	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u202	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u203	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u204	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u205	Article 5 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u206	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u207	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u208	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u209	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u210	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u211	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u212	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u213	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u214	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u215	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u216	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u217	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u218	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u219	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u220	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u221	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u222	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u223	Article 7 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 8 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u224	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u225	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u226	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u227	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u228	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u229	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u230	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u231	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u232	Article 8 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u233	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u234	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u235	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u236	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u237	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u238	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u239	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u240	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u241	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 10 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u242	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u243	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u244	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u245	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u246	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u247	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u248	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u249	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u250	Article 10 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u251	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u252	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u253	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u254	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u255	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u256	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u257	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u258	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u259	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u260	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u261	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u262	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u263	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u264	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u265	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u266	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u267	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u268	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u269	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u270	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u271	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u272	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u273	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u274	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u275	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u276	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u277	Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 14 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u278	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u279	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u280	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u281	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u282	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u283	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u284	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u285	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u286	Article 14 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u287	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u288	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u289	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u290	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u291	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u292	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u293	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u294	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u295	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u296	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u297	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u298	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u299	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u300	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u301	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u302	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u303	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u304	Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u305	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u306	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u307	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u308	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u309	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u310	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u311	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u312	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u313	Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 18 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u314	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u315	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u316	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u317	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u318	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u319	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u320	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u321	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u322	Article 18 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u323	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u324	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u325	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u326	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u327	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u328	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u329	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u330	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u331	Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 20 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u332	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u333	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u334	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u335	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u336	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u337	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u338	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u339	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u340	Article 20 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 21 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u341	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u342	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u343	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u344	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u345	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u346	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u347	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u348	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u349	Article 21 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 22 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u350	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u351	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u352	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u353	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u354	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u355	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u356	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u357	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u358	Article 22 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 23 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u359	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u360	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u361	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u362	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u363	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u364	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u365	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u366	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u367	Article 23 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 24 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u368	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u369	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u370	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u371	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u372	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u373	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u374	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u375	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u376	Article 24 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 25 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u377	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u378	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u379	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u380	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u381	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u382	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u383	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u384	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u385	Article 25 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 26 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u386	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u387	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u388	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u389	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u390	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u391	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u392	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u393	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u394	Article 26 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 27 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u395	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u396	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u397	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u398	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u399	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u400	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u401	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u402	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u403	Article 27 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 28 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u404	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u405	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u406	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u407	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u408	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u409	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u410	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u411	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u412	Article 28 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does the House accept Rule 29, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u413	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u414	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u415	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u416	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u417	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u418	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u419	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u420	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u421	Article 29 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 30 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u422	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u423	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u424	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u425	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u426	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u427	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u428	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u429	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u430	Article 30 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 31 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u431	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u432	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u433	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u434	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u435	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u436	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u437	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u438	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u439	Article 31 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 32 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u440	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u441	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u442	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u443	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u444	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u445	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u446	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u447	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u448	Article 32 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 33 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u449	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u450	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u451	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u452	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u453	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u454	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u455	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u456	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u457	Article 33 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 34 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u458	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u459	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u460	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u461	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u462	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u463	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u464	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u465	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u466	Article 34 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 35 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u467	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u468	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u469	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u470	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u471	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u472	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u473	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u474	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u475	Article 35 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 36 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u476	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u477	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u478	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u479	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u480	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u481	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u482	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u483	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u484	Article 36 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 37 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u485	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u486	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u487	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u488	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u489	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u490	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u491	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u492	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u493	Article 37 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 38 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u494	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u495	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u496	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u497	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u498	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u499	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u500	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u501	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u502	Article 38 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 39 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u503	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u504	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u505	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u506	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u507	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u508	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u509	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u510	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u511	Article 39 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 40 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u512	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u513	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u514	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u515	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u516	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u517	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u518	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u519	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u520	Article 40 was therefore accepted as being by a majority Does the House accept the amendment with a general number of 1217 and a special number of five?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u521	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u522	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u523	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u524	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u525	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u526	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u527	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u528	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u529	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1217 and a special 5 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same articles. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 1221 and a special number 6 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u530	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u531	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u532	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u533	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u534	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u535	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u536	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u537	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u538	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1221 and a special 6 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same articles. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 1222 and a special 7 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u539	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u540	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u541	Yes, with the comment I made earlier.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u542	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u543	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u544	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u545	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u546	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u547	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1222 and a special 7 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment by a general number 1223 and a special number 8, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u548	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u549	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u550	Oh, no. Beyond the fact that part of this amendment was withdrawn, if I am not mistaken, in the use of mobiles from refugees and immigrants - you understand the oxymoil when prisoners communicate with ministers with mobile phones from prisons - I would like to say this: we would like to ask, and we think it is necessary, for the withdrawal of the amendment. Therefore, since it has not been accepted, we are voting 'no'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u551	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u552	Today, with many reservations.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u553	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u554	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u555	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u556	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1223 and a special 8 was accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same articles. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 1224 and a special number 9 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u557	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u558	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u559	Here you go. The point, which we would like to make on Amendment 1224, is that we would be positive, but we see that it circumvents every procedure and by concise procedures it now places on the table. That's the danger.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u560	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u561	Here you go. Mr President, we consider it important to ensure water in all the islands. However, the amendment does not say who is paying. And we don't want people to be charged. That is why we are saying 'the present' in this amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u562	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u563	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u564	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u565	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1224 and a special 9 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment by a general number 1225 and a special number 10, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u566	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u567	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u568	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u569	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u570	Oh, no. We are voting 'no' because it has been using the AEN money of the port, or on the contrary, and we do not agree with this whole process, which has lasted for several years.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u571	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u572	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u573	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u574	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1225 and a special 10 was accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same articles. Does the House accept the amendment by a general number 1226 and a special number 11, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u575	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u576	Yeah. The New Democracy is voting 'yes' and it is happy to see that the Minister decides to withdraw one of its anti-constitutional provisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u577	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u578	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u579	Oh, no. Mr President, this amendment provides for facilitating new canals at all levels - equipment, workers and the price - and that is why we are voting 'no'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u580	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u581	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u582	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u583	The amendment under general number 1226 and special 11 were therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 1227 and a special number 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u584	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u585	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u586	Here you go. Mr President, I think there is a position on our part that would prefer to break down these two articles. We are in favour of the clearance of expenditure on the Horn. We are sceptical - very sceptical - why I will explain to you, as regards the clarification you are making, in relation to customs fines. I would like to point out, because we will find it before us, that in the way the Ministry has legislated, it is deducting revenue, not from the Greek state, but from the European Union, which has been set aside. And this will raise a question because, if it is not voted on, the European Union will ask for these amounts and if they are not charged, that would constitute illegality. If you want these two articles to remain in the same amendment, we are obliged to vote 'the present'. Otherwise, we would vote 'yes' in the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u587	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u588	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u589	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u590	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u591	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u592	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1227 and a special 12 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same articles. Does the House accept the amendment by a general number 1188 and a special number 4, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u593	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u594	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u595	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u596	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u597	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u598	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u599	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u600	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u601	Therefore, the amendment under general number 1188 and a special 4 was accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment by a general number 1228 and a special number 13, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u602	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u603	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u604	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u605	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u606	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u607	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u608	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u609	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u610	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1228 and a special 13 was accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of Article 14 of the bill. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 1229 and a special number 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u611	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u612	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u613	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u614	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u615	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u616	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u617	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u618	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u619	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1229 and a special 14 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u620	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u621	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u622	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u623	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u624	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u625	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u626	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u627	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u628	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information: "Electronic system for the disposal of television advertising time, amendment of Law 3548/2007, establishment of a register of regional and local press, special marking of a bar code in printed publications, creation of an institutional framework for strengthening the production of audiovisual works in Greece and other provisions" was accepted in principle and on articles. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now voting on the bill and on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u629	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u630	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u631	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u632	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u633	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u634	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u635	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u636	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u637	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information: ‘Electronic system for the disposal of television advertising time, amendment of Law 3548/2007, establishment of a register of regional and local press, special marking of a bar code in printed publications, establishment of an institutional framework for strengthening the production of audiovisual works in Greece and other provisions’, was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of articles and the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u638	I would ask the House to empower the Bureau for its ratification of the Minutes in its entirety.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u639	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-04-S1-commons.u640	With the consent of the House at 14.56 minutes, the sitting on Monday, August 28, 2017, at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate. Have a good rest to everyone and everyone!
