ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 6-6-2017, the minutes of the PLAC Sessions of Tuesday, 6 June 2017, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Adjustment of Greek legislation to the provisions of Directive (EU) 2015/2376 and other provisions’.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION Special session of the Parliamentary Assembly dedicated to the Memorandum of the former Prime Minister and Honorary President of the New Democracy, Konstantinos Mitsotakis. The Greek Parliament, with today's special session, honours the memory of the former Prime Minister and honorary President of the New Democracy, Konstantinos Mitsotakis. He says goodbye to one of the great politicians of post-war, but also to the post-government period of our political life. Constantine Mitsotakis was one of the leading forms of these critical periods. Originally elected in 1946, he was a member of the National Representation for six decades, as MP, minister, party leader and Prime Minister. Proverbs and commonly recognized are, in the midst of even tough controversy, and respect for the parliamentary procedure and, of course, rhetorical cowardice. As a political and parliamentary figure, he left his print in public life, not only with his active presence in critical times in the country, but also with his unparalleled passion. It was found at the centre of great political conflicts, particularly before the dictatorship in the Centre, with responsibilities shared by opponents and friends, but he himself recognised in the context of negative political life phenomena which worked as a greenhouse for the seven-year-old dictatorship of which he was active, professedly opposing. As Prime Minister, despite his brief term, he gave his own separate political account to the governance of the place, causing strong rivalries in social and political life, but also leaving falsifications, which to date act as elements of identity for the political party, which he served as President after the repatriation. His relationship with the Left could be described as a relationship between mutual appreciation and respect for the political and ideological opponent in difficult times, where the level of relations was not considered and was not cultivated as self-evident. Of course, the works and days of Constantine Mitsotakis are now the responsibility of the historians, but also of the political analysts of the present and the future. Finally, I would like to close with a reference to the family director Konstantinos Mitsotakis, who left behind such a large and so tied family. The political world and parliament honor the memory of the man and expressed appreciation for his family. Mr President-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a common confession that Constantine Mitsotakis has been a politician who has left his personal stigma in the post-war history of the country. This is a long time, marked by periods of intense political turmoil and destabilization, by efforts to consolidate and consolidate democracy after the fall of the junta, by the structural changes that have led to the states and societies of the whole world in the turmoil period of the late 1980s, early 1990s and the fall of the Berlin Wall. Constantine Mitsotakis now belongs to history and history listens carefully to both supporters and critics and writes, does not judge. Politicians are, after all, judged by the citizens, and, in current time, because that is what democracy demands. I would like to point out, however, that Constantine Mitsotakis fully assumed the responsibility of all his political choices, even of the hardest and most controversial choices. And that is something that, regardless of the way in which one approaches the facts, one must recognise it. To the left, Constantine Mitsotakis has always been a political opponent. We must, however, recognise him that during the dictatorship period he has been actively involved in the complaint and the international isolation of the regime of colonists. In this context, he was recognised, even by left-wing leaders, as a human being free of civil fears and prejudices, direct, open-minded and open-minded. This is characteristic, which can be seen today as typical, but particularly then, given the political climate of the time, it was not considered as data. We also believe that Constantine Mitsotakis has been consistent in this attitude and in the years following post-Civilisation. As Chief of the New Democracy, he recognised the need to get rid of the remains of intolerance and to reorientate his party as a national audience party, over and above divisional lines of the past. Regardless of which - and there are - political disagreements, this option should be recognised as an important and positive contribution to consolidating, consolidating democracy in our country. Also, as Chief of Officerial Response, at a time of great political exacerbation, Constantine Mitsotakis showed a remarkable commitment to the principles of parliamentism and regardless of the intensity of political controversy, he always kept his public political speech in the context of a calm, structured and self-determined rhetoric. This troubled period ended with the few-monthly government cooperation between the New Democracy and the Coalition, for which there are also, and it makes sense, different approaches and political and historical ones. After all, this has been judged by the people, as all are judged by the people. We must, however, accept, regardless of the historical assessment of this choice, that the wider context of this cooperation was a condition for the definitive overrun of any civil war prejudices. And we recognize to Constantine Mitsotakis that a bond of such prejudice never existed in his political life. The Ecumenical Government that followed the Jandetaki Government also marked the end of a long period of strong political tension and the restoration of a new political climate, where confrontation could be done on more political terms, without, of course, the end of history or dividing lines, based on ideology and political viewpoint. But it is important that confrontation be conducted on more political terms at the place. As I mentioned, on the left side, Constantine Mitsotakis has always been a political opponent, but a serious and calculated political opponent, as the main rapporteur of political neoliberalism in Greece. That is why I will not go into crises about the government's work in 1991-1993, as this would have escaped from the framework of a political memorial. I also assume that we will have the opportunity to talk about them in a more open political debate on the country's progress from then on to the years of the crisis, because the history of Greece, and fortunately, does not start from the start of the crisis. As far as I am concerned, however, during the period of the Prime Minister of Constantine Mitsotakis, I must recognise and credit him the low and careful tone in the field of foreign policy, at a time when the outbreak of the nationalist rhetoric threatened to destabilise our neighbourhood. Ladies and gentlemen, the death of Constantine Mitsotakis also symbolically closes a historic period for our country. Of course, political controversy never stops and that is how it should be done. The challenges facing the place, as well as social claims, will constantly put new issues on the agenda. Our firm view is that these issues should be discussed with the intensity of them, but also with the agreed commitment to a clear democratic institutional framework. And in such a context, intolerance and civil warfare cannot be placed, from which the extreme right and enemies of democracy are fed and strengthened. So we will remember Constantine Mitsotakis as a very competent political opponent on the Left, but at the same time, as an unscrupulous defender of democracy and parliamentaryism, as a bold politician, who did not hesitate to take many political risks in his political life, from the troubled 1960s to the era of the great polarization of the 1980s, especially in the late 1980s. We will remember him as an excellent parliamentary man and a parliamentary orator, as well as a parliamentarian in general. We will remember him as an important leader of his prolongation, which despite the great intensity of the era systematically avoided intolerance as a tool for promoting political planning. I think this is a serious and memorable case, not only for its resignation, but for democracy, for our political system and for the political culture in our country. With these thoughts, therefore, I would like to congratulate his relatives once again and wish that we remember the deceased and, above all, the confiscation that leaves behind him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, fifty-seven students and apprentices and three educational attendants from the 5th Agaleo Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I call in Stepma the son of the late, Chief of Officerial Response and Chairman of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking everyone who has been next to our family for these last few days. For us, Constantine Mitsotakis was above all the father, grandfather and grandfather, and it is never easy for a family to mourn in public sight. It is important to appreciate the citizens in the face of Constantine Mitsotakis and to recognise its value, from the whole political world and especially from its political opponents. Furthermore, because on his long political route Constantine Mitsotakis did not pursue popularity as well as respect for the Greek people. After a career of many decades it has succeeded, since absolute and fair judge is always time. Constantine Mitsotakis did not seek the applause so badly, but he wanted the recognition of his arguments. Having lived in painful divisions himself, he always pursued the synthesis and faced intense passions, he always sought modesty. He was more about logic and less about anger. He knew that flattering public opinion doesn't mean you're leading. In his mind, it is the leader who, when circumstances require, can go against the current, see away, discern what is essential and critical, back and beyond the roots and controversies of the moment. It is something that has been attempted many times during his busy political career, demonstrating and being brave and disarming in its primary values, values that have remained unaltered. "I started a liberal and I end a liberal," he said in one of his last interviews. "I have never been reconciled and never played, so I think I'm calmly facing the crisis in history." His words, he is perhaps the mirror of generous recognition, with which the Greek society has said goodbye. A society that sometimes stood hard on its mistakes, but which hailed him with a warmth, emerged from the bottom of the crisis, as an spontaneous recognition of the consistency of words and works and, ultimately, of his insight, but at the same time as an indication of self-awareness of the Greek people, which was strengthened through his recent test. A society that honoured a political route, which began in resistance to the German occupation and ended two weeks before it died, when it gave its last - unpublished yet - an interview and focused particularly on the importance that it attaches to protecting the natural environment of Crete's favorite. On his political path - Mr President, it is important to say this here in this Chamber - Constantine Mitsotakis was identified, perhaps more than any other politician of his generation, with the Greek Parliament. He was first elected MP in 1946, at the age of twenty-eight years. It served Parliament until 2004. I've been searching for the relevant data from his background file. He spoke in plenary eight hundred and twenty-four times and made countless contributions to the parliamentary committees. However, more important than what he said in the House, his attitude towards the institution of parliamentaryism is. We all remember him, I believe. Constantine Mitsotakis came first and was leaving last. And it was not a few times when in his last term of office, former colleagues will remember - when he had exceeded the eighty-fifth year of his age, he was the only representative of the New Democracy in the Chamber. He always listened with care to all the speakers and to his recognition, which he was handing out generously and generously, satisfied everyone. And his advice to the younger MPs was very simple: "Listen to all the speakers, to come to the House, not only when it is to speak, all of it will learn by listening. He often complained about the deterioration of the role of the ordinary Member and the manipulation of legislative power by the executive, but, as usual, he did not have any illusions. To those who expressed dissatisfaction with the deterioration of the parliamentarians' quality, Constantine Mitsotakis always reminded him that the MPs were not appointed, but were elected by the Greek people. Because in a democracy, the people are never poor of their responsibilities. In his heart, of course, he always remained a MP in Chania. He offered a lot to his place, but he wasn't bitter when his place didn't always return his own love. But he had many and devoted friends, friends who never left him. They were the ones who elected him as a MP again in 1977, when almost everyone had anticipated the end of his political career. Constantine Mitsotakis confessed to his public path through fire and iron. Many would have kneeled, but he had a special metal in it. And his accession to the great New Democracy party again allowed him to rise to the top and achieve the great composition of the centre-right, mitigating predatorial divisions. It led the New Democracy's resignation to three consecutive election wins and to the unprecedented figure of 47%. He succeeded without pluralizing and without making any commitments he knew he could not keep, with a clear, liberal, centralised, reform agenda. He faced great difficulties and a great political opponent. Many decades ago today's "Fake News", underwent the political defamation of "A tomorrow'sism", which, forgery of history, appeared to him about as a partner of the Nazis. His instincts were always to resist acidification rather than fuel it. He didn't always make it. And if he didn't always, it was because passions and polarization of that time sometimes came out with the responsibility of everyone out of control. Nevertheless, the top parliamentary moment of Constantine Mitsotakis was a one-minute speech, when he kept his tears, imposed his institutional role on his immense personal suffering, and this is where the seat called for restraint and compliance with the rules of democracy after the murder of Paul Bakoyannis. Constantine Mitsotakis' contribution to the definitive reconciliation of the Greeks, to the lifting of the partition lines of the civil war and the final end of the anti-right syndrome was decisive, no doubt along with the assistance of the historical leaders of the Left, Charilaos Florakis and Leonidas Kyrkos. In April 1990 Constantine Mitsotakis was found the head of a government majority of fifty of a MP. For the moment, he was thinking of going to four-quarters elections with another electoral law, so that he could have a comfortable majority. He didn't, because he was convinced that you don't change the rules of political game depending on the political context. He subjugated the party interest in his commitment to institutional stability. The government of Constantine Mitsotakis received the country at an extremely difficult time. In the 1980s, an improvement in the standard of living of the Greeks was chosen by means of an increase in public debt, i.e. deficits which financed consumer expenditure. The insurance system was found to its limits and the state's suffocating suffocation undermined its competitiveness. Of course, I am not the most objective judge to judge the work of Constantine Mitsotakis as Prime Minister. However, I believe that three important achievements cannot be called into question. Firstly, the restoration of the budgetary balance. Secondly, the promotion of very bold reforms. Thirdly, the improvement of Greece's international image. With a tight fiscal policy, it has led to a significant reduction in deficits and a primary surplus in 1993 for the first time after many years. Inflation declined from 20% to 14%, exchange rate stability was restored. And all this, look out, it happened, without the economy sinking into the recession. Useful lessons for today. On the front of the structural reforms there has been a real revolution. For the first time a government had been elected, which believed in the power of the private sector and in the need to liberate the productive economy from the state's bonds. The markets opened up, the banking system was liberalised and the ground was set to attract important foreign investments in many sectors of the economy. Of course, I must remind you that all the great works that Greek citizens enjoy today, from the Metro of Athens to the "Eleftherios Venizelos" and from Egnatia to Attica, were launched and have the seal of the government of Constantine Mitsotakis. The reform of the insurance system gave the system twenty years of life and the reduction of the State's participation in economic activity redetermined the limits of state intervention and the relationship between the public and the private spheres. All this, of course, remembers well that there were major tensions. Greek society was not yet ready to enjoy the privileges of the client state for the benefit of a wider good, which looked like most citizens as extremely abstract. But the soil was also wrothful and many of the policies of Constantine Mitsotakis continued, although often without drum impacts, by subsequent governments. In the field of foreign policy, Greece has balanced itself in an extremely unstable geopolitical environment. He recognized Israel without disturbing his relations with the Arab world. It has significantly improved the country's relations with the United States, but at the same time playing an important role in shaping European integration with the Maastricht Treaty, signed by Constantine Mitsotakis. Of course Greece has been a factor of regional stability at a time when the Balkans were flaming. Of course, Constantine Mitsotakis helped promote Greek-Turkish friendship. He firmly believed that we were condemned by our geography to resolve our differences with our neighbors. Of course, he fought for many decades for a sustainable solution to the Cyprus problem. He showed national self-confidence, but not arrogantness and had wisdom to know that effective foreign policy is not being exercised in behalf of the domestic electoral clientele. No one knows what the country would have been if Constantine Mitsotakis had ruled for more years Greece. He was fully aware that history is not written 'if'. For him his defeat in the 1993 elections meant automatically his end as Head of the New Democracy. When I asked him why he resigned that night, while he could stay in the Headquarters of New Democracy and reclaim the Prime Minister in the next elections, he answered me with disarming honesty: "But why I had said and committed." And so, he opened his last chapter on his political path, no longer looking to any office. Free from the burden of day-to-day management policy, he has found for himself a new role. He did not think of being peculiar, because for him politics was his life. But he knew when to end his parliamentary path. In his last term of office, his speech on the constitutional review is a point of reference for us younger Members, especially his insistence that politicians be tried as ordinary citizens. Because Constantine Mitsotakis never considered that public persons should enjoy preferential treatment. It also belonged to a generation of policies engraved in their consciences in the sense of public supply. And this forced him to show, by his example, the attitude of responsibility, not only in public but in his private life. For Konstantinos Mitsotakis the characteristics of the leadership were very clear: coolness, determination, quick decision-making, moderateness, realism, perceptiveness, respect for political opponents and, of course, the bravery to go against the power of things to serve your faiths. But she also had an innate courtesy that made him repulsate any manifestation of political vulnerability from wherever she came from. Many years before the crisis, which still persecutes the country, Constantine Mitsotakis warned of the need to suppress our deficits, to reduce the state, to improve our competitiveness. For many, he had become a cynic monotonous, a modern Tyresia, which only badly predicted for the country. The Greek society, of course, has awakened painfully from the false bliss made with loan and deficits. He was not very interested in the fact that he was finally vindicated. vanity was not an element of its character, nor did it seek historical recognition in life. He knew that only the safety of historical time would allow future generations to judge his or her own resource objectively. But let me close with this comment. Constantine Mitsotakis was not cynical. There was untreated romantic and optimistic. He always had, as he said, confidence in our people. He highlighted his weaknesses, but he honored his virtues, flexicurity, labour, philosopheria, honesty. He did not fear the Greek in the wider environment of the United Europe and globalisation. It is enough, as he has always said, to 'decide and adapt to the new data'. He reminded his interlocutors that the sooner this country breaks, another as quickly it builds. After all, he had lived several circles of history to know that Greece could make the transition from destruction to triumph at high speed. However, a prerequisite for the great fleeing forward has always been and remains one: the truth, that is, individual and collective self-awareness. She served as he perceived it consistently throughout his life. Dionysius Solomon wrote that the nation should consider national what is true. And in this sense, Constantine Mitsotakis is worthy of his company the truth and the blue-white flag in his last residence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, since they participated in the educational programme of the "Democracy Workshop" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty students and students and two teachers from the 16th Municipal School of Amarousi. The House welcomes you [[Applause from all sides of the House)]] The President of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Independence of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Fotini Genomes has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like from the Step of the House to express my warmest condolences personally, but also from the entire Group of the Democratic Independence Parliament to the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, Dora Bakoyannis and, of course, to the whole family. I know she's a big and very close family. I know very well, how big the blow to parental loss at any age. It is extremely difficult, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate, because it is fresh in the soil that covers it in its favorite Crete. This also requires very sincere respect and basic sensitivity. The House - I want to be clear - does not write history itself, neither personal nor collective. The House, however, owns and offers the material for writing history. I, too, participate in this evaluation with a sense of responsibility and with a full and deep awareness of the conditions I have set out since the beginning. Every time an important personality of public life leaves life, it leaves an indelible mark in the political calendar of the place and opens the great book of Greek political history to write new pages of narratives, evaluations and criticisms. This feeling is always even more intense when the beggar had a long presence in the political life of the place. And Constantine Mitsotakis belongs to those politicians who dominated the second half of the 20th century, after the war, with works and initiatives and with a strong political speech until almost the end of his life. It has never ceased to develop a multitude of political action since early with passion for participation in the public. He was a strong supporter of democracy and the European perspective of the country until the end of his life. He has lived through everything that a politician would like to live, in all roles, at all times, and has done almost all of his duties, government over and above all, Prime Minister, Minister, but also parliament. It is also my view that Constantine Mitsotakis can be recognised as one of the leading parliamentarians. He wasn't a rhetoric with the traditional criteria. But he had the gift of expressing his political positions and analyzing them and supporting them in this Chamber in a unique way. As much as he agrees or disagrees with his political choices, he can only admit his high political stature, his important presence in Parliament and his determination in the management of public affairs. The Government of New Democracy, which was the Prime Minister, from 1990 to 1993, exercised a policy that had a clear sign, specific content and effect. Our party, the PASOK of Andreas Papandreou, was against the government choices of Constantine Mitsotakis. They were not personal, they were extremely political. We opposed the logic of the violent adaptation of the Greek economy and society to the jewels of the most conservative choices at that time. We opposed the prevalence of the deadlock, in our view, of the logic of lasting austerity, the complete absence of guaranteeing State intervention in the market, the retreat and the disorganisation of the social state. And we came, in direct confrontation with the great political adventure of '89, when Andreas Papandreou was targeted, with his reference to the Special Court, a purely political persecution, which created polarization and divided the Greek people, a political storm that continued until the return of Andreas Papandreou to the government and the brave political initiatives taken to end the Scandalology and national understanding and reconciliation. The logic of national reconciliation and understanding led to the achievement of the great objective of Greece's participation in EMU at the Prime Minister Kostas Simitis. The demand for national understanding to date remains extremely timely and alive, a demand that the Democratic Reconciliation insists on serving and claiming nowadays. There are great and critical pieces of our history that cannot be rewrited. However, no one can deny the insight and political sensation of the late. Regardless of the critical view of the choices and policies followed by Constantine Mitsotakis, he never ceased until the end of his life to be distinguished for acute political thought, to strongly support what he considered appropriate, to have a broad understanding of international reality and ability to read the signs of the times. They are these special features that, together with its long, continuous and uninterrupted presence in the public political life of the country, place Constantino Mitsotakis at the dance of Greece's important political personalities. The historian of the future - I am sure - will devote much of his study and work to the analysis and evaluation of Konstantinos Mitsotakis' long career and offer in our political life. It will seem - I am sure - generous of the positive and firm face to possible errors and omissions. Besides, history, objective historical evaluations are neither written by postmortem beauty nor by up-to-date defects. Every person who passed and left his print in our modern political history with the intensity and duration that Constantine Mitsotakis did deserves much more than a passionate or obsessed postmortem deposit of love credentials and hatreds in the press and the Internet. We must contribute to the evaluation and evaluation of a politician who was born and grew up in the midst of us and evolved into our hardest opponent. Undoubtedly, our assessment and evaluation are positive. From the life of every great political leader, from the deeds, the ideas, even from his mistakes, our affected society today has lessons to learn. Rereading our past we can find again what really unites us and inspire us, restore the lost prestige and credibility of the political system, work towards deepening our democracy, strengthening our institutions, transparency and dignity of our political life. This is the debt of a people and a society to its past and to all the great personalities who served the country. Because, ladies and gentlemen, it can only be the knowledge and proper evaluation of the past with responsibility and impartiality, without bumps, dogmatism and strangles, without saints and demons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Madam President. The speech is given by the Secretary-General and President of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece, Dimitrios Koutsoubas.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, Constantine Mitsotakis was undoubtedly one of the most important representatives of the Greek urban political world. In the years of the Occupation, he was a member of the National Organization of Crete, which was in close cooperation with the British Headquarters of the Middle East. With his action, his initiatives and practical actions helped restore the stricken civil power as a result of the attitude of the then leadership during the Occupation and immediately after the withdrawal of the German troops, but also because of the resistance and the great influence within the people of EAM national resistance. The defence of civil power has been a constant orientation and the entire period of its active involvement in the political life of the country since 1946, which was first elected MP, until other positions in political life, such as in ministerial positions, the Chief of Party, were taken up by the elected Prime Minister of the country. In this context, he took the lead in the efforts of various necessary modernisations needed for more effective exercise and consolidation of civil power and sovereignty. He was one of the political figures of the urban world who understood relatively early that to deal with the labour, folk, the communist movement was not enough to suppress and prosecute, but also to promote political measures to involve and integrate them in the civil system. From this point of view, it has been open from the outset to the prospects for a free political action of the JRC, to the point that it would, of course, limit its objectives and actions to the limits and under urban management. Constantine Mitsotakis complicated the contradictions and contradictions that went from the triangle army - palace - government of post-war bourgeois power and the different international alliances promoted by the various conflicting portions of the bourgeois order, the ruling order in the country before the establishment of the dictatorship. As a result, she left the Centre Union and its Government in July 1965, but continued to defend the strategic interests of the opposing system, as well as other bourgeois politicians of the period, in the military coup in 1967. After the fall of the dictatorship, Constantine Mitsotakis took part in political life initially as an independent and then as a member and leader of the New Democracy. The emergence of the New Democracy to the Government and the Prime Minister himself in 1990 was linked to the adoption of anti-grassroots measures in a domestic and international environment marked by the promotion of counter-revolutionary upturns in the socialist countries of Central and Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union and the preparation of Greece's participation in the European Union at the time of its conversion from the EEC to the European Union, with the Maastricht Treaty. Even after the fall of his government in 1993 he continued to support consistently the strategic choices of the ruling class, its international alliances, NATO, the European Union, and he gave his support to all capitalist restructuring and reform, in all subsequent memoranda. The Communist Party of Greece has faced Constantino Mitsotakis on the basis of objective data, as it does for every political opponent, along with the overall criteria it has up to now in order to judge the role of a government, a leader against the popular movement. Some people sometimes accuse us of being cruel and isotopic to our opponents. Again, for their own reasons, they claimed that we were diligent, that perhaps I had some secret moratorium with them. None of this applies! Although hard ideologically and politically rival Constantine Mitsotakis always said what he believed, he directly dealt with his political opponents. We have always dealt with him straightaway and politically. The JRC recognizes in the face of Constantine Mitsotakis a large and capable opponent with a pure political reason. Clearly and correctly opposed our party's political positions and views, with political arguments, without half-white, without small-party manoeuvres. We believe that he recognized this to us and that he would not under any circumstances, for the sake of feasibility, these hours to hide words, even now that he is no longer in life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. I call on the President of the Group of Independent Greeks, Mr Panagiotis Kammenos, to step in.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have had the honour of being twenty-five years old next to Constantine Mitsotakis when I was starting my first political steps. He honored me with his trust, his love, his advice even some time ago, and I must speak here today from the Step of the House that he loved. And I remember that when I first came up as a secretary of Parliament as a new parliament for twenty-seven years, I found him as Chief of Staff of the Opposition at his seat to monitor the petitions in the House. I am not entitled to share his thoughts or even details concerning the period 1990-1993, which he himself would never wish to notify because he believed deeply in national reconciliation and in the interests of homeland. But I will do this after the end of my political life, because I owe this to the Greek people. I am, however, obliged to restore the truth for that period alone, for the 1990-1993 period, where I have had the honour of being with him, with reference to facts and public statements. Constantine Mitsotakis had political opponents who he respected and his opponents were the Left. It did, however, show respect for democracy and dialogue, as the Secretary-General of the Communist Party quite rightly said. I remember discussions with Charilaos Florakis and Leonidas Kyrkos. However, Constantine Mitsotakis also had enemies, enemies who fought him without respecting morality, political morality, even the rules of democracy and justice. The PASOK system of 1981-1989 fought him hard and fought him hard interests with which he colluded. Finally, he was overthrown through his own party by people who showed up in politics. I will not forget that after 1993 in the office of his beloved, Mrs. Sakis Kyprianou, there was a small label, which she often looked at and made sure that everyone we visited, who wrote: 'No one safer enemy than the benevolent.' And that is the truth, as is the truth, too, that branded economic interests fought him and overthrowed him, as he said, on the day of the overthrow of the New Democracy government. Monday, 6-7-1993, a statement by Konstantinos Mitsotakis, Prime Minister: "Antonis Samaras took a step towards the great betrayal of 47% of the Greek people tonight. It becomes an instrument of our opponents and the economic interests, which are bound, in order to hit behind the party that created it, while the hard effort of three and a half years gives the fruits, indifferent to the interests of the country and the Greek people." Constantine Mitsotakis, at this time, in 1990-1993, accepted a rabies war from almost all media. Today and today's government reminds me of this war by Constantine Mitsotakis at the time. It also accepted a war that went beyond the limits of political controversy, reaching the point of blaming him even for his resistance. I would like here to reveal that in about 1993, after falling from the government, the one who published the photograph with the Germans in "AYRIAN", Telis Giannakoudakis asked me to take him to Constantine Mitsotakis to apologize. And so it happened. And he forgave him. During this period, in 1990-1993, the interests which overturned Constantine Mitsotakis in the summer of 1993 had strongly reacted to the policy of Stephanos Manos and the New Democracy on privatisation at the time of the 35% OTE, the concession to a strategic investor, maintaining 51% of the public sector and giving 14% of the workers and pensioners. Who were those who didn't want OTE to pass into the hands of a strategic investor? Of course OTE's suppliers, in particular the national supplier of OTE, denounced by Constantine Mitsotakis, that by working with an organ, Antonis Samaras, overturned the Government of 1993. At the same time, there was an offer from the Japanese NTT organization to pass OTE, with a strategic investor and with the shares in the hands of the Greek people, in a new period. But some sold to OTE devices at multiples of the real value. They had practically understood the organization. They sold technologies outdated and made billions at the expense of the Greek public. The Mitsotakis had to be overturned. At the same time, in the summer of 1993, I would like to remind you that we had the famous fires, like in 2008, when the same interests fought Kostas Karamanlis. In the 1990 elections, Constantine Mitsotakis won 47% of the Greek people and won with a different seat then, the seat given by the lateist Katsikis to the majority in the New Democracy, and then took one seat from the Electoral Court. The only single chair he took then was the one chaired by Evrytania taken by Bakoyannis. All the other one-sided, together with all the opposition parties, were lost in these elections. As soon as the New Democracy Government took over, the hard opposition began. It was the time of schools' occupations since November 1990, with all the media expanding the picture outwards, the tragic events in January 1991, with the murder of Temponera, but in 1991 there was also a huge geopolitical change in our region. Yugoslavia's dismantling is here. In 1992, I would like to remind you of the change of the EEC to the European Union, the fall of the Soviet Union and the war in Iraq. Even for this option of Greece, for non-active participation in military but political, it is then blamed by its political opponents, by PASOK, while Soviet, American, European, Middle East and Israel were against Saddam Hussein. His only supporters were then the Civic Opposition. At that time, too, we had events resulting from the conflict and the period of 1989 clearance. Agamemnon Koutsogiorgas dies from a stroke in court and newspapers then dare, even though he had been abandoned by his party, to characterize Constantine Mitsotakis as even a murderer. And on the day of the Medieval Koutsogiorgas' funeral in Patras we have the machine explosion in the hands of PLO terrorists, six dead, who if it exploded during the funeral, one understands what would happen. But Constantine Mitsotakis was not abandoned at the time and was only fought by foreigners. Inside his own party he accepted war on the first day: resignation of Dimas in the summer of 1991 with charges against the family of Constantine Mitsotakis. Autumn 1991. They give an envelope to Amnesty Miltiadis Evert that he's being watched by bugs at the command of Constantine Mitsotakis from the National Intelligence Service. Newspapers were called "Metsotakis gate". This was said in foreign newspapers, which were given by Greek journalists. Finally, it turned out that this surveillance was for a mover of red mercury in the same building as Miltiades Evert was staying. That was the time - and here I would like to insist - when the name of Skopje came up, in relation to the name of Macedonia. This became a weapon for Antonis Samaras to overthrow Constantine Mitsotakis. But the truth is not that. Antonis Samaras was the most trusted minister of Constantine Mitsotakis at the time. For one thing - he said at the time - Constantine Mitsotakis was sure that everyone would turn against him, Samaras would stand by him. And yet, at the time, Antonis Samaras used Macedonia's national theme, while he was responsible for the bad manipulations that took place at the time and the truths were hidden from Constantine Mitsotakis. I would remind you that the leader of the opposition officer at that time, the late Andreas Papandreou, speaking in 1986 in the Third Army, referred to the use of the term "Macedonia" as being permitted for the interior in Yugoslavia. Samaras, on 2-12-1991, signed Regulation 3567/91 as Minister for Foreign Affairs, ignoring the Prime Minister and not informing him, where he first recognizes the term "Macedonia" in an official EEC document. On 16-12-1991 in Brussels, at the meeting of Foreign Ministers, there are clear, clear instructions from Constantine Mitsotakis to have three conditions. The conditions were that there should not be any alpha-corrosion elements, that there should be no territorial claims against Greece, that it should be explicitly clarified that there is no Macedonian minority in Greece and that, finally, it should change its name in such a way that no misunderstandings regarding historical continuity are created. In this critical, as was shown afterward, the date of 16 December, and while the Minister for Foreign Affairs had specific orders, not only did he fail, but he even disappeared that day until the next and never responded to the calls of Constantine Mitsotakis, justifying that he had specific orders. But how does it turn out that Constantine Mitsotakis was the one who defended the term 'Macedonia', as was the decision of the political leaders on 18-2-1992 under the chairmanship of Constantine Karamanlis? With the Lisbon Summit on 26-6-1992, where then the leaders of the EEC refer to their unanimous decision to recognise FYROM without the term "Macedonia" which was a personal victory by Constantine Mitsotakis in Lisbon and despite the victory that it brought to Lisbon in favour of the Hellenic Republic and the national position by Constantine Mitsotakis, this meeting was used to overthrow him. On 21-10-1992, by obliging the parliamentary group to respond to the internal opposition, it presents the documents with which the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the leader then of the Spring Policy, using the national topic, is trying to overturn it. It submits the document of the specific Rules signed on 2 December by Antonis Samaras and on 16 December the minutes of the sitting. I mention these, because at some point the truth must be restored to the former Prime Minister. Now if today those who betrayed Mitsotakis are in the headquarters of the New Democracy, that is a case concerning the New Democracy. Finally, I would like to say that there have been massive resignations of historians of the New Democracy who have undermined the very course of Constantine Mitsotakis. We have Rally's resignation on 29-3-1993. We have the resignation of the late Athanasios Kanellopoulou. We have the famous scandal they discovered, of the original Mavriki, who, with the headlines of "ELEVERROTYPIA" is alleged to have been following the half-political world by orders of Mitsotakis. And what's the evolution? After becoming a front page and now a whole new "Metsotakis Gate", it turns out that Mauritius then works in means that he personally fought Constantine Mitsotakis on wages. On my payroll!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u11	Please, shorten up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u12	We have at the same time - and I shall end with this, Mr President - a national damage suffered at the expense of the then government, the betrayal of Steve Lala. Then to hit Mitsotakis and Greek-American relations, they give evidence of Steve Lala, a worker of the US embassy, who has been sentenced and imprisoned for decades as an agent of Greece against America. I mention these, ladies and gentlemen, because I think that some time in our parliamentary democracy we must also have a memory. I honor Constantine Mitsotakis as a great leader, as a Greek, who managed national reconciliation before all of us think about it. And I want to condone his family, his close colleagues, but also 47% of the Greek people who once trusted him and others betrayed him.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, thirty-five students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st Kalivian Municipal School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The President of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u14	Good morning, everyone and everyone. I thank Mr. Tsipras for leaving. And by the way, as he left, I would like to ask something that is not in the spirit of today's debate. Three - four times from this Chamber I said it. Since you don't have any evidence of debt reduction, why do you raise it up? It's going to be a national defeat. He didn't answer me. Obviously, he wanted to "massage" to all of you who voted for the tough measures. That's how I understand. There was no evidence. And don't say German elections. Even in September it will not solve the matter. The issue will be resolved in August 2018. The German election won't be a lifesaving either. That's what my information says. Record this information in the Chamber so that we can see who comes out true. Because some people say there will be a'remark' after 15 June, which will say that it was the German elections that prevented us and that you are not sad, we will go to September and then the Germans will settle the debt. But the absence of Mr Tsipras - and I thank him very much - is the confirmation of the flirt that I have had. I only voted on the simple analogue. I didn't have any flirts, and you all knew it. But some right-wing newspapers were throwing mud at me that I have flirting. I never had a flirt. For the simple analogue, because it's my dream of child, I've done everything. And I'll still do anything for simple analogues, because I think it's a top issue that the country's going to return. The country has been bankrupt by self-responsibility, by the vote, by rhetoric. The country went bankrupt. I'm saying that to explain. I would like to say a few words about Constantine Mitsotakis, because I have to say a few words. Constantine Mitsotakis is a controversial personality. Some may have come here to make esteems - and perhaps it is time to say only positive - but even from his grave he asks us to say only positive. He's asking us to be objective. A man, wherever he is, even in the grave, doesn't want to be praised that we don't believe. He wants the truth. I think so. The Union of Centres was also set up with the initiative of Constantine Mitsotakis. There was a fragmented party, Baltaji's party, EPEK, some independent from here and there alone George Papandreou could unite and reach the government. Constantine Mitsotakis took the great obstacle then, Sophocles Venizelos, who was influenced by the Queen and took him to George Papandreou. This is how the Union of Centres became. I don't know, I think you know history, but I'm telling you how it happened. The tragic thing is that the man who did everything he could to build the Centre's association, after a certain period of dismantling and throwing this government. This is the punishment of history. Throwing this government, he goddessed the Papandreou family. You know, the Papandreou family was consecrated by this Mitsotakis fleeing. Mitsotakis had to stay - as he has admitted before me very much later - and give a fight, because he was also a nephew of Eleftherios Venizelos and was a great personality. Andreas may have been just as great a personality. When there are two serious personalities, why would you leave? Why escape? You sit there and you fight. So that was his historic mistake. From this mistake, from this apostasy, he created the Papandreus legend. If the Papandreou still have a small power - zero now after Giorgakis' damlets - it owes it to the apostasy of Mitsotakis. That's the accuracy. And you know, Mitsotakis paid for this himself, because then he fought and you'll all remember how he got into politics again. Do you know how he got into politics? He founded a party, the Neoliberal Party, which in 1974 did not enter the parliament. In 1977 he and Paul Vardinoyannis went down with the Liberal Party of Nikita Venizelos because they took the measure, as at that time there were no 3%. So two people entered the House, in Chania, Constantine Mitsotakis and in Rethymnon Paul Vardinoyannis. Karamanlis didn't want him in New Democracy. But Karamanlis needed them to make the eighteenth. That's why the "almost eighty" took five - six of the National Order, a Apostolakus and others. The seventy-ninth vote was the vote of Paul Vardinoyannis and the eighty-eighth was of Constantine Mitsotakis. I was present at the Senate Hall where the vote was taken. That's exactly how Mitsotakis entered New Democracy. Because, in fact, there was a relative relic in the New Democracy, as they searched for a man who could stand against Andreas Papandreou who was charismatic, then there was no one else and ended up with Mitsotakis. He did have great gifts. That's why I told you that in 1965 with the apostasy he troubled himself. He could be a Prime Minister much earlier. I believe that because he also had gifts, if he lived in the Central Association and did not apostate, then he would have become Prime Minister. He would have changed his fate as well. He took a monastic road, he was afflicted, he was lucky to come to Chania as an independent essentially and took the measure and he was lucky that Karamanlis needed his vote to become President of the Republic. It was those two. He was lucky that after New Democracy there was no rival to fight him, and that was all a one-way road from there. In 1989, ladies and gentlemen, something was done in this Chamber. There was a government of Mitsotakis - Floraki - Kyrkos. That was a consensus accomplishment. This is the main thing to be learned from the life of Constantine Mitsotakis, that he was able for some reason to work with people who were completely different attitudes. He didn't say: ‘Ah, left? No. No.' He didn't say that. He sat, cooperated, built a government. Of course, he did the wrong thing to link the creation of this government with rapid elections to come out and made three elections to get a hundred and fifty, because in PASOK they were acting dirty, because the New Democracy was up, they did a system of election that you get, you don't go out with 151. What they did was very dirty, because if they believed in PASOK in the simple analogue, they had to do it earlier, not at the time they fell. At the time they fell, they made the simple analogue to destroy Mitsotakis. Let's tell the truth. Well, that government happened. This government has not been stressed with due emphasis on the speeches. It was an unprecedented government for the country, because the forces of the civil opponents worked together to form a political government. It is very important, regardless of whether I believe that Mitsotakis at that time, hostage to some right-wing barons, was unable to pass the view of the coalition governments and fought to use this structure to achieve self-reliance. That's another matter. He tried to build a government himself. It has not brought together the culture of partnerships. He insisted on strengthening, insisted on self-responsibility. That was his big mistake. The second big mistake was that. The first was apostasy and the second was that after this government became and could change political thought in the country by bringing parties coalitions to power, it was influenced and fought again for self-responsibility. The self-responsibility brought to Papandreou because he tells you "or one will come or another" and played five times on the people's back, making ruffles, and eventually bankrupt the country. I don't know what Mr. Kammenos says. He said things, that it was each other's fault, that Mitsotakis fought, that he did not fight. But I don't forgive him the phrase he told us to give the name in ten years...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u15	He didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u16	I don't know if he said it, because sometimes journalists in this place say things I haven't said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u17	When did he say that? We can't accept it. Don't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u18	That was never said. Stop distortion.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u19	I never happened to talk about this with him. If, however, the phrase was said 'to give the name and in ten years we will have forgotten it', it is disrespectful to the people of Macedonia if it was said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u20	He never said that. It wasn't said!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u21	If it wasn't said, as some people assure me, I wish. I'm not unfair, but everyone in Greece, from Orestia to Crete, wherever we go, says it was said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u22	And what are you? False news dispersor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u23	Please, be quiet. Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u24	Therefore, it is right to restore the truth if it was not said or said in another spirit.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u25	Please be brief, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u26	Don't worry! I'll tell you something good about me. In 1992, as far as you know, the additional elections were held for the seat lost by Tsovolas and at those elections neither the JRC nor the New Democracy, etc. I was an opponent of MacGakis, who was PASOK's. Then some right-wing ministers made the mistake, and Mitsotakis himself said "So the seat belongs to PASOK." This was essentially 'please vote PASOK'. He didn't care about the seat, that is. This is what he said, 'the seat belongs to PASOK'. Karatzaferis came out of his channel and said "we will go olidays on that day, we will go on vacation". That's what they said. So I met Constantine Mitsotakis after several years, who I tell you was charismatic and in the company was amazing. Even if you disagreed with him, he would conquer you. I said to him: at that time the KKE did not go down, they showed a sympathy, they did not want Magakis, an old man. They fought against PASOK. Why did the New Democracy throw the slogan "we go on a trip" and you said that "the seat belongs to PASOK"? He turned around and said to me, "Mr. Leventis, I did not know the range of your personality. I did not know you." [[Noise in the Chamber]] "Oh!" I don't know what it is. I don't know yours "Oh!" What is it? Listen. The signals have to do with each other's psychotic composition. But he called her this conversation. In other words, he replied that 'if I knew who you were and what you were worth, it would be a different attitude to the New Democracy'. In any case, I've been to Crete too, I've been to the Venizelos graves. I couldn't go to Crete that day. I only went here to the exodus, and I'm sorry, because I wanted to go. I believe Constantine Mitsotakis was of great value, but he hurt himself. He became a renegade of his resignation and I believe there is something else that history is difficult to record. He was living a drama, because every one who walks knows that he is apostating and living an internal drama. Let him be forgiven by all of us and I think it was recorded in the greats of political history.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u27	Thank you. I call on the President of the River Parliamentary Group, Mr Stavros Theodorakis, to step in. I would ask the Members to come to Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u28	So let us return to reality and remember why we were gathered together in the Chamber today. The incident is known: Great Thursday of 1932, in Step of the Parliament, Eleftherios Venizelos. Against him, Alexander Papanastassiou. In the tension, Prime Minister Eleftherios Venizelos says: "When I die, I am sure that one of the best eulogies will be the one that Papastasios will speak. From him, I predict what he will say, and Venizelos continues. And then he begins to say what Papanastasios would say at his funeral: “The one who comes to be dead, dear friends, was a true man, with great courage, with confidence, and for himself and for the people whom he was called to rule. He may have made many mistakes, but he never missed his courage, never was a fatalist, for he never insisted on the fate of seeing his country advanced, but laid in the service of all the fire he had in him, every power of mental and physical." This little paragraph remained in history as the only eulogy that was made for itself by living politicians. Constantine Mitsotakis was then 14 years old. Four years later, his great uncle, Eleftherios Venizelos, will undertake his studies in law. I guess something like that would say today and Constantine Mitsotakis himself about his sixty-year-old political course: "I made mistakes, but I was not a fatalist, I did not miss the courage and took out all the fire I had inside of me." It has been discussed these days - and today - the government term of Constantine Mitsotakis. Great, but it's not the only field we need to remember. Constantine Mitsotakis received a party that had returned to almost civil war positions at that time. Let me remind you that the New Democracy had left the House when the recognition of the National Resistance was voted. In his manifesto, however, in the manifesto of Constantine Mitsotakis, there is a new proposal for freedom. In 1985 Mitsotakis takes the daring and clashes with the then diffuse and dominating state of affairs. It reaffirms political and economic liberalism and emphasises the value of individual initiative and puts Europe back at the centre of the party's values. Things that are self-evident today, but not in the 1980s. It does not, of course, sometimes avoid political polarization in confrontation and sometimes, with synergy and on the other hand, says things extreme. But I prefer to stand at another moment at that time, the concert that he organized at the Olympic Stadium, two days before the November 1989 elections, with Mickey Theodorakis, Manos Hatzidakis and Stavros Xarharakos. A concert instead of an election speech, which he then sent, into the difficult air and the uplift of the era, and a message of moderation. This great parliamentarian, this'master of political survival', to borrow the words of Professor Yiannis Voulgaris, owed much to both his policy of obscurity and his ability to sharpen it on the facts, assimilate the messages of the time and sometimes precede his time. He was one of the first and a few politicians, who completely withdrew from his vocabulary the nationalist rhetoric. There was no populist, which is great. He'd always throw bridges to the opposing camps, if it were for the benefit of the country. I will only refer to his decision, at a difficult time, at a time of great conflict with the PASOK, to make Chief of HNDGS Giannis Veryvakis, brother of Leuteris, who was then a first-class member of PASOK. Ladies and gentlemen, the death of Constantine Mitsotakis takes with him an entire era, that of the politicians who grew up in wars and dictatorships. But they were politicians standing. They made mistakes, but they definitively removed our country from its Balkan past. I was not a political friend of Constantine Mitsotakis. I have, however, been - and I have had the honour of being a spokesman at first as a journalist and then, more rarely, as a politician. Because this was another force of Constantine Mitsotakis: He sought the opposite, as he loved the advice, especially the Haniots, whom he considered in a sense all his children. Some people were surprised to say goodbye to Constantine Mitsotakis, writing: "Happy trip, tall." I should like to inform them, then, once again that in the arc of Chania, in the arc of Crete, Mitsotakis was always the "high". To be honest, too, when as a little journalist I heard the characterization, I was curious. He was, of course, tall, but I don't think the one who thought of this phrase was referring only to his natural boy. Those who first said that phrase probably wanted to stress that they never tried to pass unnoticed and never humiliated him. He defended himself and his most unpopular views, a great quality in politics, and his equitableness always pierced you. So let us say goodbye, as is appropriate, with respect, learning lessons from his right and his mistakes. Have a nice trip, patriot! And show tolerance to miserable and depressive!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr. Theodorakis. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to keep a minute's silence in the memory of Constantine Mitsotakis. [[This is a minute's silence.]] His memory is eternity! [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the special sitting of the House, which was dedicated to the memory of former Prime Minister Constantine Mitsotakis, was completed. At this point I propose a short break, and then we will enter legislative work, in accordance with the agenda that has been distributed to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question in the House on Thursday, 8 June 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Halkidiki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Catherine Iglezi to the Minister for Rural Development and Food about the compensation of Halkidiki producers for the destruction of arable crops. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question by MP Kilkis of New Democracy Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios, Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the restriction of recruitment to all entities and legal entities of the central administration. 3. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARK KEGEROGOU to the Minister for Rural Development and Food about the compensation of wine growers, oil producers and other producers for the damage they suffered. 4. The question under number 921/1-6/2017 of the Piraeus People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Notably Greek seafarers' pension". 5. The Question by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the problems of workers in the professional refrigerator industry of "FRIGOGLASS ABEU" in K.Achaia of the Achaia Law. 6. The question by No 928/2-6-2017, by MEP 2, Piraeus, of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos, to the Minister of the Interior, about the uncontrolled action of the hooded anarchists. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 930/2-6-2017 by Z' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of Athens, Potamios Spyridon Lykoudi to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "in a bad state, the Area of Mars". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 927/2-6-2017 of the Member of Parliament of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Gerasiou (Makis) Balaoura to the Minister of Rural Development and Food, concerning the timeline for the notice of Measure 5.2 and its use to restore damage to the forests affected by extreme weather conditions. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question by Mr Andreas Katsaniotis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: ‘An urgent need for integrated management policies in the fight against mosquitos by the state’. 3. Under No 922-1-6-2017, a topical question by MP B' Athens of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zarulia to the Foreign Minister, on the subject: "The World Bank "characterizes" the Aegean in Turkey". 4. The question by number 945/6-2017 was raised by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Direct re-entry of the dismissal of the dismissal of dismissals at the JHA of Heraklion Crete". 5. The Question No 932-6-2017, by MP, Mr.Athens, Mr. Georgios Amyras, to the Minister of Culture and Sports, concerning the hours of museums and archaeological sites during the summer season. 6. Under number 946-6-2017, a topical question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis about the workers at "Help at Home" and the conversion of their contracts into an indefinite time. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 4924/7-4-2017 by MP Evia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Georgios Excellency to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the certificate of professional competence for drivers and escorts of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Question No 3025/31-1-2017 by Mr Attica of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on new pension cuts for pensioners and not on farms. 3. Question No 2883/25-1-2017 by Mr Hercules Iraklios of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMARK Vassiliou Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the immediate implementation of the CSCE for financial assistance to HEIs and their insured persons Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to inform the House that the Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: 'Following the Amended Agreement establishing the General Committee on Fisheries for the Mediterranean'. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Single discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft laws of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: (a) 'Clarification of the Memorandum of Understanding in Sport between the Ministry of Culture and Sport of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Youth and Sport of the Arab Republic of Egypt'; (b) 'Sports cooperation between the Ministry of Culture and Sport of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Youth and Sport of the Republic of Iraq'. The drafts were adopted in the Standing Committee by a majority. They are imported into Parliament under the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the principle of ratification of these memorandums of understanding. I therefore propose that there should be a single debate on these draft laws and that those who object and, of course, wish to speak on the sanctions for five minutes be given the floor. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u31	I have the consent of the House. I have here the Minutes of the Commission. I see that the Independent Greeks and SYRIZA voted in favour. All other parties had reservations. The Communist Party of Greece voted 'partisans'. Does the New Democracy want to take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, we have no objections. We are voting in favour of the two sanctions for memorandums of understanding between Greece and the Iraqi and Egyptian countries. We have simply insisted that we should respond, because we were afraid of being tabled, debated and voted for by the government on a regular basis, because the SYRIZA - ANEL Government regularly brings amendments to unrelated, mostly, bills - in this case, sport that we were concerned with - and that is why we were waiting to see. So we have no objections. We are voting in favour.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u33	As far as the amendments are concerned, I would like to inform you - I have had the debate with the Minister - that a parliamentary report has been tabled. The Minister will, of course, explain why he will not accept it. There is therefore no amendment to the substance. It was a parliamentary amendment which the Minister, for reasons which he will explain, will not accept. Let's go to the Democratic Reconciliation. Here, Mrs. Kefalidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much, Mr President. The fact is that these two Memorandums of Cooperation between Greece and Egypt and Iraq have started a long time ago. We believe that it is key to promoting world peace, not for taratajums and fissile Latin American-type and superproducts for popular relaxation, but as a solution for growth, offering our country a strong role in the wider region with important extensions and for our economy. Since Greek entrepreneurship in these countries is represented with a large number of businesses and investment, particularly in the construction, energy, agriculture, food products, consumer goods, information technology, with potential for even greater growth, we as a Democratic Consortium vote positively and we are pleased that, even under the present conditions and despite the acrobatics, despite its bias and the government's tactics to tear down what we have built over the last decades, continues a project that began long before SYRIZA became a government. It is a pity, ladies and gentlemen, that such cooperation is a drop in an ocean of foreign policy, irresponsible and unresponsible. We believe that, in our hands of another government, these memorandums of cooperation could be the forefront of a growth without litre to our lenders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u35	Are you voting for both agreements, Mrs. Kefalidou?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u36	Yeah, both.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u37	Good. Now we go to the special speaker of the People's League - Golden Dawn, Mr Antonis Gregos. You had reservations in committee too. Here, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, we should wish the students for a test success. Today we are discussing the Clearance of the Memorandum of Understanding in the field of Sport between the Ministry of Culture and Sport of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Youth and Sport of the Arab Republic of Egypt." Of course, the word'memorandum' refers to tolerance, poverty and impoverishment. This memorandum seeks to encourage and promote work on issues of multi-faceted sport. Let us say here that this memorandum has been signed on 4-12-2014 and is now being ratified by the Greek Parliament. We said that sporting cooperation would be achieved in various ways: cooperation in the field of research, development of sports, doping control, strengthening the institution of the Olympic Games, the co-organisation of matches, cooperation in areas of security of sports activities and more. In a sense, cooperation in sport between our country and another country will not, of course, find anyone opposite. As in any such sanction, however, we are concerned here with fundamental and deeper issues than any Memorandum of Cooperation. In this regard, we have cooperation in the field of sport with Egypt. In such sanctions we have been placed for the general relationship between our country and Egypt. Let us say here that our ties are too close. We had a great Greek colony in Egypt, which numbered about a hundred thousand people. There is, of course, a shrinking of this settlement and today there are about four thousand Greeks living. The largest communities are Cairo and Alexandria. As far as sport is concerned, there were twelve Greek sports clubs in Alexandria who developed a strong activity involving too many championships. Also, for example, we mention Cairo's residential sports teams, the Milo Sports Association, which was founded in 1873 in Alexandria, the Greek Cairo Association and many others. So the ties between our country and Egypt were also narrow in the field of sport. Apart from our cooperation in the sport sector, however, we should also be interested in some of the more general aspects. I have referred to the Commission as well, and I shall quickly say that it is very important that Egypt has agreed to proceed with the demarcation of the EEZ with Greece, which is a full recognition of the impact of Kastelorizo that Turkey is currently questioning. With the former Morsi regime, which was very close to the Erdogan government, Egypt did not recognize the Greek EEZ. Apart from EEZ, of course, there are also common energy interests relating to the transport of oil and gas deposits. This is to highlight the overall framework that may escape from the narrower framework for the sector we are discussing. With these thoughts on this issue, we are voting 'the present'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u39	For the two present contracts?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u40	Yeah, I'll tell you about the second one. Of course, as we have said in committee, we are talking about an Olympic truce in the shadows of extreme Islamic attacks with many victims of Christians in Egypt and Iraq, which will unfortunately continue in these two countries and other cities in Europe. With regard to ratification with Iraq, this memorandum seeks to encourage and promote cooperation on issues of sport. This memorandum has been signed on 11-11-2015 and is currently being ratified. We are also voting'residents' in this ratification, with some reservations on Article 5, which refers to expenditure. We also have some general remarks: we consider that the Greek Government seems unable to fight and deal with the problems of sport, such as land violence, illegal betting, commercialisation, which is in complete contrast with the Olympic idea, corruption, conflict and many others. We agree that sport must unite, but not forget that there can also be an opportunity for uncontrolled situations, as in the case of Yugoslavia. A serious point, Minister: you should inform the sports federations of Iraq and Egypt that they should not accept national teams and clubs using the word 'Macedonia' because this is a clear falsification of our history. We have sent letters from 2012 to the major federations, both to FIFA and FIBA, on this subject. We are also voting 'at present' on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u41	Thank you. We move on to the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Vardalis. You have the floor for five minutes. As far as I can see, you voted 'no' and obviously you remain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. The JRC sees in general the agreements that develop friendship among peoples. But we are carefully examining them, even if they have little scope, on the basis of whether they create conditions that help to develop friendship and cooperation between the peoples, or whether they are agreements that serve great economic interests, political pursuits that are directed against the interests of the peoples or even if they are part of the design of more general imperialist centres. With this criterion we are also considering the memorandums of cooperation with Egypt and Iraq in the field of sport. However, some references to the specific memoranda of understanding we are discussing today, such as, for example, the role of the so-called 'olympic truce', the assessment and evaluation of the Olympic Games - you all know that we have a different approach to these issues - lead us to vote 'parties' in the specific memorandum of cooperation. And that's why: Firstly, the role of the Olympic Games is defined, although it is well known to all of you that they have been traded, dominated by major economic interests and have become politically interdependent and major scandals at the expense of sport and the well-meaning speech. Secondly, they praise the so-called "olympic truce" and set the goal of consolidating even in the collective consciousness of mankind. Such an approach, in our view, leads to people being misled, because it in practice avoids the real causes of the imperialist wars and disguises the responsibility of those responsible. Even if one overlooks the role of non-governmental organisations, the presentation of the Olympic truce, as a means of stopping world conflicts, hides imperialist contradictions and competition for energy sources, pass-by roads, the sharing of markets, as the only reason for the eruption of the imperialist wars. Such an approach hides the dangerous role of NATO, the United States of America and the European Union in the wars more widely in our region and between them and the long-term war in Iraq, and defines the role and role of the government. Imperialists are the ones who, with the blood of the people, re-shape the land, and that is why they cultivate nationalist enmity among the peoples. The responsibilities of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government are enormous, because in the context of upgrading the role of our country's bourgeoisie in the wider region, our country is involved in these imperialist designs and with the agreement of all the urban parties of the Anti-Population in the Parliament, it is taking the lead as a signatory of NATO and the European Union plans in the region. For our party sport is a right for everyone, not a few. There may be a bridge of friendship between the peoples of all the earth. For the JRC sport, like culture, is a social asset for every young person, away from sponsors and advertising packages in the fight to satisfy all modern needs. For all these reasons, I repeat that we will vote'residents' in both bills that ratify these memorandums on sport. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u43	We're moving on to the Centroon Association. Mrs Saridis' special speaker has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. After the latest developments in the Arab peninsula Egypt has asked Greece to represent it now in Qatar. This is a very positive development. The political capital that Mr Kotzias uses with very great skill to support and support Greek interests is built every time that the Greek Parliament is voting for such international conventions. The Centro Association will vote for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u45	We're done with the special speaker of the river.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u46	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u47	Have a seat, Mr. Papachristopoulos. You have voted in committee 'in favour'. On the basis of the Rules of Procedure, those who had kept reservations or negative positions are given the floor. Otherwise I'd give Mr. Panjah the floor first. We're just finishing up with Mr. Mavrotas, who had reservations. Then for two - three minutes, by way of derogation from the Rules of Procedure, I will ask Mr Panjah and you if you want to make a position. Otherwise, you who have voted 'in favour' do not have the floor, but because we have time to give it to you. We shall conclude, with Mr Mavrotas, with regard to those who had not voted 'in favour'. Here, Mr. Blacks, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. The reason for the reservation in the committees was, in order to have the floor, if amendments were to be made to this sanction. That's why we had the reservation. In other words, we believe that, in general, sport is an activity that can play a major role in the tightening of relations between peoples and peoples, especially with regard to the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding with Egypt, where there is - and there was - a strong Greek colony with a great sporting past, which is trying to continue it in our country. We would really like to see relations strengthened, particularly in terms of sporting tourism, namely preparation of teams, federations, national teams between the two countries in sports that are developed in both countries, and also in the fight against doping, where these understanding memoranda can play a major role in facilitating specific processes. So for both memoranda of understanding, we are positive in their ratification.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u49	Before I give the floor to the Minister, I ask Mr. Panjah first if he wants to say something for three minutes. Then I will give Mr Papachristopoulos the floor for another three minutes. Here, Mr. Panjah, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u50	No, Mr President, I don't need three minutes. I am pleased that they have passed by a large majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u51	Okay. Thank you very much. Mr. Papachristopoulos, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. I cannot resist the temptation to speak because we have just arrived at a final farewell to a politician who really taught moderation, soundness and at least low tone. I'm saying that because it made me a great impression. I remember. I was a student when I saw the photo of the late, of Constantine Mitsotakis who was not much more or less stigmatized by him as a partner of the Germans. And with evidence we saw the man who posted the photo wanting to apologize after a few years. Our moral obligation, then, is to be honest, to restore the truth at the end. I say this because it may seem that it has nothing to do with it, but I think it has to do with this: Jeremy Corbin 14 years ago in Hyde Park alone, completely isolated, against the then Blair policy and Bush said that the war that starts in Iraq is false, there are no nuclear weapons. He was isolated at the time and was accused of things unbelievable. And today we are seeing the sincerity of this politician gradually becoming understood by a larger part of British citizens. I also want, on the occasion of this bill, to say that it is an honor that Egypt has chosen the Greek Foreign Minister to represent it in this conflict between Qatar...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u53	Not the Minister, Greece, the embassy of Greece. He didn't choose a face. Our country as its representative in Qatar.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u54	That is what I said, Mr President. The country has chosen us. The Minister of Foreign Affairs represents our country. I guess that's the same thing we're talking about. Now don't stick there. It's very honorable for us. And I also have no hesitation to say that Andreas Papandreou - let him be an opponent or whatever he wants - put a very large stone in friendship with the Arab world and the results we collect. We are the only country in the world, in the European Union where it has never been a terrorist hit of this kind. Finally, I would also like to remind you that Egypt has common interests in the EEZ ours. Iraq, too, is very passionate and still has too many problems, and they have lost more than three hundred and fifty thousand people. I not only welcome, not only do we vote in favour of this move, but we want to see it gigantic. In other words, making friends with small countries may not be counted, but they are wrong. It is a benefit to this country that has taught culture and democracy. We are clearly voting in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u55	Mr George Vasiliadis has the floor. Mr Minister, please explain your 'no' to the amendment, for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u56	Yes, Mr. President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I, too, am pleased that by a large majority these two sanctions will be passed on to the Memorandum of Cooperation between Greece and Egypt and Iraq. Diplomacy carried out through sport is central to the newest diplomatic, political relations. And I think it is a field that helps further tighten Greece's relations with the Arab world. We are trying to develop this policy, these memorandums of cooperation to enrich them with other key choices of our policy. As you will see, because both memorials have a distance between themselves, we are trying to highlight the position of women in sport and we are trying to put the subject of the match fixing that agitates the whole of the sport and economic world on a global level. Here I would like to answer a question why perhaps one memorandum of cooperation is a little more advanced than the others. With this policy, we are going on with this strategy. In the very near future, and particularly in mid-July in Kazan, Russia, similar agreements will also be signed with Japan on the issues of the Olympic Games - as Japan is hosting the next Olympic Games - but also with the government, probably, because we are still in negotiation with the Russian Government. And we will try to relaunch the issue of the Olympic truce - I will agree with the rapporteur for the Democratic Alliance - not with the terms of the celebrations and ribbons of happiness, but with the terms of effective intervention. I would like to say a few words about the amendment. I will not accept it for two reasons. First of all, it concerns the Ministry of Finance and the conditions of taxation, so there is obviously to be a greater processing of such a matter. On the other hand, the exception to the total immovable property - because I understand - throughout the territory for the monasteries of Mount Athos may create greater financial problems, which cannot, by an amendment, be passed through such a procedure. That is why I am not acceptable, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u57	There is also a third formal reason why there is no report from the General Accounting Office of the State, because it is an economic issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u58	You covered me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport is finalised: "Following the Memorandum of Understanding in the field of Sport between the Ministry of Culture and Sport of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Youth and Sport of the Arab Republic of Egypt". Asked by this House: Can the bill be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u60	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u61	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u62	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u63	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u64	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u65	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u66	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u67	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u68	Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: ‘Sports Minister's establishment of the Memorandum of Understanding on Sport between the Ministry of Culture and Sport of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Youth and Sport of the Arab Republic of Egypt’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of the articles and the whole of the articles and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport is finalised: "Following the Memorandum of Understanding on Sports Cooperation between the Ministry of Culture and Sport of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Youth and Sport of the Republic of Iraq". Asked by this House: Can the bill be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u70	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u71	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u72	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u73	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u74	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u75	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u76	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u77	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u78	Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: "Statement of the Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation in Sport between the Ministry of Culture and Sport of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Youth and Sport of the Republic of Iraq" was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of the articles and as a whole and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u80	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Thursday 30 March 2017, Friday 31 March 2017 and Monday 3 April 2017 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u81	The minutes of Thursday 30 March 2017, Friday 31 March 2017 and Monday 3 April 2017 were therefore validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-07-S1-commons.u82	With the agreement of the House at 12.33 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, 8 June 2017 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate and b) legislative work, only debate on the principle, articles and all of the proposal for a law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: "Guaranteed social income - strengthening social protection and integration", according to the agenda distributed.
