ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-20-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the debate on the current questions, let us express our warmest condolences to the family of Vangelis Bassiakos, as well as to his friends and colleagues, who left early in life three days ago. His memory is eternity. We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS Today two topical questions will be discussed and thirteen will be postponed either because of the absence of the foreign ministers or because of the obstacles they have declared. We will begin with the fourth with number 404/30-1-2017, a topical question by MP Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Chrysula Katsavria - Siropoulou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the drafting of a national plan to support cotton production. The question will be answered by the State Secretary for Rural Development and Food, Mr. Vassilis Kokkalis. Mrs Sioriopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-20-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as you know, cotton farming has been constantly decreasing in recent years. In the growing season of 2016, this reduction was about two hundred thousand acres. You also know that during the period of the economic crisis we are experiencing, the product supports the national and local economy and has an important place in employment, both in the primary and secondary sectors, because it has a large turnover. Its participation in shaping the country's trade balance is also important as it is a product that most of it is exported. In my prefecture, Karditsa, cotton is the most agricultural activity, it supports many rural families and a large number of ginning enterprises. The continuing decline in cultivation, beyond the economic and labour effects, affects the redistribution of other large crops, which are also facing problems. Therefore, support for cotton, as an industrial product, should be a primary objective of the Government to support rural development in the primary and secondary sectors. We know, Minister, that the product has lost part of its competitiveness, and this is due mainly to two reasons: the high cost of production and the impossibility of standardisation due to the diversity of varieties used and lowering the quality of the finished product. These problems arise from both the poor organisation and the lack of collective production schemes, such as producer groups and organisations, always in conjunction with the small lot. But, Minister, over the past year, important initiatives and actions have been put forward for the product, such as the re-establishment of the new Interbranch Organisation of cotton and its partnership with the National Centre for cotton, as a scientific consultant, with the aim of creating added value through the organisation of production and improving the quality of the product. In fact, two very important projects have emerged from this cooperation. The first concerns the creation of an electronic quality database and the second concerns the identification of the quality of varieties. Another action is mobility in many regions of the country, on the part of cotton producers, for the creation of cotton groups and organisations in cooperation with ginning enterprises, with the support of the cotton Interprofessional Organisation and the cotton National Centre. These actions shall be carried out in the light of the call for the 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme, of which some measures shall provide financial and other incentives to the groups and producer organisations. So I ask you, Minister, how do you intend to incorporate these actions into a national plan and a national strategy together with the use of the measures of the Rural Development Programme? I would also like to ask you, what action will you take to improve the organisation and production of a standard, certified, quality product, in line with the needs of the market, in order to produce added value for the benefit of producers, ginners and textiles? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-20-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mrs Siloropoulou. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-20-S1-commons.u4	Mrs. Katsavria, I'm really glad about your question. It shows the uncertain interest in cotton. Greece, as you know, is one of the two countries in the European Union, which is cotton producers. The other is Spain. Cotton is one of the top exporting products. Some eighty thousand Greek farmers in Thessaly and Macedonia are involved in the cultivation of cotton, especially in Thessaly and in the Cardits Prefecture - which is your region - but also in the Larissa Prefecture, there are many farmers, thousands who are involved in cotton cultivation. The advantages of cotton cultivation are enough. I will only be left to the disadvantages, because you said that production was reduced. As regards the increased cost of production in cotton cultivation and the seedling of varieties: I will answer you in detail, namely what the Ministry of Rural Development is planning, as regards disadvantages and the fall in cotton cultivation. It enters the core of the problem with the '09' measure concerning producer groups. The relevant Ministerial Decision was signed three days ago and gives a real incentive to the farmer, to the cotton grower, to significantly reduce costs. Because with the producer groups, which are now self-sufficient entities - and it is very important - commercial and cooperative law, they will be able to adapt production and product to market requirements, establish common rules and information relating to production and, of course, reduce production costs. As far as varieties are concerned, soon the Ministry of Rural Development will take an initiative to assess commercial varieties, including cotton. More on the subject, I'll tell you in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-20-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs Katsavria - Siropoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-20-S1-commons.u6	The answers you gave me, Minister, in some ways, satisfy me. But, as I have said in my protology, the two main problems of cotton farming are the high cost of production and the weakness in standardisation of the product that is downgrading quality because of the poor organisation and the totality of the varieties you have said. The solution to these two problems has a common denominator. It is the organization of production through the cultivation of collective consciousness among farmers and through the creation of collective schemes. The Rural Development Programme can be a valuable instrument for supporting such an incentive scheme, which, as you have stressed, is described in the measures for setting up producer groups, for quality systems, for training and transfer of knowledge, for investment in assets and, lastly, for cooperation in the implementation of the European Innovation Partnership. As far as I am concerned, however, the problems that I have highlighted in my protagonists, the reduction in production costs can be achieved through a collective scheme, such as groups and producer organisations with the joint use of agricultural equipment, funds, etc., beyond the construction of infrastructure and support for investment that helps to rational and sustainable use of natural resources such as water, energy, etc. It can also be done by reducing the cost of agricultural supplies, because a producer group will have a stronger negotiating power in the supply market. With regard to quality in order to assess a quality product on the market, it should be produced with a fixed and significant quantity. And this can only be done through a collective shape of production. The collective schemes therefore appear to be a one-way path to improving the competitiveness of the product. The Development and Support Tool for cotton growers and producer groups may also constitute the partnership and cooperation with the Interbranch Organisation of cotton and the National Centre for cotton by implementing development and research projects and programmes in addition to those carried out today. They may also provide training to producer groups for quality and production targeting issues to market needs. To sum up, Minister, the establishment of producer groups with the new law and the anticipated ministerial decision for producer groups, must ensure flexibility in the functioning of producer groups. Finally, all these actions and new opportunities should be incorporated into a national action plan, which will be monitored by a national working party with the supervision of the Ministry of Rural Development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-20-S1-commons.u7	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-20-S1-commons.u8	The philosophy of the Ministry of Rural Development is that there must be a road map of production, a comprehensive reconstruction of production in our country, where overall reconstruction of cotton cultivation as a large crop must hold a dominant and important position. As I said, the disadvantages in this crop are production costs and seed of varieties. As you said before, the relevant ministerial decision was only signed three days ago. And it is the Ministry's responsibility to contact producers to see how they can organise, what are the advantages of producer groups and to promote this product called cotton, which has previously been the flagship of our products, because the advantages of this measure in the Rural Development Programme are very important. Therefore, the leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development and you and the National Cotton Centre and the Cotton Interprofessional Organisation must contact farmers to know the advantages of producer groups. From there and beyond services such as ELGO, the Institute for Animal Plants and the Hellenic Centre for cotton, which has a very important work, have significant advantages in relation to cotton cultivation. The leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development therefore emphasises that there is a plan and that it wants to support cotton in our country, especially in the area of Karditsa, Larissa and Macedonia.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-20-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The sixth question will be discussed under number 399/27-1-2017 in the second question of the New Democracy MP, Jason Fotilla, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, concerning the delay in the project to extend the Pionea River Canal to Western Achaia. Mr. Fotella, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-20-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I should like to express my deepest grief and all the Group of the European Parliament and our most warmest condolences to the family of our dear colleague. Minister, I remember Mr Tsipras in September 2015, in the context of the then election campaign, speaking to the capital of my constituency, in Patras, to promise, among other things, the citizens, the immediate expansion of the Penios Central Canal to the Western Achaia region. The same promises were made by the MPs of co-population in the county. Indeed, Minister, the project is of major importance to the region. The Region of Western Greece has submitted its study as early as October 2015 and has described it as a large national project, crucial not only for the development of the region but also for the survival of the farmers in western Achaia. The latter are forced to resort to costly drilling, drawing brick water from hundreds of meters, which are inappropriate for both water and irrigation of the area. I had noted in time my huge problem in a timely question to the Secretary of State for Development, Mr Apostleos, on 22 May 2015. I was amazed, however, that while we are in February 2017 - that is, one and a half years since the 2015 elections - the implementation of the project has not only begun but 10 additional studies are needed to complete the project's study and maturation. It should be noted that apart from the observed delay, the same Peneus dam in Elias last month was found at a borderline due to overflowing from the continuous rains. This, in my view, demonstrates the urgency of the intervention, which will, in addition, be in the interests of both counties, and Achaia and Elijah. It would only take one third of the poured waters of Peneus, which ends up in the sea, to deal with the problem in western Achaia. Minister, the West Achaia farmers as well as the large majority of Greek citizens have a bitter experience of the Prime Minister's recent promises, as all the records of unreliability have been broken, with the sirial of the closure of the rating being the last episode. Since, however, - and believe me - the inhabitants of western Achaia can no longer only listen to words but want specific timetables for the implementation of the project and because, as I have explained, this project is a life-long project for the West Achaia region, which can also contribute to tackling unemployment but also to the development of the rural economy by producing high-quality products that are competitive on the world market, I would like you to inform us: First, is the data on the need to complete 10 additional studies? If so, what are you going to do for their immediate completion? Secondly, what do you think is the actual timetable for launching the tendering process, launching the work and completing the work of extending the Pionea River Canal to western Achaia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-20-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr. Firela. Mr Vasilis Kokkalis, State Secretary for Rural Development and Food, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-20-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much for the question. First of all, in the oral development of your question, a critical opposition has also been unsuccessful. That makes sense. But let me reply to you that as many times as I respond to the timeliness, I respond with specific elements without going into any kind of opposition procedure. I'm starting with the second sub-project for overflow. If you have suspicions or suspicions of overflow, the Region of Western Greece is responsible. According to what the services have been confirmed by all the super-managers - the concepts are technical - they have been built with the intended specifications. If there is a suspicion of overflow, the Region of Western Greece is responsible. Secondly, it is important. This measure has a long-term integration horizon in 2027. The implementation body is the Region of Western Greece. I do not mention that to dismiss responsibility from the Ministry. I'm just saying it's the Region of Western Greece. Thirdly, you mentioned the oral development of your timely question, including in writing, that with surprise you have informed by actors in the region that ten further studies are needed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-20-S1-commons.u13	I'm asking. I don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-20-S1-commons.u14	I am sorry, but there is no official information in the Ministry of Rural Development at this time if other studies are needed. I don't know if it's from the Ministry of the Environment. It could be an intel. Can you tell what the studies are and who the body wants these studies? Official information to the Ministry of Rural Development does not exist. As far as the timetable is concerned, of course, I shall reply to my second question. This is, of course, undoubtedly a very important project for Achaea. No one doubts that. But as far as the studies are concerned, it may be. Just official information as to whether ten, twenty or thirty studies are needed is not currently available at the Ministry of Rural Development. Maybe they're referring to environmental studies, which are from the Ministry of the Environment. Maybe!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-20-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Fotella, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-20-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to say that any intervention, any dialogue, in whatever form, either on a topical question or at any stage of parliamentary scrutiny, I think that it has and must also contain political time. So I don't think there's any question about that. From there, you said 2027. When the prime prime minister spoke election in Patras and spoke of immediate integration, he failed to say that the time horizon was in 2027. Because, of course, it does not fit 'direct' with 2027. I didn't get much richer. I didn't get any answers. Whether there are studies, if there is a need for studies, you, Minister, should tell me and not you ask me to tell you whether or not they need studies or do not need to complete the project. I ask you if they do need studies or they do not need to and I expect an answer. I didn't get a reply. I did not even get a reply for the timetable. You told me you'd answer your dentistry. As I explained in my protology, it is more than necessary to implement the project. For my part, as I have done since the first time I was elected a Member of Parliament, in 2015, I will monitor the various stages of implementation of the project, contributing to the development of the region. But I would like you to answer an additional problem that has arisen in the West Achaia region because of the untimely implementation of the project. As I said at the outset, the water catchment area in Achaea through about two thousand, approximately, drilling by farmers in the region has fallen so far that water is pumped in too much depth, exceeds two hundred and thirty-three metres. You realise, first of all, that farmers in the region, apart from the increased obligations imposed on them - and do not say again that I am opposition - are now being called upon to cover the costs of drilling. Moreover, the water drawn from the depths is now brick and unsuitable for water and irrigation, as I said earlier. And I ask you, Minister, since you tell me about the timetables, are there plans to relieve the population of the area from the cost of drilling until the expansion of the canal is completed, but also the temporary, even temporary, problem of water supply and irrigation? Is there a project to implement such projects? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-20-S1-commons.u17	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-20-S1-commons.u18	Mr Colleague, as far as the studies are concerned, I am responsible for informing you that there is no information. You mentioned it on the timely basis that bodies are asking for it, they say that they want more studies. And I ask you the opposite, but is the rhetorical question: What are the studies? Tell me to cross them. I tell you, as the Ministry of Rural Development, that there is no such information, at least at the Ministry of Rural Development.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-20-S1-commons.u19	But it may be necessary.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-20-S1-commons.u20	I, as the Ministry of Rural Development, tell you that these studies do not exist. You're the ones who say they need it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-20-S1-commons.u21	Aren't you interested in getting information?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-20-S1-commons.u22	Listen. You say, "We have been surprised to hear from actors in the region...". Who are the bodies, Mr. Lightla? Why don't you write them down?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-20-S1-commons.u23	A number of institutions. From the district, from the municipality, from whoever is interested.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-20-S1-commons.u24	Oh, no. Do it in writing, so we can answer you responsibly. Who are the institutions and what are the studies? It's ten, twenty? Well, you could mention 20. Secondly, because you said about what the Prime Minister announced, I have to pick up the glove. And Mr. Samaras has announced a lot of road projects, but nothing has happened. Thirdly, for the Tampakier, in the specific framework of the 2007-2013 Rural Development Programme, this area was included in the Penios-Alfios irrigation networks - you know the best, because you are from this area - three projects: Modernisation and upgrading of the operation of the Eliia Prefecture for the savings of resources and energy, grounding of flow networks, TEV Gaston - Amaliados and replacement of problematic underground pipelines from a pre-installed concrete concrete and water pumping arrangements. For the new programming period 2014-2020, this project has been included, which is being evaluated and soon announced the timetable for implementation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-20-S1-commons.u25	By 2020? Because before you told me about 2027.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-20-S1-commons.u26	Oh, no. I say they joined in 2014-2020. From me, at least, you'll always hear responsible answers. You do well and ask, Mr. Fotella, you are interested in the inhabitants of the region. It's important work. Today, however, there are too many projects and we cannot say a specific timetable. The services, in particular the Ministry of Rural Development, are working in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-20-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr. Minister. As I said at the beginning of the procedure, thirteen topical questions were raised and for reasons of recording the minutes, let me read them quickly. So the following topical questions will not be discussed: The first one under number 474/13-2-2017, first question by MP Kilkis of the New Democracy Mr Georgios Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the "Conservation and Upgrading of the National Stage of Kilkis". The eighth under number 423/31-1-2017, a topical question by MP I of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Antonio Gregos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the "practice of Macedonia" of sports organisations. The second, with number 478/14-2-2017, is a top-stage question from the MP Magnesia of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Panagiotis Iliopoulou to the Minister of Finance, about the "muth debts of the public to private individuals". The ninth under number 387/24-1-2017 topical question by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotarou to the Minister of Finance, on the 'legislative arrangement for extending approved expenses beyond hospitals'. The second under number 442/6-2-2017 is a topical question by the Member of Parliament of the Republican Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the further gradual lifting of capital controls. The first, with number 473/13-2-2017, is the second question of the Athens Parliamentary Committee of New Democracy Mrs. Catherine Papakostas - Ironropoulou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the payment of contributions from the free professions. The fifth under number 413/30-1-2017 is a topical question of the second question of the New Democracy MP, George Stylios, to the Minister of Health, concerning the non-payment of cleanliness staff from the General Hospital of Artas. The third with number 458/7-2-2017 a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, Ministers for Health and Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on works contracts in hospitals and the circumvention of the right to maternity. The tenth under number 389/24-1-2017 a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Eotolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister of Health, concerning the payment of workers clearers to the services of the General Hospital of Arta. Eleventh under number 408/30-1-2017, a topical question by Attica MEP, the Communist Party of Greece, Ioannis Giokas to the Minister of Health, concerning the serious problems of families and workers in special education services. The twelfth under number 402/27-1-2017 is a topical question for the second question of the Member of Parliament of the Union of Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Health, concerning the reduction of the cost of diagnostic tests for breast cancer. The tenth third, with number 313/5-1-2017, is a topical question for the second parliamentary assembly of Piraeus, Mr.Theodoras Megalo-Economist to the Minister of Health, about the risk of children and adolescents staying without treatment. The seventh question, number 365/20-1-2017, is the second question of the New Democracy MP, Andreas Katsaniotis, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the reopening of transitional sections of the TEI West Greece. The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-20-S1-commons.u28	With the consent of the House at 18.40 p.m. the sitting is closed next Wednesday 22 February 2017 at 12.00 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: Requests for the waiver of immunity from Members, in accordance with the special agenda distributed.
