ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good evening, everyone, good week. The meeting's on. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS Seven topical questions will be discussed tonight. The third question will be discussed under number 1359/29-8-2017, a top-level question for the Member of the Attica Party of Greece, Mr.Ioannis Giokas, Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on measures to address urgent needs in the schools of the Municipalities of Acharnes and Race. Mr. Gioka, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as you know, the current question we are discussing today concerns the problems of schools in the Municipality of Acharnon and Phyllis, ahead of the new school year. They are problems that have to do with shortages of staff and lack of logistics. It is characteristic that several schools use precautionary rooms for their housing needs such as the 19th Acharnon Municipal School and the 28th Acharon Municipal School. Of course, there are dozens of similar problems in Attica and across the country. But especially in these municipalities, there is an additional parameter, an additional factor, which must be taken seriously into account. We are talking about areas with a very degraded overall quality of life for the labour, the people's world living in these areas. They are regions with very high rates of unemployment, with a high level of drugs problem, with the problem of infraction, which is not a natural phenomenon, but is linked to major interests, to organised crime, to circuits in this region. All of this composes a really ghetto, which is maintained over the years, with responsibility, with tolerance - at least with tolerance - of the governments, and this setting particularly affects schools' spaces and education areas. The problem came to the surface on the occasion of the tragic death of the ten-year-old student in the school yard from a stray bullet. It was an incident following other incidents, which clearly did not lead to loss of human life. All these years of labour unions and institutions in the region, parents and teachers' associations claim measures that can substantially relieve the region of this serious problem. Such measures are one of the most fundamental ones, one of the most obvious, such as meeting the operational needs, equipping the schools, keeping them permanent, but also measures relating to the problem of dealing with school leakage, the problem of drugs, the existence of structures for sporting, culture, entertainment that give way to young people in these areas. There is therefore a series of measures that the residents of the region claim. From this point of view we ask the Ministry what action it will take, what measures it will take, in order to directly satisfy these emergencies on this crucial issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Gioka. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u4	Mr. Gioka, you know, it won't help much, because in many of the JRC's questions I start by saying that you're right. That is something I do not say lightly and I do not say that for reasons of impression. You have raised an issue which, in fact, is a wound that has abused all these years and its reversal cannot take place from one day to the next. This does not mean that one must be reassured. From the outset, I'm sure we'll both be positive. Already last week, forty two social workers have been appointed to forty two schools, which are the schools you mentioned. This is of great importance, because, as we all know, the problems you have mentioned cannot be solved solely by policing. If policing is not accompanied by systematic social protection measures, etc., it is impossible to resolve these problems. So we must increase the structure and, above all, the debate with the world there, but also their protection from the illegal activities that exist. You know the building isn't the responsibility of the Ministry. It's the responsibility of the municipalities. We know that some municipalities are exemplary in this respect, but some municipalities, indeed, are extremely problematic. So there must be some pressure on the municipalities to meet the fundamental needs of these issues. On Monday they open schools on time again, for the second year, with much less problems - I am not saying without any problems, but with much less - with recruitment on time, with specific recruitments that have been carried out in special treatment - and you know how important we give this - and this year, for the first time, the eight hundred and thirty-four oligopolistic schools in our country will be made throughout the whole day and have specialties. So I say that such normality, which must also be done for these regions - because normality often occurs in other regions and not in those which we have made sure there too - will begin to deal with this extremely complex problem. I'm happy to answer any other questions and details. However, I want it to be clear that both the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Civil Protection, we have a plan for these areas, and we have analysed them several times. I told you our piece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Gioka, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u6	Minister, we didn't talk about police rule either. And to give you an example, a living experience. In this period the Minidium and the entire area are being held, organised crime is blossoming, and of course we are not talking about the field of the school. The police don't have a say in school. The point is that crime does not reach the courtyard or the school gate. The problem, however, is that on the basis of the complaints we have from both parents and teachers, a number of problems in the 'almost one' school year have still not been addressed. We're not saying that everything is in charge of the Ministry of Education. But you represent the government. We're talking about schools, we're talking about educational areas, which, of course, can be typically the municipality and elsewhere could be the Ministry of the Interior. But these, in particular, need to be coordinated by the Ministry of Education to be dealt with and solved. They have not gone on, and I say again - and it is true and faithful - to say so, the portrayal of the complaints made - neither elementary nor even electric lighting - not that that is enough for us to do so. Even electric lighting or guarding a school has a meaning, without, I say, resufficient to such measures. We say this, Minister, because even before death, this tragic incident with the student in Minidi was very worrying. Allow me to read to you briefly just some of the points in a communiqué of the JRC's municipal councils, which had come out a month before this tragic incident. He said: "In many schools in our region, the incidents of attacks and thefts are escalating. In many cases the victims are students, parents and teachers who come out with serious injuries and are justly indignant, because no substantial measures are taken to protect them." He did mention specific incidents. Attacking the weight of school manager at the 1st High School of Acharnons and other incidents at the 1st High School of Acharnons. So there must be a concrete commitment on the part of the Government, the Ministry and those involved at all times, with a time horizon for these measures to be taken. I'm saying again that we're not just talking about security. Here, there must be a whole range of measures and activities, particularly in these areas, from school-reinforced teaching, to additional teaching support that is needed - and they have not gone through a number of issues - so that the drug problem is tackled, so support is needed for the drug prevention centre that exists in the region, which must be supported and put into schools up to a number of other structures and activities, so that there is, in fact, a way out for these children and that we do not get to the situation which, unfortunately, parents have now come, beyond poverty and unemployment that they have to deal with - and we have to face it individually and collectively, we are saying - also have stress and anxiety, as to whether their children are going back safe and safe from school. We believe that the government should give concrete answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes to give your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u8	I do not want to repeat what I said before, but we have to say this. There is, of course, a culture in public administration, one to blame the other for not having its own responsibility even within neighbouring institutions. On the other hand, democracy requires everyone to have the responsibility of those who take over. So one thing we need to see, and to the extent that it is possible for us to help, is the municipality. The municipality is an extremely fundamental, say, cell of administration and democracy on such issues. That's the one. The second thing is to see to the extent possible with the other ministries the pressure for the implementation of a programme which we had announced many ministries together. I gave you some of the facts that we do. Thirdly, it is the normalization that is taking place in the other parts, that is reflected in these municipalities too, with all the problems you have said and for which I have no doubt. I would ask you, and I say it publicly, especially from this area with great pleasure, to come to the Ministry, even these days, so that if we can do things, whether we have been escaped or not through bureaucratic procedures, they have to be prioritised. It is our commitment that these people can feel that they have these minimums, because as you describe them, there are many problems that are minimum. The enlightenment you're telling me now is a minimum, say, citizens' right to a city. I would therefore ask you, to the extent that you have this possibility - I say it publicly - to come to a committee, to see - but, immediately, what the Ministry of Education can do and to see how we will go to the other ministries to deal with these issues. I cannot commit to anything other than what I have told you. I think the appointment of the social workers is a very good thing. That's not all. The gaps that we have and which are not going to have with teachers are also the very positive ones that are made this year so early and for the first time, but I insist, I am sure there will be other problems and I also ask you to pass on to our fellow citizens there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Minister, actually in time. Before entering the next question, I would like to make a statement to the House on Members' requests. Parliamentary Chios of the New Republic, Mr Metarakis, calls for a change in his absence. Instead of Wednesday, September 13th to September 20th 2017, he requests to be absent from the period from Tuesday, September 26th to Wednesday, October 4th 2017, due to his transition abroad. Also, New Democracy MP Mr. Theodoros Fortsakis asks for permission from September 18th to September 22nd 2017 for his academic transition to France. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u10	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations. We are now going to the debate of the 15th under number 1286-25-2017, a topical question from the New Democracy MP, George Stylios, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on "A loan of EUR 138 million from the European Investment Bank (EIB) for the construction and renovation of buildings and facilities in HEI". Mr. Style, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u11	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, in a communication from the European Commission last spring, it is stated that our country has made a EUR 138 million loan to finance the construction, expansion and renovation of buildings and facilities in nine university institutions in the country. The funding, according to the communication, relates to universities in Athens, Chania, Heraklion, Komotini, Mytilini, Patras, Thessaloniki and Volos. According to the Communication, sub-projects to be financed by the European Investment Bank (EIB) relate mainly to the construction and completion of the construction of these premises. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] It is known that the maintenance and operation of a new building requires at least 5% of its construction costs annually. Moreover, the budgets of the higher education institutions - universities and TEI - are constantly falling, with the result that most of the EIT infrastructures in our country are not maintained or maintained incompletely. Since no further details of the projects to be financed under this programme have been published, please, Minister, please: On which criteria was the choice of the institutions? How will the loan be repaid and what role will the institutions benefit from the repayment mechanism? How many and what projects do they involve in the construction of new buildings and how many and what in the renovation of existing buildings? Finally, is there any provision for how to cover the extra costs for the maintenance and operation of the new buildings by the respective institutions?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u13	I would expect your party to be pleased that there has been such an agreement with the European Investment Bank. It was indeed an excellent cooperation, and I think it was a very good agreement. The process was as follows: there was a questionnaire from the European Investment Bank to all higher education institutions in order to find out what mature projects could be financed at a very favourable interest rate. After the dossiers have been submitted, the projects mentioned have been selected. I put down the full list in the Minutes, so that I don't trouble you. It is the University of Thessaloniki, the University of Athens, the EMP, the University of the Aegean, the Universities of Thessaly, Crete, Patras, the University of Crete, etc. [[At this point, the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr Constantine Gavroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] As we have said, this is extremely important because, as you know, especially our building infrastructures in some of our foundations are very good, while in some of our foundations they need supplements. In fact, even where they are good, it is important that they be completed not only for teaching rooms, but for research purposes and for all kinds of other university activities. Of the seventeen projects selected - and these are not small at all, the total is 138 million euros - thirteen are related to new buildings, while the other four are related to the maintenance of existing buildings. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] So we think that this is an excellent initiative. By the end of 2017 a large percentage of these projects will be auctioned. This loan will be repaid by the State and, as I told you, at a very small interest rate. Part of the dossier is to address the operating costs which universities face not necessarily from the money they are from the state budget, but also from the costs they receive from the research programmes or from other sources. So I'm sure it's a set of projects that in a few years we'll see its completion. As I said, by the end of 2017 they will be auctioned. I have the feeling that it's another plus for our universities.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr Style, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u15	I have some questions from the Minister's prototype and I will ask for some clarification. I would also like to make a statement on borrowing. Loaning is beneficial when this money will catch a place and do not go to costs that will not be returned, i.e. they will not catch a place in the country. As you know, high-profile economists and nobels have said it is not wrong to borrow, but the issue is the loan issue is that they can return you more money to get the investments. So I ask, Minister, with this philosophy and these thoughts, to clarify this: if I understood correctly, there was an open invitation to all university institutions in the country. Did it happen at the TEI? The first is that. The second is the following: The area of higher education is constantly seeing that it is shrinking: incoming students are being reduced, problems are being created. Has there been any feasibility of selecting these sub-projects that will be financed or have they submitted the proposals, have we put to Provrost and the budget and are we all satisfied with what has come as a proposal and are we moving forward? Because that's how it happened so far. The question is, from now on, that recompense can be found. That's all. I don't want to ask anything else, Minister. You should also tell us whether there has been a discussion with the Rectors' Conference and the TEI Presidents' Conference on this matter. I also do not know whether you want to answer an earlier question, where I raised a matter with regard to the municipal school departments. I don't know if you want me to ask you. We have in the area of Arta two branch offices of municipal schools. The school year starts on Monday. I know he's not in the body of the question. If you want, answer me. To an earlier timely question we asked here, the matter had remained relatively open from your side. That's how I figured it out. There is anxiety in the parents and in these areas. I am talking about the village of Agios Charalambos in the village of Kato Athamani of Arta and the village of Agnada in Arta also, where small children in the first grades of primary school do not know whether they will have a teacher and whether their school will work in this village or somewhere far away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr. Style. You have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u17	Mr. Styly's dentology had more questions than his prototype, but that's okay. Look, if the money is gonna catch a place, it depends on what place we're talking about! I do not know if we both have the same perception of what it means 'they will catch a place'. Know the following: Globally strengthening the logistical infrastructure at the IEO is one of the conditions for the IEOs to have more revenue. For example, now in the major research programs you must mention your possibilities to do the research, so that you may be able to host summer schools, conferences, meetings, etc. I would like to say to you that it is very important that universities not only have valuable teaching and research staff but also infrastructures, because all together this returns the money back. This has also been certified by the European Investment Bank, which, as you well know, has its technocrats, who have studied the dossiers very systematically. You're asking something that a hundred percent I can't answer if they did go to the TEI. Theoretically they must have gone because TEIs are higher education institutions. And they are not now higher education institutions. When the notices and questionnaires were made, they were also higher education institutions. I suspect they've gone. Now, you asked if the Rector Synod knew. Of course, he knows. I did, too, when I had gone, I announced it to them. However, even before you took an important role in this initiative, they had already informed the Rectors' Conference, which accepts them and favours them all. It is not right that higher education is shrinking. I think that higher education has managed to stand on its feet too, like the other educational institutions. You know that the revenue we have from research programmes is impressively high with European standards and in relation to the number of scientists we have. And at the moment, the excellent work is being done, with various problems - alas, if these problems were not there! - and the question now is that we can actually go ahead with an increase in the budget for operating expenditure in universities, which is really there, as is one issue in various bureaucratic procedures, but which we have tried to deal with at first stage and, indeed, had a positive response from you. Now, for the two schools in Lower Athens and Aganda, I will tell you this: The operation of the annexes you know that I am not lawful. Okay? These were operated as annexes. Creatives cannot exist, the law has been repealed, etc. The Minister's decisions allow them to continue to function. I think it is important to continue the operation of these two schools. The mandate is to continue. And as all the rest of it has been staffed, they will also be staffed. However, let us know - and the citizens also know - that while there are few schools in our landslide, which are very important, and this year we will also do full day and go on specialties in these schools - for the first time there are resistances, if you like, locally, to going to the next school, which will have more children, more teachers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u18	That's not true there.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u19	Because it is not the case - I know - that we are saying that, where it is not the case, we should do everything we can to keep it. But where they are, we ask for an understanding, because pedagogically, it is better for the children to go to a greater school. I'm sure you'd accept it. So for both schools, don't worry, we're okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u20	We thank the Minister and let him go, too. Before entering the five questions which will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr Paul Paul Paulakis, you will allow me to read out the questions which will not be discussed, due to the absence of the relevant ministers abroad. The seven questions concern Mr Euklidis Tsakalotos, who is absent for a government mission abroad: The third, with number 1294/21-8-2017, topical question from the New Democracy MP, Christos Boukorous, on the full and effective use of the Panthesalian Stadium in Volos, will not be discussed. The fourth under number 1219-12-7-2017 topical question of the second question of the Members of Parliament of the Democratic Incorporation PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The commitments to the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the prerequisites of the evaluation without informing Parliament" will not be discussed. The seventh question under number 1119/3-7-2017, the second question from the Vice-President of the Parliament and MEP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance, concerning the theft of electricity, will not be discussed. Eighth Question No 1032/16-6-2017 topical question by H' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance, regarding the bet companies, will not be discussed. The ninth under number 1026/14-6-2017 topical question by the Independent MEP Mr. Dimitrios Koukoutsis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The perspective and needs of Kalamata International Airport", will not be discussed. The twelfth question under number 931/2-6-2017 from the second question of the Athens Parliamentary II of the River Mr. Georgios Amyras, to the Minister of Finance, on the matter of ‘SIEMENS’, will not be discussed. The fourteenth under number 948/6-2017 topical question by MP II Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Sakis Vardalis to the Minister of Finance regarding the Greek Vehicle Industry "ELVO S.A.", will not be discussed. Two questions will also not be discussed, because Mr. George Hulirakis is in Brussels at the Euroworking Group: The thirteenth, with number 1181/7-7-2017, topical question by MP II Athens of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: “Taking measures in favour of the small savers who lost their money with the debt cut in 2012”. Also, the first under number 5958/576/30-05-2017 question and application for documents from the reporting cycle, the Independent MEP, Mr. Georgios - Dimitrios Karras, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: ‘Are they sought or not alternatives in order to avoid a new reduction in pension expenditure by the latest Law 4472/2017?’ We are now continuing, as I said before, with the debate on five topical questions, which will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr Paul Paulakis. We begin with the second with number 1324/22-8-2017, a top-level question by MP Kavala of the New Republic of Nicholas Panagiotopoulos to the Minister of Health, on the coverage of the service needs of the Department of Nuclear Medicine of the General Hospital of Kavala. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the General Hospital of Kavala - Department of Nuclear Medicine operates in a problematic way, because, on the one hand, it has a lot of workload, as it covers a very large area of responsibility, as I will explain, and on the other hand it is somewhat subordinated, since one of the three doctors, for whom organically provided and covering an organic position in this department of this hospital, has been absent, for many years since 2013, being seconded to a hospital in Thessaloniki. There are two elements here, I think, which need to be taken into account. The first element is that the Department of Nuclear Medicine of the General Hospital of Kavala covers a large area, from Serres Beach, the coastal department of Serres Prefecture, to Alexandroupolis, Evros. So it covers a periphery and put it on. In fact, it covers the needs of all health structures in which a Department of Nuclear Medicine, i.e. enthusiasms, hormonal examinations, treatments with radioactive iodine, etc. There is therefore a problem from the large workload. The second element is that, as regards the secondment of this section's staff, they have, in essence, given the negative opinion of all the parties involved, all the structure of the administration. In other words, we have a negative opinion from the Director-General of the Department of Nuclear Medicine of the General Hospital of Kavala, a negative opinion from the Director-General of the Medical Service of the General Hospital of Kavala, a negative opinion from the Scientific Council of the Hospital, the Governor of the General Hospital of Kavala - in fact from two terms, and from the government and from that government - and from the relevant boards of directors of the General Hospital of Kavala. Everyone has consulted negatively, not consenting to the maintenance of this secondment, in order to meet the needs of the Kavala Hospital, but the situation continues and the hospital is forced, in this respect, to operate with this secondment. The question, of course, is what you are going to do about it and how you intend to cover this position. After all, this is an organic position, the institution of which the beneficiary is currently missing. He's gone because he's covering needs somewhere else. I'll take that. However, his position is at Kavala Hospital and in some way, this problem needs to be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor to answer for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Panagiotopoulos, I'm glad you're asking me the question. I am pleased that the Kavala Hospital is a large, serious district hospital, which covers a large area, and that is why we have strengthened it. And we strengthened it a lot. In other words, from 11,546 000 euros that you planned to give in 2015 from the state budget, from the General Accounting Office, we finally gave 13 276 000 euros. In 2016 we gave 13,109,000 euros and 7,000 euros from EEAY. We're talking about real money now, not credit. In 2017 we have a budget of EUR 18.781.000 and the EEA has already received EUR 5.885.000. It was also subsidised and paid EUR 11,211,045 out of old debts. That's the one since 2016. Secondly, a number of doctors have been hired, too, at Kavala Hospital. I'm really glad because you're an active MP. But all you found to say about Kavala Hospital is the subject of the Nuclear Medicine Department. In 2016, then, two doctors came. They were proclaimed seven. In 2017, the four of the seven, declared, and the remaining three are in the process of appointment. And there were two other special and three special positions for the ICU, and a doctor came from an earlier notice. In 2016, nine auxiliary doctors were appointed in 2017 six and six others will be placed. Of the remaining categories - not to say them in detail now - 12 and nine permanent staff have been undertaken and with fixed-term contracts in 2016 and ten and twenty-five people, that is, forty-two and twenty-one people, sixty-three staff, in 2016 and 2017. I'd like to say two words about this one. Look, no one wanted to leave, but she left. That's kind of what's going on, you know. And you know, we didn't take her. And because such things have to be said openly, unfortunately, this was the client state of the past. One Member - I don't know if you were a Member of Parliament in the previous term - in consultation with a commander of the previous health district...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u24	I was a congressman.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u25	You were a congressman and last season there?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u26	Yeah, but go to Kavala. Not staying in Thessaloniki.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u27	But there was something there. She didn't go alone. Someone took her in 2013. I should like to tell you honestly now, I was informed by your written question on the matter. It has indeed asked the commander to return, because they are six to seven people who have left with secondments to other positions. I'll accept that needs are met. Because it has gone to the “theGENERI”, the curator in question, and then to the “IPPORATEI”, which are hospitals with great traffic. Also, to say she wasn't the only doctor. There were two other doctors there and, in fact, a technician moved in to help with the department work. And from what I can see, the department is working satisfactorily. Now, from that point on, if the hospital wants to return the doctor immediately and considers her to be incomplete, this can be done in consultation with the health care officer, who will assess the needs of the department where he is currently serving. Because, if we say, the department that serves has a double number of tests, than the one who does Kavala Hospital, then it can be difficult if the two doctors can meet needs. There may also be an immediate procedure for recruiting an adjuvant physician at this post. I think Kavala Hospital will hire another six. If he has a request, we have credit, we have adopted positions, but we do not go into details. Each administration of the hospital chooses what it needs to ask to be recruited. From there on, this story must be solved between the administration of the hospital, which I see has asked for it, and the commander of the health district. Of course, if it is solved in the sense of return, I do not want you to accuse us that, here, the new party state of SYRIZA, is moving back to the positions of people we moved in 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u28	Mr. Comrade, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u29	If it is solved, I will not blame you, Minister. A MP from Thessaloniki can be found and he can say "why you are persecuting doctors from Thessaloniki". I, however, know that there are five hospitals operating in Thessaloniki with nuclear medicine departments, that is to say, 'ACHEPA', 'Theagenio', 'PAPAGEORGIOU', 'IPPORATEI' and a military force - I am not talking about private health structures that cover and issues of nuclear medicine treatment - and that is, in Kavala, that is to say, throughout the region, in the large area that I have told you, it only works with two doctors, instead of three, with the gap of this organic position. Look, I would never think of asking you a question about needs that have been covered, about costs that have been covered and forecasts that have been covered for Kavala Hospital. I would like to ask you a question about shortcomings in the Minister responsible, any Minister. To tell you the truth, this question has become a timely one, because the simple one has not been answered. To me, it's just a question. I accept your answer. I will just say that here the problem, you know it too, is visible through the naked eye. A doctor with organic status in Kavala has been seconded to Thessaloniki for too many years. I don't know if it was politically covered by someone, but I understand it's still covered. And I understand that the body that meets this request, an extension of secondment to Thessaloniki, for me I believe that it should not be other than the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which continues, regardless of the person of the commander, not to accept the corresponding request of all the administrative bodies and all the administrative steps of Kavala. We must show this: when all zeros are excluded, from the Head of Division to two Directors - what is now active, with this administration of the hospital, and the previous one - both governors - the current and the previous ones - do not consent to the extension of this secondment, it is at least odd that this secondment continues to exist. In any case, I don't want to personalize it. I don't have any issues with the doctor's face. Just, on behalf of the General Hospital of Kavala, the Department of Nuclear Medicine and its more orderly operation, so that it responds to the workload from all over the region, as I told you, I would like the Ministry to see the question of aid, even with subsidiary staff. Besides, in the other hospitals in Thessaloniki, dozens of nuclear doctors, permanent, subsidiary, but also qualified doctors operate. To provide for this position to be covered, as in the other cases which have been strengthened - and you did well to strengthen it, since you have been able to do so, we are all trying to do where and whenever we are - to strengthen this section of the hospital's nuclear medicine as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u31	I'm not gonna answer that. I think I've answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u32	All right, Minister. We continue with the first with number 1325/22-8-2017, a topical question from the Deputy Drama of the New Democracy Mr. Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Health on the establishment of an oncological clinic at the General Hospital of Drama. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. It is undeniable that the protracted economic crisis in our country has led us and led the vast majority of our fellow citizens to pass through the doors of the state - I would say - health authorities for hospitality and treatment. This, of course, also happens to a greater extent in the atrocious law of Drama. The over-representation of medical and nursing personnel, who are diligent in order to carry out their duties, is not sufficient to balance the intrinsic health and, in particular, the shortcomings in staff, treatment and logistics facilities. And, unfortunately, those who suffer most from all of us are patients with severe conditions. As far as I am concerned - and you obviously know it - from the Drama Cancer Law Association, which numbers about a thousand people, Drama Law is one of the first four counties in our country in terms of cancer mortality. However, there is no oncology clinic at the Hospital of Drama. Therefore, it is the patients who are forced to seek treatment in hospitals outside the prefecture, which costs themselves, their health and their families financially. And according to the club's figures, in 2016 - after all, this question has come from the beginning of the year - about eight hundred cancer patients are forced to move to Thessaloniki, Alexandroupolis, but also to the next county.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u34	And Kavala.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u35	And Kavala. And in the next county, that's why I stressed it. The same is true, of course, both in terms of pressure and of the diabetics who have about three thousand and desperately demand a second pathological clinic to meet the needs of both of these very well-founded incidents in my prefecture. At the same time, of course, even a single treatment unit, so that they can get chemo and be treated in the first steps, but then it would be a good thing in the sense of discharge - in a way - of their own and their families from this suffering. That is why I would ask you, Mr Minister, to answer whether you have something in mind about this, that is to say, whether you have in mind the creation or strengthening of the Drama General Hospital, whether with an oncological clinic or with a unit, so that we can deal with this kind of incident, which I would say should be found to us all. In my second speech, I'm going to say two more clues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u36	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u37	Mr. Cryazides, thank you for the question. First of all, I am glad you're asking to open a new section, because I must recall that in 2012 the 2nd Pathological Clinic of the Hospital of Drama was abolished, based on the body that was voted on at the time and there was the horizontal haircut of clinical departments, etc.. Well, look at that, so we can talk a little bit. Obviously there is a particular case in Drama due to the number of patients compared to the percentage of population in the prefecture. We can't have oncology or neurosurgery clinics everywhere. I'm clear. On many Aegean islands in the summer there are too many accidents. It's blown and makes it impossible to have neurosurgeon in every place. This thing can't be done. And especially when we received a situation that was spreading like a "Lego" child game and which is now to a very large extent balanced. As far as the oncological clinic in Drama is concerned, there is a conversation that has started following the request made by the patients and to the administration of the Fourth Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So there is thought - but it is thought so far, I want to be clear - that, with the changes we are going to make to hospitals there is a serious chance that the pathological clinic will be re-established. As in other hospitals, there may be staffing with certain pathologists who can make a number of chemo treatments in this hospital, as is the case with other hospitals of similar size and such coverage. Because the oncological clinics - to say this - are hospital seniors and we are trying at various points in Greece, as in Rhodes and on the right and left, in Kalamata, etc., to strengthen hospitals with some oncologists who raise a weight of the chemo treatments that are being done. I also want to say that I understand the issue of moving, but this is happening everywhere. Look, from Kavala is thirty-seven kilometers, i.e. it's not much distance that they move and there are two other sections in Alexandroupolis - which is far away and I understand - and in Thessaloniki. Well, if that's the number and that's the pressure - because I don't know if they're a thousand, whether they're eight hundred or how many are detailed - the thought we have for both the prefecture of Drama and as a population and as a hospital capacity, etc. and based on the requests that will come from the hospitals, it is that, at the end of the time we discuss the modification of the agencies, we can provide for the reconstitution of the Second Pathological Clinic some pathogen-oncology sites that can bear such a burden, as is the case with many clinical secondary hospitals in the country. This is something visible, effective and what I can commit today and not to say, say: "Yes, I establish an oncological clinic in Drama" when there is next to Kavala, when it exists in Alexandroupolis, when there are many in Thessaloniki. That's what I have to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Cryazides, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u39	Minister, that is why I have tried in a way to seize your position in the sense of dealing with this great problem, of course beginning with the oncology of the need to create pathological, that is precisely why or a treatment unit to deal with these incidents. Indeed, the incidents that are "moved" to Kavala are nine hundred, to Thessaloniki are eight hundred and to Alexandroupolis 100. So Kavala cannot cover exactly this amount of incidents, and that is why I would say that the need is imperative. Of course, you have given a timetable until the end of the year to create even Pathological, to strengthen it by volume, etc. On the other hand, because you mention events and incidents that may occur from traffic to islands, we are talking here about a permanent situation. Unfortunately, you should tell us today, both to me here and to those who are watching us, if there is a record, because unfortunately there is no record in our country, in the sense of cancer patients. So it's a question of this. We're trying in Drama, too. A scientific body was created by Dramino doctors, "Drama Against Cancer", just to move forward - I would say - privately such a record and help the Ministry. I would like to inform you that this scientific body has been taxed by EUR 16 000 this year. So it's gonna close from what I've heard. I want to let you know that you need what you said and you have to have this log. In any case, because from 2011 to 2015 there was a programme, we have not been informed and I do not know if you know if there were any evidence to tell us whether there were any at all or whether there are some positions in the Ministry if something is implemented in it too. Because it's obviously not only about Drama's record file. It is about the whole country, but it hurts each other for their place much more. So do I for Drama. I'd like to have a place for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u40	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u41	Mr Kyriazidis, again - thank you for the question you have added. Look, at the time of the fat cows this sinful organization called CEDEFOP ate, as I say, 7 million from a subsidised programme to build a national record of neoplasms. And you know what he made? A hole in the water. That's what we have to talk about.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u42	No, look why we didn't hit this planet yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u43	Minister, I don't want to go...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u44	And I don't want to go, but you can't ask me what we're doing about the neoplasm file at all. We set up and legislated... Look, on this planet and in this country, we didn't come with windstroke nor were we born yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u45	I respect your institutional role.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u46	I, too, respect your role, but I answer and think I answer the substance. It may be my way and my vocabulary a little bit, but it's the essence.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u47	Because we've known each other for years.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u48	Let's not open a dialogue, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u49	The national record of neoplasms, which was supposed to make CEDEFOP, cost 7 million and made absolutely nothing. We've formed...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u50	You tell me...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u51	Listen, I'll tell you what he's doing, but we need to know what happened before. Now, then, in times more difficult, etc., we have started a process of recording this thing just to plan. Because, for example, to make and say five things on the oncology in Rhodes - basically on the subject of radiotherapy, there is one particular issue - we need to see evidence. It is this sanitary map, the sound sanitary map, which EEAY, in collaboration with the health regions and the Ministry's public health department, makes it. It has been completed in three health regions. One of the elements of the health map is the recording of what you say and operate separately, like the National Neoplasm Archive, which will really allow us to design a policy. Because if you don't see the patient's flow, where are they going, where are they serving, then what are you planning? Because I'm from Crete, I'm going to open three oncology because you're from Drama and you're going to open four. That was the situation so far. There was no plan, Mr. Cryazides, there was no plan. Anyone who had a tooth in the Ministry's political leadership or the political leadership itself from where it came from, opened sections. This was the case, unfortunately, Mr Cryazides. And as far as Drama Hospital is concerned, so as not to leave some things unanswered, we have strengthened your hospital to both staff and funding. And money from the EEA, which he had never seen, has also received the reinforcement from the state budget. I will only say two numbers, not to say something else: in 2016, Mr. Kyriazides, your hospital was reinforced with forty one staff. In 2017, without placing the guards, who became individual contracts without them, they are forty-six. I mean, they're eighty-eight people in two years.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u52	If we start...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u53	Look, I didn't interrupt you before, Mr. Cryazides. Listen to me. Unfortunately, we need to talk with numbers. We strengthened with eighty - eight persons, within two years, a hospital which in previous years alone was undersubmitive. That's what we've been able to do, that's what we've done. I think it is much better than what was three to four years ago. Some people were dismantling agencies, we are trying to strengthen them, because we are now looking at hospital agencies again and trying to strengthen parts that we see to be necessary, but there was no. I think that we are also responding to the level of funding and staffing on an equal footing throughout Greece and specifically supporting the region. This is what we have achieved with your hospital, and what I said in my first answer is true. Just say the whole thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u54	You're opening other things. We expect you to implement your commitment by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Cryazides, please, we're done. Before entering the next time-consuming question, I would like to make a statement to this House. The Standing Committee on Social Affairs submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, 'Retirement regulations and other insurance provisions, strengthening the protection of workers, the rights of persons with disabilities and other provisions'. We continue with the second with number 1361/29-8-2017, a topical question by the Member of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Stavros Tassos to the Minister of Health, on "Problems in the functioning of the Lemnos Hospital". Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the Hospital of Lemnos is also another victim of today's and previous policies, of course, - it is not new - which aims to trade in health and to transform hospitals and health into another area of profit for the big capital and business groups in the sector, of course, from the ongoing sub-funding and sub-sistence of hospitals. According to the workers in the hospital, and also to the inhabitants of the island, there is once again the serious problem of the lack of permanent staff at the Hospital of Lemnos and especially medical staff, although - I am preventing you - some permanent staff were recruited ten, in the last year, but mainly contract staff, twenty-one. In other words, a permanent contractor's relationship is one to two, more than one to two. In particular, in June 2017 of the two hundred and ninety-nine organic posts as a whole of the personnel provided by the hospital organisation are covered sixty-sixteen and there are seventy-three empty organic posts and fifteen empty functional posts, i.e. staff seconded to other bodies. In total, eighty-eight vacant posts of which thirty-two are covered twenty-one with contract staff and eleven with seconded employees. Especially for medical staff, the existing body is inadequate in terms of the needs of the hospital. That's a full-blown enthusiasm. Even with the current incomplete organization, however, there are two permanent pathologists, two anesthesiologists, and two permanent surgeons and one subsidiary surgeon are present. To date the gaps have been temporarily covered either by transferring doctors from other hospitals to private doctors or by overtime overtime by doctors. The demand for incentives for doctors to show interest in hospitals in remote and border areas, such as the one in Lemnos, is also mentioned. Finally, the problem of the delay in the payments of the EEAS to this Lemnos Hospital arises. I would therefore ask you, Minister, what steps will you take to upgrade the hospital body so that the health needs of the people of the extreme Lemnos are fully met? Secondly, until then all the anticipated organic positions of the existing organisation will be covered by permanent medical and other personnel. Thirdly, there should be considerable incentives for doctors to show interest in the positions of the hospital and, above all, economic incentives. And fourthly, to increase state funding to the hospital and pay the delayed funds from EEAY to the hospital.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u58	Mr. Tassos, thank you for the question. I think we have satisfied what you are asking for insofar as the general budgetary situation allows us to do so. I think that too much of what you are asking for has already been met. I mean, first of all, you're talking about increasing state funding. From EUR 1,865,000 anticipated by the Samara Government to give in 2015, we gave EUR 2,050,000 and this year we will give EUR 2,290,000. It's a serious increase for a hospital like that of Lemnos with its capacity. Secondly, for the first time in 2016, he received from EEAY - he had been enlisted and received -789.936,54 euros after many, many years. This year, until now, they've been enlisted and transferred to hospital accounts of EUR 492 378 and will take more along the way. Because now specifically there will be a second wave of payments from the EEA to the hospitals. He's not missing any money. Explain yourself so we don't get any misunderstandings. Last year there was a large part of the cash available, which we are trying - because it was done in quite a number of hospitals - to see how it can be used in some things beyond the immediate and current operational needs of the hospitals, and if this can be transferred, because of the amount of expenditure that exists, to specific supplies of equipment or to hotel upgrades of some projects. In addition, in order for me not to forget, it was financed last year - with EUR 1.642 865 - which has given almost all, EUR 29 000 have been left - for payment of dues from previous years. Therefore, the first request has already been met. Secondly, as far as staff are concerned, we know that it is a hospital subordinated with several problems, etc., but it covers a number of needs, because there are also units and they are in acritical place. So I think that in the context of what we have started for the whole country, it has taken an important share - to say so - the Hospital of Lemnos. Wait a minute, I'll find the exact evidence. Specifically, seven doctors from whom they have been covered have been authorized to call for service so far four have been served: a pathologist, a urologist, a nephew, a general doctor. And there's another pathologist and an anaesthesiologist in the process of completing the appointment. And that's what happened now, in 2016-2017. As far as nursing and other staff were concerned, in 2016 four people were recruited and served: two nurses, one ICP and one IP pharmacist. In 2017 three nurses, three midwifes, one injured and three administrative staff were recruited. These are permanent. Through the OAS programme, eleven people have been taken over. And through notice 7K, which has already come out of the temporary results to them, is a P.E.P.P.D., three nurses a T.T.A., needed by the hospital for administrative support, and a U.S. driver. These are thirty-one people. In other words, I think that a hospital like Lemnos should take thirty and a half years together with the doctors I said, plus four assistants, who I didn't tell them before, is a serious aid in the context of the general misery we live in. And it is certainly better than what we received and started in 2014-2015. I think we are in such a process of covering and any other gaps in the future. And we are even trying a number of things to do with the retirements of some staff and especially doctors, etc., to declare the position. There will already be such a lot of doctors' seats where their service is finished in public, so that they can be declared before they leave office.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Tassos, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u60	Minister, I have here the circumstances given us by the hospital commander in terms of staff. What I see here is that in 2017 there are seventy-three empty permanent posts.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u61	In 2015, how many were there, Mr. Tassos?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u62	In 2013 it was eighty-three. Here it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u63	In 2014 and 2015 I say.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u64	This is 2016 and 2017. I've got them here. The hospital commander gave it to us. These are the figures for permanent staff serving there and the vacant posts that exist. In any case, however, taking ten new doctors and twenty - one assistant, you all know that this is not a solution. That's not a solution. Ten, you've got ten permanents. Ten! Eighty-three were before empty organic positions, now they are seventy-three. You got ten permanent new doctors for 2017.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u65	I didn't count on the four that's moved. I've only calculated the new recruitments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u66	So, then, the hospital is now falling short, even with this body, which cannot satisfy the needs for a hospital to function properly in an extreme area, as you say. Also, we can't always go to this logic "to burn you, to grind you oil". In other words, you "burn" with your policy of "Yiannis" - because this is what this is about - and then you grind it with some oil and say that "all right, get aspirin to be relieved of pain". We want every citizen to enjoy the best of medicine, so that, if any, he can do well. And that can't be. Because your policy does not serve social services so that every citizen, every worker, every self-employed person, enjoys the best of medicine today. Why? Because you want to strengthen the big capital. Because you want to make health another field of profit. Because for the big capital this is a 'fillet'. 'Cause they know when the other guy gets sick, he's gonna have to sell himself out to get him all right. And they can't let that get the public. They, too, want to receive goodwill. Health, that is, for the system you serve is another commodity, such as education, such as everything. This is our basic difference in the policy you are implementing. And that's our objection. You cannot, in other words, tell us that "we give some crumbs to the world, we get some contractors, to temporarily meet certain needs". We want the needs to be fully met with permanent staff. And that's not what you're doing. You don't, because he's the core of your policy. You are not serving politics, which serves the needs of society, but the profitability of capital.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr. Tassos. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u68	I didn't mean to, but you're gonna make me answer you ideologically. At the level you're causing me, that's what I'm going to answer. With regard to the first part - to say a word - it is clear that there are empty organics everywhere. We didn't say we covered it all. But, from October 2015 until today, we have been talking about ten thousand of the appointments of people who have been on duty in the health system.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u69	How many people are missing to tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u70	Don't cut me. I didn't cut you. A serious part of this, in relation to its capacity, is for the first time after many years and at the Hospital of Limnos. And the best we can do for the hospitals of remote, island and mountainous regions, we do it and we will. For the other thing, the analysis in general is good, but to be explained. The fall in the value of the labour force and its devaluation clearly has to do with the sharp decline in its reproduction costs. The cost of reproduction of the labour force is the costs of a public health system to enable a worker who loses this ability. It does not match your analysis, Mr Tassos, the global pioneering - because that is the way it is - a political decision taken by this government and to see in twenty or thirty years who will have the courage to undo it. It does not match this analysis of what we as government did, cover, disconnect, the insurance contribution from nursing and medical care. What we did with the insurers. Think of the ideological and economical, Mr. Tassos. We disconnect the worker's ability through his insurance contributions to cover part of the reproduction of his lost job and give it to him through the state budget, which is tax redistribution for the weaker. That's the reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u71	Taxation from who?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u72	Of everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u73	And the shipowners are taxing? How do you tax shipowners?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u74	And shipowners pay. Not as much as they should, but they pay too. And big capital pays. Not as much as he should, but that's what he's paying for. The budget is redistribution.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u75	Is it redistributing? It's not a redistribution.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u76	Listen, Mr. Tassos. It doesn't fit in your analysis, but that's the way it is. Yes, we are the first government in the world, which in times of crisis redistributes, through the state budget, resources to cover people and to restore them the ability to work, to restore them the situation, except physical and mental well-being, which is health and not just the absence of the disease. And he does this without having to pay the employee money to support and finance the care system. And that is not in favour of big capital, but it is in favour of the weaker, lower social strata, for young workers, for those that we are creating and will continue to form a broad social and political alliance to change that country. In this alliance, you're organic elements if you make it up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u77	Is tax reduction in that direction?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u78	I've answered your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u79	We continue with the fifth question under number 1251/18-7-2017 of the F Vice President of the Parliament and MP Laris of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Health, concerning the non-payment of employees of the company "SYKOS DIMITRIOS & SIA E." at the University General Hospital of Larissa. Mr President, you have two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. This question concerns, as has been said by you, Mr President, the acute and huge problem that has arisen for twelve employees of the company "SYKIS DIMITRIOS & SIA E.A.", which implements by contract the project to maintain the electromechanical facilities of the University Hospital in Larissa. Employees have remained unpaid for three months. This is where I open a parentheses. The question was put in time in mid-June and the quarter that says that the employees were not paid for the quarter of March - April - May. The question is being discussed in September. I say this without a peak, without even objecting, but to clarify the quarter. Of course, apart from this quarter where workers are still unpaid, they are also due to wages and salaries, i.e. six years old. In fact, almost all these six years, as I have told you, are over 200 thousand euros in total, due to the workers. What's the company doing these years? He paid the workers against, uh, small amounts, on the grounds that the hospital doesn't pay. And, of course, this development also created insecurity and uncertainty. And I am using time to do so because developments from one point to the next, from spring to the next, have been dramatic in terms of workers, and I shall refer, Mr President, to dentistry. So insecurity and uncertainty about the workers' future were strengthened when they started their reactions, claiming their successors from the company where they work, thus, after company meetings, with the administration of the hospital in April, and with other meetings that took place next time, where they do not receive any specific commitment to how, the time to settle the debts to employees. Therefore, the questions - and I close with that, Mr President - to the Minister are what measures are to be taken, what steps are to be taken to ensure that workers are paid their jobs immediately and, of course, what will become of the object that these workers have been dealing with? We say that it should be served with permanent and stable employment relationships, with permanent staff, with full-time, wage and insurance rights. Because, after all, the service, the work offered by these workers is necessary for the operation of this hospital as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, too. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u82	First, Mr. Lambroulis, the warrant has been cut and people will be paid. And there's a commitment that workers will be paid and not the company. So, one is this to get it over with. The decision has been taken since 11-07 and has been sent to the Commissioner. You give me the opportunity to say two, three things in relation to a number of contractors and procedures to support hospitals from workshops, etc. We're in a war of many reasons. On the one hand we have all these companies that are basically cleanliness, food, care, but they are also maintaining electromechanical equipment in a number of hospitals, which are overpricing too much. For some time there have been competitions. There are companies that have received extensions since 2012, since 2013, since 2014. We're trying to get them out of here. We've made laws twice. The first time the S.T.A. hit us. We will continue after the legislation for the second time. Even today after the second legislation - beware - there are judges from all over Greece who are making temporary orders - and the competition is completed - and they say that we should not appoint this staff with individual contracts. Of course they are not permanent, but they are clearly better in terms of both money and insurance than the contractor's working middle-ages. There is an intermediate solution that we have thought of here, which is not better but is clearly better than that which we have, that is to say, to agree with a company that costs us the services, the maintenance of electromechanical equipment and we pay it. There was a question of money laundering because the contract had been extended and the Commissioner did not sign the money. Costs have been legalised, there has been a concrete consultation by the hospital commander to give this amount to the workers themselves, the warrants have been cut off and they have gone to be approved and paid. But there is this. We thought of another interim solution. If we cannot make individual contracts of employment, there should be evidence of such services in a service document with people who want to join the hospital. We have a limit to permanent appointments, what to do? - and we know. We have announced with the last two notices positions for two hundred and fifty technical staff throughout the country. That's what we've been able to call. A solution, therefore, which is in the direction of getting away from the contractors is this. The point is, there's a war in progress. The contractors themselves are appealing and some decisions are against them. But it's three out of ten. The seven relate to temporary orders to stop recruitment. Three out of ten are to keep going. And this thing with the Court of Auditors - but, basically, this is from the other justice, from there they make the decisions - it happens all the time. Such a war is taking place which deprives us of the opportunity to do so as we wish. And on the one hand they do this, and on the other hand, they are pushing to open a competition again to win it. Understand? And it now begins a new cycle of action when workers take over for the non-return of their payments. They do such things too. So that's what's going on. There will be some central intervention in this. I'll say it very clearly. Once we have legislated twice - and we have been adapted on the basis of what they have said to us both to the Court of Auditors and to what has been described and the decision of the Council. which threw the first decision - it cannot be said in a provincial hospital that you will not go into individual contracts because they have appealed - which will end in three years' time - and will go to the European Court of Justice. They're going to court to cancel the political choice you've made. That's the reality, and that's what we're doing. As far as this is concerned, it has been solved even late.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I listened carefully. You mentioned the prospect of this type of contract and how the government thinks to plan, if you like, to launch solutions or, anyway, the need to meet the needs of jobs. We say, I repeat - and we say this to the question - that is our position - permanent and stable work, recruitment of permanent staff with what this entails for the worker himself, but also for the service he will offer, the work he will offer, wherever he is recruited. Secondly, I will not talk here about the reproduction of the labour force and the reduction or increase of non-wage costs. We are talking about wage costs, that is, wages. You said, too, you made a very small report, that they'd be paid. I have an explanation here about my prototype, Mr President. Workers weren't paid for six years, but they were taken against them. All these administrative, business, workers are being discussed. The Commissioner has approved the budget. 60% of this budget can cover the unpaid, unpaid workers. And judicial decisions are now coming, because the legislation allows it, and they hierarchize third-party workers in order to meet any requirements for the specific sums from the undertaking in question that has public, insurance, banks, etc. The one with the law booze. I am not considering whether you were government or not, nor is the worker concerned. The worker is currently involved and burns him to take this money, which he has worked for and owes, and owes it to him. Also, this company started redundancies. Will these workers receive compensation while they are owed six years, as well as this year's salaries and leave allowance? All this when and how? So what until then? Are they going to live against them? Against life, against work. This cannot be done, Minister. Of course, if legislation is needed, and this way of making use of any pressures can be put in whatever direction and responsibility it takes in order for these workers to be paid.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u86	You probably didn't understand the first answer. I told you, on 16-6-2017, the law was notified to the hospital. From 15-6-2017 a concession between this company and its employees....
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u87	I'm sorry, Minister, the company has assigned the staff to the hospital and the hospital can't afford to be brought before the legal counsel of the hospital to the courts, and the workers are third to be paid for.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u88	Don't cut me. You've lost issues. The Legal Adviser asked a question. The questions of the Legal Adviser were answered. On 11-7-2017- an excerpt of a practical board meeting - a decision was made, among other things, to issue a cash warrant with workers' beneficiaries, I said before, of the EU's "SYCHEMITRIOS & SIA" company and to get the warrant to sign it to the Commissioner to get paid.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u89	The Commissioner approved it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u90	Well, they'll pay for it. What are you talking to me? The problem was that there was a matter at the beginning of the money laundering, and then that a frustration that exists everywhere tells you 'why would they get it straight'? That's solved.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u91	Do you know that a contract has been filed and the workers have stopped the process?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u92	That I can't know, no. I can't know that. I know that part that's about the hospital having to pay for work these workers provided, so it's solved. Secondly, I should like to state here something which we are preparing for, and if we can also come as an amendment to the Ministry of Labour's draft law, which has a number of very good regulations in relation to employers' arbitrariness. We'll add one more. If we can get it ready, we might be able to make it through this bill. He will say that apart from insurance and tax information, an employer who takes state money, either from hospitals or from insurance funds, he must also submit wage information. With EEAY there is the big problem in this, that is, a clinic that they take every month from EEAY can't owe eight and nine months to workers. There will be a process with proof through the bank not through a responsible statement that it has paid at least two or three months behind the month to be paid. So if you get money in August, you'd have paid your employees' wages by June or May. We will see this delay on the basis of the delay that EEAY can do as well. The same can be done with the hospitals, too, in many. Because there are other cleaning or storage synergies that remain, which, while being paid by the hospitals, also give to their own workers. They're taking again a few of them against each other. This way they will not be able to be paid if they do not prove they have paid. We are preparing this because we have dealt with it in many respects.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Minister. Before entering the last time-limited question, I will read the questions which will not be answered as a result of an impediment to the Ministers responsible. The tenth under number 976-6-2017 a topical question from the Plenipotentiary Halkidiki of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Saving Vlachos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Halkidiki Law Deficiencies are jeopardising the lives of citizens" will not be discussed due to the obstruction of Mr. Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Polakis, even though he is here - "it is not discussed" is the reasoning. The eleventh question under number 923/1-6/2017 of the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of Education, Research and Religion, on the subject: "Fulfilment of the Battle of the nation" will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Minister of Education, Research and Religion Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou. These questions will be redefined for discussion. The first under number 1332/28-8-2017, the first question of the first cycle of the Member of the Dodecanese coalition of the Radical Left, Elias Kamaterou, to the Minister of Finance, on the topic: "A calculation based on the old history of a building" will not be discussed due to an impediment of the relevant State Secretary and will not be redefined for discussion. The sixth, under No 1257/21-7-2017, topical question by Independent MEP 2, Theocharis Theocharis to the Minister of Finance, on taxation of public benefits and charitable institutions will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the relevant Minister and will not be redefined for discussion. Ms. Catherine Papanatziou, State Secretary for Finance, cannot respond due to absence on a government mission in Thessaloniki due to meetings with institutions prior to the ICU. There is also a letter from the General Secretariat of the Government. We enter the sixth and last, with number 1246/18-7-2017, a timely question for the second question by MP Larissa of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The absence of a mechanism for monitoring and evaluating the need for EKA's crossings, waterways and aerospaces." Mr. Barriott, you have two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u94	From land, air and sea, Mr President, not just seamen. The question is whether or not they are going to be carried out and, above all, how they are to be done. I would like to begin by stressing that the first step is a problematic act for the patient himself. It is assumed that the risk also increases when necessary, unavoidable to move a patient in any way and the likelihood of complications and it is proven that mortality is increasing and even increases according to the severity of the incident. The heavier the incident to be dissected, the more the risk of mortality from itself is increasing. At the same time, it is an adventure for the whole family especially when it comes to secluded apartments, islands, etc. Since everyone is forced to rip out and it is financially bleeding for both the family and the patient - to indirect and direct costs, I mean - for both the Greek public and the EAW, since it is not, as we will see, at all cheap this process. So, then, we have thousands of courses in Greece, unavoidable most - I pray to admit - from land, from air and from sea. For example, according to the figures, which the port itself provides, between 2012 and 2016, that is to say within four years, 3,345 were carried out either by boats from the port or by individuals from the Cyclades and elsewhere, and about 5,000, something less, are the aerospaces provided by the Air Force. Their cost - I mention it and keep it - for the Mississippi Army, in other words for helicopters, is 18,750 and around 22,000 is the Air Force crossing, while about 2,000 are the cost of the floats. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, I will use the three minutes now. So an aerospace apartment, to speak with evidence, which is perceived is...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u95	Where's the evidence you're talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u96	It's one of the answers I received to a similar question from the Ministry of National Defence. I think you have it yourself, you have mentioned it. They're the known 100 million in analytical tables. I got it from Mr. Kammenos's office. So an aerospace store costs about as much as an ambulance. Two hours of flights - from data not included, but known - with a C130 cost about as much as the annual payroll of two doctors from the National Health System. It's such a cost. I would also like to say this: one month now the EKAV Larissa is doing stays in hospitals, the magnetic ones at one, because the magnetic man is broken, and the other one's CT scans are broken, because the CT scan is broken. The result is that they keep going. Here all I want to point out is that no one knows what the real cost of such a process is, which takes more than a month now. So, all those who are here doctors and all those who have worked in hospitals know very well and have witnessed unjust and highly dangerous crossroads, since as we all know from our experience over the years and up to now, there is no system of assessment of how aerospace is carried out and much more of the medical speeches, which are made, if they could be dealt with where they were, if they were made a medical mistake, if someone was missing, if it is justified, if it is unjustified. I said from the outset that most are justified and necessary. But they're not all. So there is no evaluation system and, in my view, because I am starting to go far, the reduction in the lengths should be the first objective in the policy of the courses, in particular to reduce the risk of patients, which I mentioned at the outset, and, secondly, to reduce costs. Therefore, this is mainly necessary in order to achieve this, and a way of evaluating the problems presented, gaps, deficiencies, abuses and everything else. The first question is whether there is a programme, in the Ministry's thoughts, because I do not know whether there is any action - the development of an evaluation system and even of a specialist training system. All the states I know have a specific patient transfer protocol. There is no one in Greece. Will there be the activation and evaluation of telemedicine systems, which exist - sinners - and new technology, which makes telemedicine a very simple act? Also - if you wish to reply to me later - was there a feasibility study to develop new centres of EKAB, aerospace and aerospace? Is there a study to prove that, in parallel with this, some use should be made and some transfusion of resources into hospitals and formations which have specific problems in the region? That's all for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u97	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u98	Mr. Comrade, where do we get it from and where do we end it up? You ask a question, which sounds splendid, but things are harder and more specific, because, as I said before, we have not suddenly fallen on this planet, in this country and were not born by virginity. The debts of the EAEC - and not of the EAEC - are the insurance funds to the Air Force on the basis of the data we have collected and received, were EUR 100 million for courses starting from the 1990s, which had not been paid. We solved that. We have come to an agreement with the Air Force that we will give them within four years 50 million, we will delete all the old ones and of course from now on, as we did last year, we will normally pay them all the cost of the process and the new basis that we have opened and the new bases that we will open up in the process. One and the first thing we have to solve is that. Secondly, look, we are a country that has a geographical structure that does not have other countries. We have many mountains and many islands. There are other mountains, elsewhere there are islands. Only some areas in Norway are similar to us. We need to set up a transport system for patients. Because, as I said before, we cannot have a neurosurgeon on each island, nor can we have an oncological clinic at every prefecture hospital. We need to organise an emergency transport system, and especially from the archipelago, the Aegean and some mountainous areas, which in a reasonable time is going through a patient who needs to be provided with the sanitary form required of his conditioning the services he needs. Of course there was a study of the history of Syros. Didn't you guys see it all? Did you not see, for example, that in the vast majority of the aerospaces we had from many Cyclades, were they discharged the next day? 45% was discharged the next day. Yes, there was fear in many doctors for the crossroads. Yes, there was fear and there's still. When the universe is fired, you cannot expect a new colleague to be able to handle an incident, either new or larger, which starts to get bored or so. Thirdly, the words telemedicine. Everything that has been done so far was just to put the machines on and not to work. A lot of money has been spent on telemedicine programs. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] All it starts working - the only thing I say like that - is what it's done. We did not start it, completed on our day, in the second region of the Aegean, and because of what the administration does, a number of doctors have been trained, despite the reactions. You know, there are doctors on islands who tell you "I don't want to participate, I know" or they say "I don't want to participate". That's not the sovereign. On the other hand, there must be infrastructure and people in hospitals who can help him. Why, if he has his cabin on the island and go show five things, etc., but on the other hand, there's no one to talk to him, what's going on? When did this happen? It has now started organizing for regular events and urgent cardiologic events in six Aegean islands, where this thing is happening and working together with doctors, either permanent or rural, who are in these structures. It's not panacea, that is, telemedicine, so we don't go crazy. In the name of telemedicine you can't cancel the emergency transport procedure. In any case, when we develop the plan, we will make an evaluation of it. We're not gonna put that cart in front of the horse now, don't go crazy. For us, the plan is a station in Syros, a station in Rhodes, a station in Lesvos, a station in Aktio. This is the design plus the basis that now exists in the Megarras. This design covers the whole country at aerospace level. The Aktio for what? To cover on one hand the Istanbul for the emergency transport and mountain range of Pindos, where the visitability is very much increased due to the extreme sports that takes place in this mountain volume and is much faster to have a helicopter than to go from an ambulance to an ambulance, even from nearby, there and especially in some discounts etc. That's the design. We will also continue to have what nobody says, but it continues and saves lives from last year, together with my colleague Mr Toska, the Minister for Civil Protection, the helicopter in Halkidiki, which is a synergy between the firefighting and the Ministry of Health. It has actually saved several lives from the legs of Halkidiki, because there due to Halkidiki’s visitability the streets block and make far the distance to Thessaloniki and the delay that exists is very long and reaches three and four hours. He has also transported patients with infarctions from the street or some remote points of the legs of Halkidiki to Thessaloniki and people have been saved. This is on Friday weekends and will be held all over September. It is probably something like this, but after we solve the other, it grows in Crete as well, because there too we have such problems in some of these areas.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u99	Minister, please complete. You've got a second one anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u100	That's the plan. First, then, we will cover the country with an organised transport system and strengthen the telemedicine part. That's all it's been working. Everything else went in and spidered. That's what happened. We will strengthen it. This is supported by the commander and the subordinates of the Second Health Region. They're after that too much. From there on, we will also evaluate the infrastructure. Also, now with the motives, some qualified doctors are also on the way to such places. There you have to talk to a colleague who can appreciate the gravity of the incident. I mean, for example, the farmers who were...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u101	Minister, if you'd like, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u102	I'm done with this. I'm not going to get second, because I think this is a conference conversation. It's not about a question in the House. I'll tell you about the incident in Gadus a few days ago. There were two rural doctors upstairs. It was an incident with a kid with appendicitis. There is a debate on how to go, what to do and what to do. He had a long time and he couldn't go on a floating medium, etc. He started out in Paleochora and couldn't go. Well, his doctors started an intravenous antibiotic there and his symptoms retreated. And the next day, he came by the line ship, went to the hospital, and from what I finally learned, he wasn't in surgery. They had the experience to do it. Some things are not done with receptacles in general or with quality assessment systems - say - and other cultures. Here it is by having people who can and can have the guts to appreciate ten things and have a transport system that doesn't need phone calls to move, but operate on its own. Because this was built in previous years. Well, I stop here, because there's a lot of it, and I'll only answer if I'm too provoked.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u103	You'll have a second. Trust me!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u104	Mr Barriott, you asked for two minutes in dentistry because you used one of your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u105	You will give me some more, because the Minister has opened the matter a little bit, but in any case. The first finding is'mellinicity'. You don't even understand the subject matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u106	What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u107	We've talked about it before. The curse of the Left was economics. The opinion you have, let me not personally, but you too, are, unfortunately, naive.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u108	Not me, but me too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u109	You too. The impression is that by throwing money, persons, means, etc. into an organization. He'll start working, he's even naive. At best, you will increase chaos if the organization, structures and mode of operation are distorted. I cite an example, so that we can understand each other. Years back - nothing to do with your government - C-130 came from here to Mykonos and from Mykonos to Larissa and a patient who wanted two stitches came down. That's what I'm talking about. That we need to make it possible to have the C-130 available to go where it needs, which, as you said, needs many times and we need to. Now what is the operational coverage plan of the whole country from the EAW is not about the question. You know very well - you've taken it too night, I've taken it myself night - that the incident didn't have to move from "h" hospital to tertiary, but you should have been treated in the health center. That's a risk to the patient, it's money and anxiety for the relatives, and it's a free fuss about the NSA. This to stop, we need to start recording it. There is no country in Europe in which the patient descends from the ambulance, from the plane, from the waterway, without a document setting out who, when, and why. Only in this country can this be done. Only in this country leaves the ambulance in the CSD from the "tade" city in the newspaper, disappears the ambulance and nobody tells you either who brought him from where he started or what the ambulance was.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u110	It's not true what you're saying, not even now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u111	These are pathologies of years. It's none of your business. They're pathologies that you know, though. In order to solve this, so that the 12 million euros that you have rightly done and given to the EKAB can be solved, we will not be able to cover the requirements of the keratia, but we will be able to cover real needs. Once you look at the Ministry of National Defence's dashboard for aerospace, the cost and number is increased over the years: from 7 million in 2012 to 11 million in 2016 and will become 12 and a half in 2017, because it is also in the first quarter of 2017 - if the projection is completed. I wish they wouldn't. And we will always run back to cover a cost that part of it is not necessary. We should take it to do anything but throw it into fuel, at workers' hours and - if you like - destroy the means of the Greek army for things that they don't need. In order to do this, all countries farther from our own borders have rating systems that are not for conferences, but for implementation in the field. Who broke it? Why is Barriots always running from the ‘h’ hospital to ‘hh’? Why is the ‘h’ clinic transiting? Doesn't he have a tool? Let's take it from her. Doesn't he have a doctor? We should hire him. That's less than 12 million. That's what I'm talking about. I'll close as I started: I'm sorry why you don't understand what I'm saying. I wish we had 15 million, 17 million, 18 million. However, the courses, even if we make them easier and faster, are still a great risk to patients and, secondly, often they are also money thrown. They'd better get into Syros to the hospital, Rhodes to the hospital, to the doctors, to the inside, and stop this well. In order to do this, we need to see what is done when it is necessary and what is done when it is not.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u112	Mr. Barriott, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u113	For this reason, an evaluation system is needed. It's not for conferences, it's for implementation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u114	Minister, would you like to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u115	I was challenged, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u116	I assured him from the outset he'll answer!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u117	I think my perceptive ability is high. We're just another philosophy and another concept. Listen, Mr Barriotta, I prefer to give a franc more for a transit system than to have an aerospace when I need it. That's the first. Secondly, the economy is not just, above all, not to make an aerospace, but it is, for example, that opening the Syros station has cut a very large part of the knit machines next to Naxos. You know the history of the floats that we've come to give 2 million a year for all the crossings, which for a route, say, Naxos, again, Naxos is like going, and I don't know where, like he's working a tanker.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u118	All the floats were 2 million for five years.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u119	Listen to me. Don't throw yourself at me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u120	Don't open a dialogue, please, too, so we can finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u121	Secondly, it is the cost of the helicopter that the EKAB had, and another is the cost of the helicopters that the Air Force has. EKAB's helicopters were allowed to erase. We're opening another wound now, but I don't want to say anything. There could be announcements tomorrow on a series of things that would be very good. See what they signed as a maintenance contract when they bought them. Because the whole story was done to get the market mix.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u122	You're right, but what does that have to do with it now? It has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u123	Listen, Mr. Barriotta. I repeat to you: an evaluation system will exist, when we have covered in an undoubted way the need to cover, spatially and chronologically, the Greek area in an emergency transport system, which we do not have as we want to do now. What you say we do first, Mr Barriotta, is done by a lot of doctors and the EMCDDA and the EMCDDA. The doctors of the National Health Center, the second degree, are the ones who are also in the EKAB who handle all these stories. They can appreciate whether they have to pick up a helicopter at night or have to pick it up in the morning. And that's what's happening now. From there on, I understand that you are asking the question, because at practical value it has no effect. What we did was with this funding, which was for the first time, from what you acknowledged, with the 12 million to pay off and a very large part of the debt of the Air Force, which had been left unpaid for decades. And when we complete the system of courses with the design I have said, then we will also go for the evaluation system for the colleagues who are there.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Minister, and all colleagues. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-04-S1-commons.u125	With the consent of the House at the time of 19.56 the sitting for the next Wednesday, September 6, 2017, at 14.00, on the subject of the House's work: legislative work, according to the agenda to be distributed.
