ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: According to Parliament's 26-7-2017 authorisation, PNI's minutes were confirmed by the Bureau at its meetings of Wednesday, July 26, 2017, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Agreements for the modernisation of the institutional framework for the organisation and operation of municipal waste water operations (ICT)’. - Arrangements relating to the organization, operation, financial and personnel of the O.T.A. - European Groupings for Territorial Cooperation - Citizens' Register and other provisions'.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Adaptation of Greek legislation to the provisions of Directive (EU) 2016/881 and other provisions’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 24 July 2017 to discuss the draft law at two single meetings in principle, on articles and on amendments. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u5	I would also like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u6	Here, Mr. Mada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u7	Mr President, I think we should talk a little bit about the procedure. From what we've discussed, not everyone, there's a mood, if we could finish tonight. Of course, there are several amendments. I think we can begin, if there is no objection, by presenting the amendments which have not been tabled to the committees, so that we can also get a knowledge. And so, with an effort, if we can and if everyone agrees, we shall finish this evening's sitting. That's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u8	Let's do this: Let's first see the number of speakers who will be registered and we'll talk about it later. Don't you agree with that, Mr. Kutsuko?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u9	Mr President, I was chaired by myself in the committee. I have consulted representatives of almost all the parties and have no objections, if we can, until night. Obviously, you will not be presided over at the end, but inform the rest of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u10	I said this: Let us see the list of people who are enrolled and decide together to unify the sitting. That's what I said. Do we all agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u11	Mr President, I would like to have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u12	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u13	Thank you. I have no objection to trying to finish tonight. I had also expressed it to the chairman of the committee, when I saw that the debate was over and that we had a gap this morning. But so far we have received amendments. Therefore, I agree with the proposal, provided that you give us - as long as the list is regularly developing and allowing us time to end tonight - the reason to talk about the amendments and certain articles, because we are not prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u14	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u15	You agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, I would like to have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u17	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is a matter here, there is a question of poor legislation. And the Bureau has responsibilities, Mr President. Eighteen amendments have been tabled so far...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u19	Nineteen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u20	Nineteen! Another one has just been filed. This is the body of the bill and these are the amendments. That's light as a dick, and that's heavy as a spoon. These are nineteen amendments on matters - look out! - from the insurance and tax information of the Concert Hall of Music, up to the five aircraft of the Navy and their upgrade, to the cost of the parking garage at the "Stavros Niarchos". And you come here to discuss four or five hours with'spray, wipe, finish' procedures so serious?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u21	Who said that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u22	I would therefore say, Mr President, that you, too, have the responsibility of preventing such waves and tsunamis of bad legislation. So we as a river - and this is a statement - are moving out. We are protesting about this deterioration of the Greek Parliament, and we call on the Bureau of Parliament and the Government, which is accelerating in this wrong way, to think that when you were opposition, you were on the tiles and you were stoned when you were in the face of such conditions and such misdemocratic phenomena. Now, you've done bread cheese. We are withdrawing and denounced by this procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u23	Yes, sir. I do not want to interrupt you, but from the twelve amendments, the six have been accepted in committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u24	We're leaving.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u25	All right, you have the right to do whatever you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u26	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u27	Here, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u28	Mr President, I am very sorry, but here we have a bombardment of amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, I have been informed that since 12:00, the six have been accepted in committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u30	No, Mr President, that is not the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u31	They are 20 amendments to the whole of them, six of which have been accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, I have not interrupted anyone. Firstly, the six amendments were debated yesterday and in the committees, those which were until yesterday. But today, from 13.00 p.m., thirteen amendments have been tabled and, possibly, others will come. That is unacceptable. And they are amendments from other ministries, which do not concern the Ministry of Finance. It is not possible by such a process to continue this situation. Either these amendments should be withdrawn - and next week there is legislation, let them normally come through the bills, or I do not know what else can be done, if it is urgent - otherwise these amendments tabled today at noon should, in our opinion, be withdrawn. The process can't end at 24:00, and once this bombing continues...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u33	We'll see. But I didn't do anything, Mr. Karathanasopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u34	I didn't say you'd preconceived. Because yesterday we agreed, but with a given body and knowing that no further amendments will be tabled. With today's evolution, things change the data. And if other amendments are still being tabled, we, Mr President, will also be dependent on this process.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u35	No, I didn't make it. I told you if we agreed, we agreed. If we do not agree, we have a glorious splendid field to continue. After all, we have already decided on two meetings at the conference. If that is the case, there is no problem. Mr. Chiara has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u36	Mr President, to identify today when the meeting on this bill will be finalised is a matter for the government on a day-to-day basis. Thirty amendments yesterday, 20 today. It is a process for which I really am asking myself, and I address my fellow SYRIZA Members how they can and accept it. I think it goes beyond both the parliamentary procedure and the dignity of all of us. Because there is a practical issue, Mr President. The fourteen amendments were tabled just now. Really, do you, in doing the work of Vice-President of the Greek Parliament at the moment, accept it as a procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u37	What can we...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u38	You know, the logic of extraordinary conditions can be adopted to some extent and we all understand it...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u39	You'll have the time. As long as you ask, you'll have him.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u40	...but here you've crossed every limit.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u41	Mr. Pavlides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u42	It's a matter of parliamentary dignity.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u43	We heard. Mr. Pavlides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u44	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u45	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u46	First of all, for the amendments concerning the Ministry of Finance, I would like to say the following. It's a bill that's been submitted for a long time to committee...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u47	The amendments have not been tabled for a long time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u48	But that's not the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u49	Two minutes. This bill has been submitted to the Government Secretariat for some time. We were expecting to bring in a second bill. We all know, however, that the House is closing down and some things must definitely go ahead in this time. That is why the amendments to this bill come, as they will be in the next bill, which will be next week. So, if we look at the specific amendments and the issues they contain, we will all agree that they have an urgent procedure, which resolves issues and that we need to move on now. I think we all understand that. It is the last meetings before the summer and perhaps September it will be late for some cases. Many bills from some other ministries were 'cut', they were not able to get into the process. That is why we have these amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u50	Unless there's a view that we should prolong this House's operation by a week. Mr. Germenis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u51	Mr President, what the Minister said right now, namely 'because the House closes in two weeks', opens a path to having independent amendments to the bills. Already announced what will happen next week. You, as the Bureau, have said so at the Conference of Presidents with Mr Voutsi - you must take a position. You are not presidents of the government, you are Vice-Presidents of the entire House. At some point the Bureau must adopt a position. We cannot hear the Minister pressing for further amendments to come to other bills. Once - I am not saying this to you personally - it must be blocked by the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u52	I did not understand that he announced other amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u53	Now he's said it. He said that before the House closed there would be further amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u54	He assumed it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u55	We were in committee. It was seven - eight amendments irrelevant to each other. We said good. We talked about them. We had our time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u56	I say let's get started.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u57	Let's start, but let's know, and what's going to be the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u58	What if ten more come in?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u59	Any amendments that are made by other ministries will be presented by the relevant ministers. Mr. Paulides, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that it was the least issue, which has so far dealt with Parliament. I will adopt the logic of the extraordinary amendments, in that calendar endings may also define a need for some administrative or other legislative functions, which objectively, with the summer end of the House, should be adopted - if there are - some final dates. At least these amendments are immediate, they are enough for the ministries and they will obviously come in bills, which are not relevant. In relation to this draft law, I should like to begin by stressing that its positive nature has been confirmed, in principle in consultation between the bodies and the productive bodies and the self-government representatives. These come under the reduction of VAT on agricultural products, agri-food production, the exemption beyond the end of a trade in accommodation with a single licence, the exemption for HNVIA in the areas affected by the earthquake and Lesvos. And the amendment that came from the respective Ministry concerning Kos and the return of the infringements received to uninsured vehicles until the expiry of the extension of 14 July and the concessions - transfer of ownership to local government and other public bodies, thereby giving development potential by granting these buildings to local government and other bodies, such as the Ministry of Public Administration. Ladies and gentlemen, with this bill, which we are debating today, we come to legislate on two issues of a different nature, but of great importance. Initially, through the first part of this draft, a further effort is made to harmonise Greek legislation, in accordance with the provisions of Council Directive 881/2016 of 25 March 2016, while extending the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation, which has been incorporated into Greek legislation by means of new provisions. The second part lays down favourable provisions relating to the domestic tax field and covers a large part of the taxpayers. Under the provisions of Articles 1 to 9 of the first part of this draft law, it is attempting to address a number of issues in the field of taxation at European and international level. Initially, the problem of tax fraud and tax evasion, which has been markedly intensified and its resolution is a major priority, both at European and global level. Taking into account the fact that automatic exchange of information is an important tool for this purpose, we consider it necessary to establish an action plan that further strengthens the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion and promotes transparency and the exchange of information on tax issues. The directive that we are incorporating today regulates the compulsory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation and attempts to contribute to the more efficient and efficient collection of taxes. The main objective of this directive is to address specific aggressive tax planning practices, dominated by multinational companies. In order to do this, it becomes necessary that the tax authorities of the Member States have adequate and appropriate information on the multinational companies’ groups, which have annually developed revenues, above a certain amount, in terms of structure, price policy for intra-group transactions and their internal transactions within and outside the European Union, in order to be able to react to harmful tax practices. These groups in particular should provide on an annual basis the amount of their income, their income before income tax, the income tax paid and the income tax due. They should also indicate the number of employees employed, their share capital, accumulated profits and tangible assets in each region of tax activity and jurisdiction. At the same time, in the context of the application of the rules introduced by this Law, Member States should lay down penalties for infringements of this law and ensure the imposition of such penalties. And in the second part of this bill, it contains a number of favourable provisions, as we said, the domestic tax field and they aim to deal with and improve a number of issues. I will try to briefly present the most important articles included in the second part of the bill. Article 10 contains provisions relating to VAT reductions. They are reduced from 24% to 13%, VAT on flowers and flower buds, seeds and seeds and foods prepared for animals, for livestock dominant activity, excluding these prepared products, which are for dogs or cats. Article 11 contains provisions relating to amendments to the Code on the collection of Public Revenue. In particular, it extends to so-called electronic wallets and prepaid cards the unpaid account of EUR 1.250. Article 12 refers to the end of a trade. More specifically, in the case of exemption from the trade fee, tourist accommodation, which operate in different places, is exempted, provided that they operate on a single licence, as well as on agricultural crops with the same perception. Article 13 includes a VAT exemption for the municipality of Lesvos and a reduction and exemption correction is made. In short, I mention that the property is exempted from the property in the Municipality of Lesvos, which has been proven to be damaged, regardless of their level, and this concerns the years 2017 and 2018. There is also an amendment from the respective Ministry, with the same characteristics for the Municipality of Kos. In our opinion, it is necessary to regulate the restoration of social justice and the relief of the citizens of the Municipality of Lesvos and of the Municipality of Kos. Article 14 concerns a legislative addition in order to ensure that the payment of the income tax does not extend beyond the tax year in which the declaration is made. In Article 15, the Code of Heritage Tax Provisions, Donations, Parents, Privileges and Proverbs from Gambia is amended. In particular, the circle of beneficiaries of a non-profit character, legal persons, which are taxed at the favourable rate of 0.5% for the acquisition of property on account of death, is expanded and now occupyes the respective legal persons, established in other Member States of the European Union, as well as the European Economic Area and taxed in Greece. The proposed provision also applies to acquisition. Article 16 deals with the question of the replacement of the members of the Committee for the Adoption of Banking Transactions. In addition, the Securities and Market Committee is responsible for carrying out sample checks and for imposing relevant penalties on the persons supervised by it. Article 17 distinguishes services from the Independent Public Revenue Authority and the Ministry of Finance. This is a formal provision, which is necessary due to the independence of the AACC as from 1 January 2017. This is why it is necessary to separate the services of ADI from the services of the Ministry of Finance and to provide them in a different case under that Article. Articles 20 to 24 shall apply to the Securities and Markets Committee. The necessary arrangements for the implementation of Regulation 1011/2016 on indicators used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts or for measuring the return on investment funds shall be introduced in those Articles. Rules on penalties should also be laid down in the event of infringement of the provisions of Regulation (EU) No 1011/2016. In particular, the competent authority shall communicate to the public any sanction imposed on infringements of the relevant Articles relating to the Rules of Procedure, where applicable, unless such disclosure is likely to seriously disrupt financial markets or cause disproportionate harm to interested parties. Such penalties shall include administrative fines, which are effective, proportionate and dissuasive. Article 25 analyses twinning. In more detail, it enables the Independent Authority of Public Revenue to undertake, as a contractor or as a contractor, the implementation of technical assistance projects to third countries, i.e. twinning projects. Article 26 confers public property within the framework of the State’s social and development policy for the purpose of public interest and of saving resources. It is a consistent demand that the sovereign of local government make use of public buildings and public property, covering social and development needs in local communities. The maintenance and management of these real estates are entrusted to entities in the wider public sector either OTA or Ministries, which can manage and maintain them to cover housing, operational, economic and other needs. As examples, I mention the real estate of the old courts in the Ionian Islands region for the housing of its headquarters and services. At the same time, I mention a concession - without any consideration - to the Ministry of Culture and Sport in public property to cover housing needs of the Regional Agency of New Monuments and Technical Works of Epirus, North Ionian and Western Macedonia. The corresponding concessions are made to the Municipality of Ermoupolis Syros, to Nisyros Municipality and elsewhere, covering other needs or in Edessa with a property, again with a transfer of ownership, without consideration, to house the new Justice Edessa. In Article 28, there is talk of the acceptance of donations. The proposed provision allows for the direct acceptance of donations for the benefit of the service, which it needs, without unnecessary administrative costs. The majority of donations concern mobile or services, not of great value, but necessary for the operation of specific public services, such as fuel for police patrols or the Port Authority or the Greek Coast Guard, consumables for disposal in refugee structures, maintenance of buildings, where specific public services are housed. Article 29 concerns the functioning of the Legal Council of the State, namely the introduction of the possibility of awarding public-law cases to private lawyers, in very specific and limited cases of minor importance and by continuous monitoring of their course by the officials of the Legal Council of State. This provision also provides for a simpler procedure for closing cases in the three-member committees, in specific cases of minor interest. Article 31 includes provisions concerning uninsured vehicles. Refunds are made from the paradoxes, which were imposed on those who complied with and secured their unsafe vehicles until the extension of the deadline of 14 July. From there on, the paradoxes imposed on those who have not complied with this extension have been drastically reduced, namely, the cost of this case is around EUR 3.2 million. The new paradoxes, set out, relate to the amount of EUR 100 for two to two hundred cubic cubics, 150 for double-circuits over two hundred cubic feet, 200 for cars up to a thousand cubic metres and 250 for cars over a thousand cubic metres. Article 32 of the Agreement between the Greek State and the Shipbuilding Community on the extension for another year, in 2018, of the payment of their voluntary provision. Articles 34 to 44 attempt to amend the existing legislative framework on public accounting, the single wage and the costs of moving, with a view to their correct and effective implementation. Article 45 aims at ensuring the full independence of the President of the Board of Directors and of the staff of ELSTAT in the performance of their duties. Let me remind you here that there was a corresponding provision in Article 18 of Law 3959/2011 on the Competition Committee. This provision has only two differentiations in relation to the previous provision for the protection of the Competition Committee: firstly, the sums for legal fees are laid down and have a maximum amount, one ceiling up to six times the prices referred to in the Code of Lawyers and, secondly, if there is even one conviction in the same criminal case, these amounts should automatically be repaid to the State. Article 46 lays down the remuneration of the staff of the EEAS and provides for their application to the provisions of the new salary of civil servants. In addition, a high degree of responsibility and security allowance, established by a joint decision of the Ministers for the Interior and Finance, and the remuneration of the Commander and the sub-government of the EEA, is provided for. Finally, Articles 47 and 48 update the institutional framework for the Council of Economic Experts with a view to ensuring its continuity. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the majority of the provisions and articles of this bill are in a positive direction. As I said at the beginning of my speech, it was also confirmed by the public consultation of producer and administrative bodies and I call on the House to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, too. Before I give the floor to the rapporteur of the New Democracy, I repeat that there is no need to compress the procedure, because Mr Koutsoukos also said that we agreed that the two meetings would be consolidated. However, because we did not know the number of amendments, we can continue as decided by the Conference of Presidents, namely two meetings, so that we can have time. There is no point in compressing the procedure. Mr. Besiropoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government after the shipwreck of the parallel program has chosen the security of the parallel universe in which it moves. Except in this parallel universe, the ordinary Greek citizen does not live and move, who is fully aware of the deadlocks to which this government has led him. In the last forty-eight hours, the SYRIZA - ANEL government has been uploading its work to the markets. It seems that government MPs need stimulant and hallucinogenic injections to vote for the new measures from autumn. Greece did not come out for the first time yesterday on the markets. He was out in 2014. Basically, three years have been lost, and you are responsible. But it is extremely important to recall what Mr Tsipras said in 2014 when the government of Samaras completed a successful exit to the markets. Mr. Tsipras, at the time, was talking about a loan-to-kitch party, and he described the financial sponsors as what he used as corpses. This is the seriousness and consistency of the Prime Minister. In fact, the government has lost valuable time and has loaded EUR 14.5 billion on the citizens' backs with a new, painful and unnecessary memorandum trying to find where we were in 2014. This is the truth and the reality, along with another element, that the exit into the 2014 markets was done with spread at 435 base points, and now the government borrowed with spreads at 481 base points, that is, more expensive. You also say that you raised 3 billion euros and hide that 50% of them will go for the exchange of the bonds in 2014. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today is supposed to be adapting a European directive, in the context of the European Union's overall effort to reduce tax evasion, through the cooperation and exchange of information from the tax authorities of the Member States. I say'suppose' because the government in a bill with the nine articles of the directive managed to add forty more than two separate articles and provisions. The adaptation of Greek legislation to the provisions of EU Directive 2016/881 is nothing other than the harmonisation of Greek legislation with the provisions of Council Directive 2016/881 of 25 May 2016 amending Directive 2011/16/EU as regards compulsory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation, which has been incorporated into Greek legislation with the provisions of Law 4170/2013. SYRIZA had voted against this law as Opposition. He is now coming and is voting for the directive, which is a follow-up to this law. This directive should have been adapted by 4 June. You could have had it all right with L.4474/2017, which we voted recently. New Democracy will vote in favour of adapting Greek legislation to the provisions of European Directive 2016/881, as this Directive comes to create a framework for transparent operation and control of groups of multinational enterprises. Within this new framework, which is established, groups of multinational enterprises are obliged to provide data on an annual basis and on each country, in which they operate on a number of issues, such as revenue amount, pre-income profit, paid and due income tax, but also data on the number of employees, equity, accumulated profits and assets in each country. At the same time, they should henceforth identify each business entity, i.e. their subsidiaries, operating in each country, and report their activities. From there on, there are specific issues that we have raised for articles and provisions of the bill, in which the government must either give answers or review them. It is clear that the provision in the case of business establishments, which are not considered as branches, as it is carried out uniformly with the company’s entire business, is useful in order to abolish the imposition of a double trade fee, in particular for businesses in tourism. However, as I mentioned in my speech to the committee, this provision is incomplete in the sense that it does not include the cases covered by the agricultural activity carried out by a single seat. I tabled a specific proposal for a legislative improvement, the necessity of which the government accepted. The wording I have tabled was specific and I expect to see the final text of the legislative improvement. The New Democracy is dealing with the legislative work in a rational manner. We therefore consider the provision, which is exempted by HNVO for the years 2017 and 2018, to be the municipalities of the Municipality of Lesvos, Northern Aegean Region and which have been proven to have suffered damage from the earthquake of 12 June. However, citizens and businesses who have suffered damage from the recent earthquake in Kos should also be included. I also asked two questions to the political leadership of the Ministry of Finance, which were not answered, as to whether or not the exemption of the reduced VAT rates applicable to Kos and Lesvos will be extended after 2018, and whether the imposition of the night’s charge on tourism for these islands will be suspended, a tax which the New Democracy has committed to abolishing. I have also pointed out, with regard to the same article, the problem with paragraph 2, since it is clear that only those declared in the time-limits of tax declarations E1 will be taken into account in providing the discounts from HICP. This means that people with low incomes are at risk of losing the discount from HNVY, as corrective and amending statements will not be taken into account. In fact, this arrangement is a plausible way of reducing the number of people entitled to a discount in HICP. And those who enjoyed a discount on ENPY are people with low incomes. It is another left-wing policy than the 'first time left'. As it has found the way in which restrictions on the movement of capital, which have its own signature, can be permanently transformed, which is obvious if one sees Article 16. Otherwise, I do not need to recall statements by Mr Tsipras, Mr Stathakis, Mrs Katseli, who commits that the capital control would have been lifted in 2015. After all, the value of these declarations and commitments is less than the cost of the paper in which they were printed, except that they have been disguised by reality itself. It is a fact that we have a positive attitude towards the provisions on which we are switching to the reduced rate of VAT fixed flowers, sunflower seeds, which are considered as a farm supply and certain categories of feed, since at the heart of liberal ideology and economy it is the degression of tax burdens. The initial exception to certain agricultural supplies and feedingstuffs, however, shows once again the curiosity with which the Government exercises its legislative initiative. The New Democracy has a positive attitude towards the provisions that legal persons established in other Member States of the European Union, as well as the European Economic Area and are taxed in Greece, are taxed at the favourable tax rate of 0.5% on the acquisition of property on account of death. The same applies to the provision for the establishment of a single regulatory framework for the regulation that the payment of income tax will not extend beyond the tax year in which the declaration is submitted, and the time in which the instalments are paid for the tax declarations of legal persons and legal entities of tax year 2016 are also regulated. This does not mean, however, that we are ignoring the problems of overtaxation, since the citizens should pay up to 8 billion in taxes by the end of the year. In order to help, however, citizens and businesses who are called upon to pay back unfavourable tax and insurance obligations within a suffocating timeframe, we must look again at the issue of regulations and increase the number of twelve instalments, which are currently provided for in the ice regulation. The extension for a further year of the voluntary exceptional contribution of Greek shipowners - and for 2018 - is one of the provisions of this bill, with a collecting budgetary effect, which it finds to be in agreement with us, after reminding us that by agreement between the two parties this provision has entered into force since 2014 on the Government of New Democracy. At this juncture that does not allow for fiscal derogations and an increase in public spending, the Government is making new recruitments to the Council of Economic Experts, namely the Economic Research and Analysis Unit, as well as to the Operational Support Office. In these practices, we do not co-operate. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government cannot, as all points out, be rid of the customer's reasonable and peculiar perception of excellence and merit. For appointments to the Council of State, an increased limit is now set forty years and, at the same time, criteria are abolished, such as the requirement to exercise two years of law and, in the event that they hold a PhD, the annual law exercise. We should also welcome the denial of yet another illusion of SYRIZA, the one concerning the rules in public accounting, which you voted against when we brought them in with Law 4270/2014, since they corresponded to best European practices. Now you'll vote for them. Obviously, then you did not understand the need to reform the financial management and supervisory rules, to modernise, harmonise and coordinate the existing national financial framework with the best European and international practices, to update the current provisions of public accounting and to enhance the concept of budgetary discipline. These were all sections and interventions made by the Samara government. In fact, the current Minister for Finance, at that time, thought that the introduction of rules and budgetary policy, too, increased the deficit of democratic legitimacy, both at European and domestic level. It was a time when Mr Chakalotos was a Marxist, because now I imagine he has another view, since all the government MPs will vote for what they voted against in 2014. Ladies and gentlemen, in the usual practice initiated by the government, we had a body of unrelated and late-term amendments. One of these concerns changes in the conduct of the Chamber elections, without the possibility of submitting their views to the Chambers. This practice is not just anti-parliamentary, it is unacceptable. You are bringing an amendment, literally 'in the rather than five', and without the representatives of the Chamber of Deputies being able to present their views. I urge you today to withdraw it and include it in a regular draft law in order to ensure that the proper parliamentary procedure and order are respected. If you do not withdraw it, you should at least fully incorporate the proposals that the Central Association of Chambers of Chambers of Greece submitted to you yesterday. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy is a responsible political force. It operates constructively in the parliamentary work. Our function, in terms of quality and political characteristics, has nothing to do with the respective functioning of the current government when it was in opposition. Consistency and truth are rewarded by the citizens. Conversely, populism and lying have an end date. That date has elapsed. The lies are over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u63	Mr. Ioannis Koutsoukos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. We are talking about a bill that primarily has tax provisions. However, the tax provisions of this bill, ladies and gentlemen, relate to economic data that go back to the binding work of government policy that we know and have voted on, but also to what we do not know. Only Mr Tsakalotos knows them, whom we have repeatedly asked with our written questions here in this House to answer, which we then turn into up-to-date and invoke a workload, so that we are forced to come to foreign sources to find out what hundreds of forty prerequisites are for the technical memorandum and the supplementary memorandum of 1 May, the day that SYRIZA went to the events of May earlier.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u65	And now let's go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u66	I can't see you going now. I didn't see Mrs. Ahchioglu. In HILTON I saw her on May 1st. We are asking to know what hundreds of thirteen prerequisites the European Commission has put in the evaluation of the negotiation, and we are also asking to see what twenty-new commitments Mr Tsakalotos has made in his letter to the IMF. Next Monday, the "Koutsouku" project is repeated and I hope that the "Minister's embroidery" project will not be repeated. Ladies and gentlemen, the content of the main arrangements in this bill also has another basic feature beyond what I have said. A mutated policy is captured and integrated both by SYRIZA and ANEL. And I will say in detail how this mutation takes place and how it is reflected in specific provisions of the bill. Now, in these two main aspects of the bill, some arrangements, partial arrangements, but also corrections of sinful ones, that is, your own arrangements that you have made in the past, have now been established that they were not correct and that you are trying to correct them. With regard to the first feature, the overall political framework created by the commitments made by our country, it is the ones that you have preferred under the so-called 'fourth Memorandum' concerning measures amounting to 4.9 billion for 2019 and 2020, which will cumulatively work over 12.5 billion in the third Memorandum and the commitments you have made for primary surpluses of 3.5% by 2022 and more than 2% by 2060. These are official papers too! We have learned from the leaks in the IMF yesterday that there is a question of forward application of the cuts and backward implementation of the so-called countermeasures. That's how we read. We're waiting for Mr. Tsakalotus to disprove it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u67	If we don't get the targets.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u68	In this light, under these commitments, rhetoric, as Mr Tsipras says, for the end of the memorials from 2018 or 2021, as he says, seems to be a joke, if it is not yet a mutant fraud in deception, as was done with the other policies announced by Mr. Tsipras, and much more so that this committee will not end, as for the first time the public property is committed for a hundred years. I said about the mutated SYRIZA and the ANELs. See the provisions of the bill that put the seal on this mutation. Let's get them one by one. What's the body of the bill? It is the application of Directive (EU) 2016/881 of the European Commission. This directive complements the previous one, which SYRIZA had voted against and had denounced from this one the Stepma, and now it comes in and favours. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. These are the provisions of public accounting, that is to say an overall framework that streamlined the monitoring, execution and transparently organised the use of public finances, which also SYRIZA had denounced and was the main rapporteur of Mr Tsakalots. It's worth seeing what he said when he voted for this law. Also, in the same logic are the provisions concerning the extension by one year of the previous government's agreement in 2013 with the shipping community, which you also denounced. Ladies and gentlemen, the most characteristic example of a mutant policy and a plausible policy is the provision of Article 45 on the costs of the former President of ELSTAT, as you did not wake up one day and remember that Mr Georgiou has been subjected to enormous suffering and has paid out of his pocket to protect against all these falsehoods, which said that the country had no deficits in 2008 or 2010, but that Mr Georgiou made them in 2009 to put the country in the memorials. And now you've put the tail on your legs and you're coming listening to compensation Mr. Georgios. Only I have to note that the damage from these falsehoods by these "sprayed" who made careers and became power is great for the country. And now you also charge the people to pay the costs. From your pocket you have to pay for this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u69	You've exhausted your rigour, Mr. Kutsuko.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that we will be voting in favour of the provisions of the bill that relate to our own political logic, such as I explained earlier and the great effort we have made to tackle, with reforms and changes, problems that have led the country to a crisis, does not mean that we are embracing your views, not much more that we are giving you abduction of sins. We will also vote on the provisions which correct your own sins. Because we told you that you were wrongly taking the farm supplies to the high rate to 24%. It is also at the expense of the liquidity of the agricultural sector and you will create credit balances. You didn't hear us. You brought a correction. You have now found that you have missed something, that is correcting it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u71	You're more experienced.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u72	We will support this as well. But it is necessary, ladies and gentlemen, for the man to come here with the pot, to tell us that these flowers had 13%, and if we cut them off, that is, the blooming flowers, they are 24% and we have to solve them? That's where we have to get there, trouble people, and then they come and say thank you? It reminds me of Hoja's cabin. This is a serious and a left policy? I don't think so. That's not what you're honored for. In the same context, we will also be voting in favour of corrective interventions in the cradle created by fines on uninsured cars, as well as the abolition of the double trade fee on a profession which you have imposed. We are in favour of the arrangements for exemption from the ETUC of Lesvos earthquakes. We told the committee that there should also be provision for the earthquakes in Kos. Mr. Maniotis, with a step in the PASOK, visited Kos, as well as a large governmental step. The damages are found. The engineers have recorded them. The whole legislative improvement should come here, not only for the ENPI, but also for the other tax facilities, which we know should be done in this case. I have also said so to the committee, we agree with the transfer of public property to local government. In your previous piece of legislation, you carried nine properties, if I remember correctly. In this piece of legislation you have three - four and you added one amendment. So I told you in committee that this is being done unreservedly. It is done in a way that one cannot claim to be transparent and obey certain criteria. I tabled the amendment concerning the property claimed by the Municipality of Ilida on the beach of Kuruta last time. She said the Minister didn't know. So now that he knows, and Mr. Chakalotos also visited us, ask him. And let me tell you one more thing. Ask the Members of the SYRIZA of Elijah to tell you if they agree. Why are you doing this? You're doing this because some mayors like you and some people don't like you? You're doing this because you're panicky. Why are local communities telling you that they'll be alienated from the public property that goes to the superstate? And finally, in the amendment you have tabled, you are transferring real estate to the Ministries. My thoughts are that you only do it for one reason. You're doing this to get out of the superstition. Otherwise, it doesn't explain. Mr. Tsakalotos is also a public man. He is also Mr. Blondos, who transfers his property to him. Give me an explanation. We will insist, ladies and gentlemen, since there are provisions on the public revenue collection codes, namely the extension of the incompatibilities to the electronic wallet - in our view that this irresponsible must be EUR 1,500, as we, the bad guys and you, the good ones, have done it 1,200 euros. We will also insist, Minister, since the deadline for the placement of POS is over, on the irresponsible professional account. Because it is not possible for the microprofessionals of the day to have them mortgaged at the bank or to whom he owes them. The uninterrupted business account must be determined, by your own decision, at such a level as to allow the day-to-day operation of the business, i.e. the payment of the creditors, the costs of the day-to-day operation. Otherwise, you're forcing them to find various ways of evasion. Incentives to tax evasion give and do not strengthen the application of so-called plastic money. We will also be positive about the provisions on the Legal Council of the State, despite the fact that I am not inspired by the view that the President of the Legal Council will appoint the lawyers. They had to go according to the code of lawyers. We have also told you that, as far as the provisions on the NRA payroll are concerned, we want a placement in relation to the level of the risk allowance as a percentage of the basic scale, as was the case before. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that we have said so many times too often - that provisions that facilitate people, which settle administrative irregularities, which are systematically coming here - government policy in such irregularities, forget to make commitments, forget to legitimise expenditure, etc. - they find us opposing, as they will find us opposing provisions that are at the expense of democracy. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, voting in favour of the bill - as I said - concerning the European directive, the regulation, but also regulations that extend or adapt our own policies cannot mean in any case discharge of your responsibilities for what you have accumulated with your policy over the years. The change in your attitude - the one I have called for mutation - must note that it is no passport for normality, rather than highlights the size of psalmology, political fraud and the risk with which you have faced the problems of the country. I don't need to talk to any bestsellers. Mr. Tsakalotos knows all about these that kept Mr. Varoufakis' purse and some of you. I'm sorry most of you didn't know. Ladies and gentlemen, your contradictions are the Ministerial Decision, signed by Mr Juliarakis, on the country's exit on the markets, with reference to the rules of collective action and English law. This is the Ministerial Decision. I will submit it in the Minutes with the request to share with SYRIZA colleagues to read it well. And I will await the repentance of Mr Tsakalotou, who has put questions against Mr Venizelos, precisely about these two features, the collective action clause and English law. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Giannis Koutsoukos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned Ministerial Decision, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And so that I do not eat you time, ladies and gentlemen, the agonizing effort you are making - it has been made by your rapporteur - to highlight the secondary provisions of the bill as a return to normality, they cannot hide these turbulences with which you have accumulated a huge burden in the country. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We will insist on a policy of national understanding and great changes that can make the country out of the deadlock. And we will insist firmly. And to finish. In the thirteen or fifteen amendments - I have lost the account - I shall refer in detail to the articles. I am very sorry, however, that every time we are in a difficult position to attempt in procedural ways to deal with a policy that has become a custom for you, to legislate, that is, in this way, which you have previously complained about. I have no other way to prevent you from doing anything but to tell you that you must make an effort to return to the normality of parliamentary life and to the regularity of the correct legislature, which you are supposed to support in the words, but unfortunately you are systematically destroying it in practice. Thank you, Mr President, for the slightest tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, too. Mr. Germenis has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u74	The SYRIZA - ANEL Government, in its attempt to secure its political survival, has become a persuasive instrument that acts on the basis of the orders and defence of the interests of international loan sharks. This proves Article 45 of the bill, which should have been withdrawn immediately, if there had been a minimum vote to the relevant Ministry. In particular, the mandate - the requirement of the Governor of the European Central Bank, Mario Draghi, to the Greek Minister of Finance Tsakalotos in the last Eurogroup states that the current President and former President of ELSTAT should be compensated for all the expenses incurred by legal acts against those and their staff. I'm filing it in the Minutes. It's English. [[At this point, the Member, George Germenis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] He expressly mentions the mandate that Moscovici gives to Tsakalotos, who in no time makes Article 45 with the command of his supervisor, with which, in fact, the Greek State covers the legal, economic and moral cover of a criminal offence, which is currently being thoroughly controlled by Greek justice. The provision in question is unambiguously photographic in favour of the former President of ELSTAT Georgios. In particular, the Greek taxpayer will pay the costs and fees of George's lawyers. Since the Greek State undertakes to cover the costs, why, while there is a Legal Council of the State, does this not take over its legal coverage? This is the theater of irrationality, as the Greek State initially denounces George for felony offences and then undertakes to cover his costs. Therefore, the lenders effectively exercised in the document that I tabled to read, raw extortion, setting as prerequisite for the dose of the memorandum the full coverage of George. And you, of course, rushed to satisfy them. The provision in question, among other things, is unconstitutional if it conflicts with paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article 4 of the Constitution, on the basis of which all Greeks are equal before the law and have the same rights and obligations. The fact is well known by the authors of Article 45, which is evidenced by the fact that the explanatory statement carefully avoids mentioning the true purpose of the provision, which is to cover legal expenses and, essentially, to provide protection and immunity to the persons concerned and is sufficient to ensure the full independence of ELSTAT’s officials. It is obvious that this arrangement will be reciprocated for many other cases of high-level officials, state officials, see GOI. In other words, they will be able to serve foreign interests without fear of being accountable to Greek justice. This is a supreme demonstration of the total loss of national sovereignty and of the transformation of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL into servants of the cheques of loan sharks. The draft law in question has a title deceptive since only the first 9 articles refer to the adaptation of national legislation by Directive 2016/881. The other 43 articles are, in fact, another multi-project - vacuum cleaner of what the government is used to bring. In particular, it introduces provisions that are completely unconnected to each other in a fragmented, clutchy and improper manner. This is how we try to resolve issues and deal with problems that have arisen because of your memorial policy as a government. This lack of governmental shape results in many legislative initiatives creating more problems than they are supposed to solve. As a result, citizens are being burdened with and troubled, and the state mechanism cannot meet its obligations. In your attempt to gather uncomfortables enter other provisions into irrelevant bills and last-minute amendments. In the second part of the draft law and in Article 11, according to the explanatory statement, you are actually extending the irresponsible. You forget, however, that you brought Law4336/2015, where amendments were made to Article 31 of the CEDEFOP, and then we said that the incompatibility should not be reduced. There was the limit to 1,500 euros, you took it to 1,000 and now you're turning it back to 1,250. If you heard us back then, you would have corrected things a few months ago that you had brought this bill. In addition, the undisclosed amount has been reduced to deposits of natural persons to credit institutions for a single or common account, as we said from EUR 1,500 to EUR 1.250. We say he needs to get back to 1,500. As much as you try to prove with phenomenal words that you are interested in society as a whole, your legislative options prove the opposite. Article 13 reveals your island policy and your perception of social benefits. You continue unequivocally to deceive the Greek people. In 2015, the Greek people voted for you, believing your election promises to abolish HIS and all the relevant tax-paying instruments. And you, a month ago, imposed harder tax measures, keeping HNVIA for 2018, so that Greek citizens once again pay this illegal tax in order to achieve the EUR 2.65 billion target. The exception you are doing for the affected in Lesvos is self-evident, but the same should be done for Chios and for the entire Greek territory, and I think that this position has agreed on all parties to the opposition in committee. By Article 16, you shall appoint additional persons as alternates to the Committee for the approval of Banking Transactions, as well as alternates for the position of a representative of the Hellenic Banking Union. This regulation burdens the State budget and is not necessary. You seem to be appointing your own people here in order to control legal decisions. After all, we do not forget the infamous decision of the Committee on the approval of Banking Transactions, where on one night and on the other the capital transfers of your own people were allowed abroad. As regards the role of the Securities and Markets Committee, it should be noted that the members of the Committee are appointed by the Minister. It seems that its powers and prerogatives are growing, but they are removed from other institutions and institutions. In particular, Article 16 gives the committee and the possibility of a sample audit to the banking institutions, so also the imposition of sanctions. However, according to Law.4350/2015 the Bank of Greece had at that time been given the responsibilities. But with Articles 20 to 24, the committee is transformed into an ILO. In particular, I mention that it is given the power of direct access to documents, even to carry out on-the-spot checks. At the same time, the Committee may receive telephone conversations. Here we have to say that there is nowhere to explain how these talks are recorded, that is, whether they are legal or non-registration. In addition, it will have jurisdiction to obtain information from third persons, irrespective of whether such persons are covered by professional secrecy. All this is judged to be particularly dangerous and should be handled unbiased people who will not be under pressure. But how will this happen once its members are not independent, but are appointed by the Minister himself? How do you guarantee that it will not arbitraryly enforce and how the legality and constitutionality of its decisions are controlled? Imported provisions appear to pave the way for a new Directorate for Economic Control, which will respond directly to the Minister. They degrade the role of justice by substituting it to a point where it cannot control judicial decisions. The Securities and Exchange Committee will be able to circumvent justice and, at its request, to obey the Minister. Also, the Article 17 Strategy Committee, to combat money laundering, has been set up based on SYRIZA's party objectives. In Article 25, there are loopholes providing for the granting of bonuses to the commander of the AACC. The Government, on the one hand, imposes increasingly hard measures, destroying Greek households and businesses and, on the other, offers a mere extra financial reward for the commander of ADP. Not only is this, but even the pensioners of this principle, who will be paid - listen here - for the services provided in the implementation of the projects undertaken by the authority. In addition, Articles 47 and 48 provide for experts - and here again persons of the Minister's choice - an annual expenditure of more than EUR 200,000 on research and training programmes, as well as the costs of moving and setting up new posts. This bill once again reveals your government policy, on the one hand, your intention to satisfy every Memorandum's check, and on the other hand to create your own party army, so that in the next elections you will not see your percentage shrinking. On this basis is the case and Article 29 states that the legal representation of the Greek State will be made by private lawyers. Thus, the responsibilities of the Law Council of the State are diminished and its role is therefore downgraded. Of course, here you have to tell us who the private lawyers are and who will be the private offices to take these jobs! In fact, once again you are using an unrelated bill to promote provisions and laws consistent with your logic and ideology, always with the agreement of your lenders - your bosses and the wishes of the new order. In conclusion, I would like to say that I do not think there is any Member in this Chamber who is proud of the week in which he closes, when we had seven and eight committees every day. In particular, many of us were forced into two and three committees on the same day. Is that how you realise your democratic mind? Is that how you understand how to take positions in bills? Of course, many of you, as in the past, when you voted on the memos, you said that we have not read the memos, we have not read the bills, we do not know what we are voting on. To conclude - and I am coming down from the Step - I would like to say that you, as the Bureau, must tell us how today's debate is going to take place. The rapporteurs still do not know how to move. Will they have a denture? Will they have a tritology? Will they speak of the nineteen amendments brought by the government? How do we put it? So far, we have - in 15 minutes what to put you - in fifty-two articles and in the committee on seven other amendments. Now, we have nineteen amendments. By the time I get off the Step, other amendments may come and there is no placement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u75	You'll have the chance tomorrow to place yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u76	I call on you, Mr President - not personally - to clarify what will be the procedure to follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u77	I've already done it. We have a meeting tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u78	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u79	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u80	Yes, Mr. President. Mr President, during the process we stressed and burned down this industry of amendments. Unfortunately, this has continued. Another amendment was tabled on 18.31', which forms an office for the President of ELSTAT and manages it with staff. If that's an emergency, you can tell us. The government doesn't act handy. He knows exactly what he's doing. This process, the tabling of this amendment and of the other amendments that will be followed, is a process that has made the glass overflow. We will not, Mr President, be involved in a process which underestimates our intelligence. That is why we are leaving the procedure for discussing this draft law and the amendment industry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u81	However, Mr Karathanasopoulos, the JRC has not designated a special speaker beforehand.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u82	It was me, Mr President. And in committee, I was a special speaker. I was the general rapporteur in the committee. Today, I could play both the role of the special speaker and the parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u83	For the procedure, I think the clarification is understandable. Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, special speaker of the Independent Greeks, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with today's bill, as we know, we in Greece incorporate the provisions of Directive 2016/881. I am not aware of the last amendment that Mr Karathanasopoulos mentioned about ELSTAT. We'll see her. I hope we'll see her soon enough to see the reasoning. As we have said, this bill is important to combat tax evasion and tax evasion. It is something that should have been done many years ago in Europe. However, Europe is quite back on the issue of control and internally on how its companies and legal entities - listed companies and not - are legally evading and avoiding taxation within the European Union, but also outside it. Let me remind the most of us - we have talked a lot about the Commission, I do not want to say the same - Gibraltar. You all remember that. These days with Brexit there was a matter with the Gibraltar Parliament. What about Gibraltar? What will be Parliament's jurisdiction, customs, taxation and VAT? Gibraltar, as we know, belongs to the United Kingdom. It has its own Parliament, but it belongs to the United Kingdom, which is coming out of the European Union. Gibraltar is currently having a special tax regime autonomously within Europe, outside Europe. While Great Britain was in the European Union, Gibraltar was inside, except for this. I say this because it will also concern Europeans now with the Brexit process. We must also know that there are too many countries within Europe. I'll read to her for the Minutes. They are the main four, which have brought the tax disaster within Europe. It is Denmark, France, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. These are inextricably linked to the countries that are offshore and are New Caledonia, French Polynesia, French South, Wali and Futuna, Saint Pierre and Miquelon, Saint Bartholomew, Aruba, Bonaire, Curaçao, Saba, Saint Efstath, Saint Martin (Dutch), Anguilla, the Cayman Islands, the Falkland Islands, which has also been the trouble in Argentina, southern Georgia, Montserrat and many others. Whoever's got a 50-year-old on him - I'm going to give you another revelation, you know, you just never seen it - where X, W, etc. Underneath it says 50 euros and next door has two boxes. Nobody's ever noticed. These boxes are the countries that are outside the European Union with their own tax regimes. They belong to the European Union. They were printed in the 50th for reasons they are not present. But the Reunion, these islands and some parts of Madagascar still belong to the European Union. What do I mean? This directive is of great importance if anyone starts to deal with it seriously and Europe is not going to be serious about it at the moment. They are thus made in Europe - so we have built them and worked them out - and I have made them twenty-five years abroad, almost half of them abroad - where, for example, one country taxes dividends on shareholders, another country does not tax domestic loans from a company to a company. The mother company of the Netherlands lends the daughter company of Greece. The interest the daughter pays to the company for the country comes out as an exit, while for the other country it is income and none of it is taxed. Don't get me into any trouble. But the whole system is set up so that someone can buy shares or do intragroup transactions without paying any tax, because that's the system. They'll try to change it. Let's hope sometime they change it. As far as the amendments are concerned, there are several of them - I read them almost all, I had time and now - very important. I'll make a couple of remarks. As far as the Ministry of Tourism is concerned, we cannot now discuss the thermal baths and where they must be done. In the part concerning the Congregation of Music, I have disagreed. We can't give tax information every year. We gave them 250 million. Yes, we'll say again, as we say in the War Industry. But we cannot have borrowed them, given them 250 million euros in the House, not to have seen a balance sheet, to have a president of the one who put it in 250 million and not to be able to make profits and to have an update, and to give him information again. So what did we give them 250 million? It's not for voices at this hour, but honestly at some point we have to say to this side of the House. Let's go to the TIAD. I don't care where he goes. 250 million is paid by the Greek taxpayer. They're old-age guarantees of all banks. They've ejected. We paid for it. Well, we paid for it. It's over. We've given, if I'm not mistaken, third time tax information and insurance. So what are they doing? They keep losing money? They don't have information? What about the money we gave them, what did they do with it? Here's the question, Mr. Kutsuko. I know you've been asking yourself the question, too. I've had it for many years, because it's been set up at PASOK. He was set up, I mean, like an Foundation, and he was rightly set up. But don't keep paying for it. Honestly, I won't now say it's the last time. But I'd like it to be the last. Next time, we'll have a problem. Management check must be carried out. They cannot be informed while we gave them 250 million. It can't be done. It doesn't make any sense. For "Stavros Niarchos" it makes sense. For the Ottawas, the amendment is fine. For tourist properties, the electronic system wants a lot of work to bring it into line with both European directives and legislation. It's a very difficult thing. We don't have anything to say about HISBIA. I hope that there will not be another natural disaster in Greece and I hope, as I have seen the fires in Laconia, that work will be done. We did a great study and one day Mrs Papanatsiou was kind enough to answer a timely question from a SYRIZA colleague from the law. There is a lot of work to be done so that the earthquakes affected, and also the fires, have a favorable treatment so that they can get through both Laconia and Lesvos and Kos. The next issue was the Ministry of National Defence. They are issues of fiscal awareness, but what has to do with aircraft of maritime cooperation are very important amendments and must be voted in favour. I have nothing more to add. I'll wait for the last one I didn't read. Is it true that there has been another amendment to ELSTAT? We haven't seen her. We haven't read it. I cannot say anything about this amendment unless I read it. The rest of us are voting in favour, as we have said, together with all the articles in this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u85	Thank you. Mr. Katsiantonis, special speaker from the Centroon Association, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here to discuss a multi-brand plan brought by the government under the pretext of incorporating into the Greek legal order of the relevant Community directive. And from a close point of view it brings other provisions, most of which relate to stepping-by-step and step-by-step settlements. Of course, in order to ash the eyes of the world, it also sets certain provisions which I would call them 'tree', as appropriate, in order to suit a small portion of professionals. This is the case, for example, with the provisions relating to the reduction of VAT on lesbian flowers and animal feedingstuffs, the protection of the incompatibility of the accounts held in general paying institutions, the non-implementation of a trade branch fee, the tax relief of the earthquake affected by Lesbos - where I believe that this will ultimately apply to Kos and Rhodes -, the country's compliance with the relevant decision of the European Court of Justice to no longer tax non-profit legal persons for the acquisition of property because of death or donation, the specialisation of the powers, responsibilities and obligations of the Capital Market Commission, the concessions of public property, in order to achieve public-interest objectives, the simplification of the procedure for the acceptance of small-value donations in favour of the public sector, the recognition of the pre-service of officials offering employment to bodies in the Member States - members of the European Union, the enlargement of the officials concerned to the single wage bill, such as political staff of the PSFSFSF, in relation to the cost of public sector, to the payment costs of government agencies and the payment and of government agencies’strepreparency compensation. Finally, in the penalties provided for, in the event of discrepancies from the budgetary objectives for general government bodies. But we have many other provisions in the second part of the bill, which, as I said before, are in the mood, gentlemen of the government, to help you children in the public sector, and of course in this way to impose the state budget. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] We start with the additional EUR 270,000 per year that the state funds will be charged by the unexpected and unsubstantiated reconstitution of the Economic Expert Council. You are trying to convince us that the decommissioned and forgotten HR will contribute to the country's economic strategy, evaluate alternative economic policy proposals, analyse its budgetary and macroeconomic outcome and shape the country's economic policy in the European Union. Truly, the financial staff-paid consultants don't do this job? Why now all of a sudden does the HR have to do it? The answer is obviously very simple: why do you want to help people in administrative positions, defining the board of directors for the ERC. In addition, you want to hire fifteen people to the recommended economic research unit as scientific staff, the twelve of whom will come with three-year contracts, all three with the provisions of mobility. Why don't you ask everyone for the human resources of public administration? And, of course, the shells don't end here, since you want three more on the pay of postgraduate students for a practical exercise for eighteen months. All of this, while the rule of law, as you say you are, has cut the benefits, sent the pensions to the tartars and has literally smashed the free professionals. The need for you to settle as many as you can, is seen from the ERC operating costs forecast, which relate to subscriptions from scientific magazines to examples of economic forecasts and databases, so that you can share the pie of the state available to the few of your choice. It is rather a little less than EUR 272 000 and my personal opinion is that these amounts will be multiplied. At the same wavelengths and increased costs to cover the costs of legal support from ELSTAT’s president and staff by a lawyer of their choice. But does ELSTAT not employ lawyers to defend their right and independence? Of course, the expenditure in this case, like the charge in question, cannot be foreseen. One of the same, and with the return to service, literally 'by the window', for pensioners, former civil servants of the Independent Public Income Authority. For them, you bring self-determination - not least too much - back to active action through their participation, together with the active staff of the authority, in projects providing technical assistance to third countries. But you do not tell us how many you will need, their reward and what they will do and who will help. Even if we assume that you are doing all of this in good intention and bringing this provision, why do you not think of a little commercial, labour and development? Instead of retired people of the principle of seeking out some of the thousands of unemployed young people with the barbaric degrees and postgraduate degrees, you could enrich their knowledge close to active staff, because that would simply help them to join the labour market, through such an important imminent imminent step, to provide technical assistance to third countries. And since the funds for the implementation of technical assistance are made available by the European Union, you could also reduce unemployment without imposing the state on either EUR 1. At the same wavelengths and the attempted increase in the remuneration of the commander of the Independent Public Income Authority. You want to give him a bonus not after the targets he has to meet, on the basis of his contract of employment, but after the targets have been achieved on a case-by-case basis. I would like it to be clarified in this regard whether the fees for this commander as they will eventually arise will exceed those for the President of the Ice Bay, unless it is also intended to increase this remuneration through you. Another scandalous provision is this, which concerns the success bonus for the special liquidator of a public undertaking. Really, why should he get bonus because he just did his job? Should we, then, give bonuses to all civil servants why are they merely carrying out their duties? And why is there an exemption specifically for the special liquidation of the “Metal Industry Epirus S.A.”, whose power begins on 1 January 2017? What makes it necessary for the retroactive entry into force of this company in liquidation? You all understand now, I think, because at first I said that there are very suspicious many of these provisions. Either way, we do not have enough to discover wicked intentions in every bill that you bring by pretext or without. And of course - by accident! - to mislead public opinion you also referred to the "Success story" about the country's exit to the markets, but that, when you come to power, you will change everything. Finally, not only has nothing changed, but on the contrary, you have brought the country into the economic and social collapse. Your Minister of Finance himself, Mr. Varoufakis, resigns and calls on you to apologise to the previous government. Indeed, this in the country's political life, I do not think it has even been done by politicians who have shifted to other political spaces at times. I would very much like to know, like all the Greek people, what Mr Varoufakis is finally hiding in his drawer. Obviously, it's time to know the truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u87	The reason for this is that the Deputy Minister of State, Mr Kokalis, has the floor to present an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President. I am referring to Amendment No 1158 and Amendment No 189. The amendments tabled deal with specific and important issues in the five paragraphs. The first paragraph seeks to repay those due to geotechnics and veterinarians from 2015-2016 in the performance of their duties, namely for the controls they had carried out in regional units and due to the inability of regional units to repay them. In the second paragraph, there is a derogation, but this derogation from the legal procedure provided for by Law No.4325/2015 is provided for due to a specific and high public interest, such as the lawnmower, which is very important in the cultivation of olives. What does that paragraph say? That in order to achieve the programme of tactics quickly and without delay, it can be entrusted to the temporary partners until the competitions have been completed and the contracts in question are signed. The fourth paragraph also solves the question of granting agricultural land to specific areas, which have been given to professional farmers and unemployed people such as Lake Carla, Cleidio and Agulinica for years. The concession shall be extended by a decision of the regional authority concerned. The amendment gives the authority to the regional director until 31 October 2017. I should like to stress at this point that since 2018 the design has been that these areas are also given to cooperative schemes and producer groups through the ODIOIO organisation of the Ministry of Rural Development. Finally, Article 37 of L.4384/2016 is replaced and it is fully clear what it means, what a producer group can and does. It now has legal capacity and is a company and civil law with the limitations of the European regulation. It may therefore participate and move flexibly in any operational programme. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u89	The Foreign Minister, Mrs Papanatsiou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u90	I shall also refer to the amendments made by the Ministry of Finance. The amendment with a general number 1154 and a special 185 is given until 29-12-2017 tax and insurance information to the Athens Concert Hall, in order to facilitate the collection of the State grant or other amounts due by third parties, so that the payroll of its employees can be paid, as well as the service of its contractual obligations. It is understood that the regulation does not involve the exemption of the agency from the obligation to comply with its tax and insurance obligations. The amendment, with a general number 1156 and a special 187, makes it possible to grant a building to the Independent Authority of Public Revenue, in exchange for thirty years, to house the fiscal and customs academy. Let's go to the amendment with a general number of 1157 and a special number of 188. Article 6 of Law No.4384/2016 on agricultural cooperatives provided for the possibility to participate in agricultural cooperatives of other agricultural cooperatives or legal persons as members of them by one vote. That is to say, we have in a cooperative, apart from natural persons, to be members of other cooperatives with a vote or a legal person, if it is not a cooperative. The proposed provision of Law No.4308/2014 extends the right of agricultural cooperatives to issue annual clearance from the sales of agricultural products and to agricultural cooperatives or legal persons among the most of the farmers of natural persons. The amendment under number 1159 and a special 190 is a follow-up to the previous one and concerns the regulation of VAT and the authors in the first article. The second is VAT and reversal of performance. In the first article, therefore, the provision laying down the obligations of the authorizing officers of agricultural cooperatives against VAT on agricultural cooperatives and their legal members, more than farmers of natural persons, is amended. In other words, it extends to legal persons. The second article is a new article on VAT. It is established for reasons of combating fraud and tax evasion and is an incorporation of Article 199a of the VAT Directive. The purpose is to transfer the burden of VAT return to the retailer of mobile phones, tablets, laptops and consoles and electronic toys. This will lead to the elimination of a great deal of VAT fraud with missing traders, importers of the above products, which is taking greater proportions every day. The amendment under general number 1160 and specific 191 relates to ETAD S.A... A proposed regulation referred to in paragraph 1 shall be granted by the ETA to the General Secretariat of the Ministry of Finance, the management and administration of public spaces, outside the transaction of the Agialou and the beach areas for their rational management and exploitation, without prejudice to the rights of the ‘ETAD S.A.’. The proposed arrangement referred to in paragraph 2 shall stipulate that any dues shall be collected in accordance with the provisions of the CED, thereby ensuring that its revenue is directly recovered. The amendment with a general number 1163 and a specialist 193 are granted, in exchange, public immovable property to public and private entities in order to cover their housing and operating needs, with a view to saving and managing and maintaining them. These are in the Municipality of Pogonios, Ioannina. It is granted to cover housing needs and services in the Municipality of Pogonios the ownership of the public property with ABK 422. The property with ABK 2057 is granted to the Municipality of Makkomi to cover housing needs and services of the Municipality of Makkomi. The Ministry of Interior is also granted the ownership of the public property with ABK 2054 to cover housing needs of the Police Department of Amphiclia Elias. It is also granted, without consideration, in full ownership to the Ministry of Health, the 2/3 percentage indivisible to the public property with ABK 3035 of the Athens General Land Recording Book with all its components and annexes. It is considered exclusively for housing the primary health care structure, a civil-type health centre of the A'US Attica. The Minister for Health shall decide to register the acceptance of the registration of the property in the relevant Land register or mortgage register. The amendment, with a general number 1164 and a special 194, establishes a Coordinating Committee for the revision of objective real estate values and the use of the Real Estate Bank database. This is a commitment that we have until the end of the year to adjust the objective values, to adapt them on the basis of the trade values that exist and to make a revision of the objective values with objective coordination of the actions needed to implement a modern, comprehensive information system for mass real estate values. And as far as possible to bring their market prices closer together, this committee is recommended by the Ministry of Finance. It is a permanent Commission which will make changes to the objective values and over time, it is not a committee which has an expiry date. It is also attempting to exploit the Real Estate Bank database, established in the integrated digital Property and National Heritage Agency information system, in order to ensure the continuously collected data under it, to form the basis for a modern digital property assessment system. In other words, we are creating an infrastructure which will not be stopped until 31 December for changing the objective values with commercial values, but over a period of time will be able to change with any changes that are taking place. With Amendment 1165 and a special 195, the first article exempts the money or any kind of prizes offered through a public-paying scheme for lucky people, who are trading using card-payers or other electronic means of payment. This creates an additional incentive for the consumer to become aware of the use of electronic means of payment as the main means of payment in transactions. Furthermore, the objective of combating tax evasion is being strengthened. We all remember that in the law on "plastic money" there was a sum of 12 million a year, which we share with the lottery, coming in a few days and the ministerial decision. And in the next period, from September onwards, the draws will be started, after the banks also send us the data, so that we can move forward. The second article replaces the term ‘consumer’ with the words ‘problem that acts for reasons not covered by its commercial, business or professional activity’ in order to harmonise the scope of application with the other provisions of Law 4446/2016 and to avoid any confusion in the scope of the law both with the persons liable for compliance and with the administrative control mechanisms. Also, in the third article, there is a direct refund of the income tax of legal persons and of the VAT of natural and legal persons for claims amounting to EUR 10,000 per beneficiary and per tax, with regard to outstanding audit cases, namely cases for which a temporary tax correction has not been issued. It provides for the possibility to sample these refunds at a later date. In this way we are trying to unblock too much money for a refund, so that citizens or traders can get the refund they are entitled to from the public, as well as to release workers, who are currently controlling these tax refunds, so that they can deal with more assumptions and dismiss larger amounts, i.e. as many dues as possible to go to their beneficiaries. The fourth article allows professional farmers to submit amending declarations from 1-8-2017 to 31-10-2017 without the imposition of penalties for submission of a time-limit. Any tax due shall be paid in up to two instalments, i.e. until the last working day of September and November, depending on the time when the declaration is made. During that period, the difficulties arising will also be addressed as a result of the fact that for the first time the process of completing and cross-checking the electronic records of the professional farmers, including young farmers, who started rural activities in 2016 by the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, was initiated in order to further the relevant departments of the Independent Public Revenue Authority in order to supplement codes 037 and 038 of the Declaration. Here we come to solve a problem that has been caused, because it is the first time to apply the tax to the main industrial farmers, with difficulties that were experienced by the relevant Ministry of Rural Development, so that its record can cover all cases. The fifth article allows taxpayers to pay HIS tax in five instalments from 29-9-2017 to 31-1-2018. It is necessary to ensure the necessary time to issue HICP declarations, following the extension of the deadline for the submission of income tax declarations up to 21-7-2017, as it is necessary to clear income tax declarations for the provision of reductions and exemptions from HICP to those who are entitled to them. The sixth article simulates the taxation of the transfer of securities to a non-organised market with it on a regulated market. Therefore, any gains from a transfer of securities traded on a non-organised market and acquired by natural persons are taxed by virtue of the provisions on goodwill, since natural persons gain a profit from such transfers as investors and not as business operators. From there on, I would like to say about some other amendments that are parliamentary amendments, at present. We welcome the two amendments tabled by Mr Theocharis. We do not know, however, whether we will be able to accept them today, in the sense that we need to look at some details. As regards the amendment tabled by Mr Koutsoukos, which he had tabled last time, I would like to say that the decision of the municipal council of the Municipality of Ilida accepted the decision of the Real Estate Company, ETAD S.A., on the topic: ‘Removal of part of area 22.590 sq.m. ABK 5 public property N.Ilias (Kamping Kouroutas) in the Municipality of Ilis” and the decision of the board of directors of ETAD S.A., taken at its 522/14-6-17 meeting, decided to rent part of an area of twenty-two thousand five hundred square meters. the camps of Kuruta in the Municipality of Ilida. The rental term of the camp ends on 31-10-2017 and as far as the financial consideration is concerned, the same conditions will apply in 2016. So the municipality will pay 20% of gross revenue, with a minimum guaranteed rent of EUR 13,400, to be paid up to 15-11-2017. Also, the EBRD decided that its technical service, in cooperation with the Municipality of Helis, will draw up a study on the repair and maintenance of the campsite, to be submitted to EBRD in the first quarter of September for approval and, at the same time, will prepare the programming contract of cooperation "ETAD" and the Municipality of Helis in terms of cleanliness, green maintenance and support for the operation of the campsite. Here, in other words, we have a synergy of ETAD with the Municipality of Elis, which we think will bring the best results, since this municipality was unable to bring the campsite in the form that we would like, in order to have the best revenue for the region.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u91	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u92	For Mount Athos?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u93	I haven't seen the last ones yet. When I see them, I'll answer them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u94	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u95	Here you go, Mr. Balaura.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u96	In Amendment No 1169/199, which seeks to restore the principle of equal treatment and equal treatment for men and women in cases where the Solidarity Fund pays them one-off benefits, which will not be counted on income from work or pensions, as is the case with the public funds. This amendment also has the consent of many other Members from other parties, and I think the Minister should accept it. Mr President, as regards the amendment already mentioned by the State Secretary, 1164/94 on the utilization of the real estate value database, I think that there is an omission and I very much ask you to see it. It should be added to the members of the Standing Committee and the Ministry of Infrastructure. I would also say - what I am going to say now - that the participants, i.e. the Minister of Finance, etc., must be designated - I do not know if what I am going to say is legally sound - with their substitutes. Sometimes we have difficulties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u97	Thank you. Mr. Antoniou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the bill we are debating today, we are dealing at first instance with the harmonisation of Greek legislation in the provisions of the respective European Union, concerning the automatic exchange of information at the level of the tax authorities of the Member States of the European Union. The aim of the directive is to address specific practices of aggressive tax planning for large multinational enterprises and to define such groups with a turnover of more than EUR 750 million. The fight against tax evasion and tax fraud in the modernised international economic environment requires an integrated system for managing information, in terms of structure, price policies for intra-group transactions and their internal transactions within and outside the European Union. The aim is to increase the transparency of financial transactions, to prevent artificial transfer of significant sources of income and profits to environments with tax advantages, and to prevent the loss of tax revenue in the countries where profits are made. Therefore, the necessity and the advisability of harmonising our country's legislation, in relation to this issue, is particularly important and urgent. The second part of the bill introduces important and positive regulations which touch citizens and their everyday lives. This was also recognised and noted at the hearing of the bodies, in the relevant procedure prior to the committee. Accelerating the most important provisions, I quote: First of all, the transfer of important categories of products from the highest to the lowest rate. I am referring to the ostensible flowers, compound feedingstuffs, which mainly concerns our livestock, in which 70% of the cost of production relates to feed. Also, the expansion of the protection of deposits up to EUR 1.250 for the payments account at electronic money institutions established in Greece. expressly define the cases of professional establishments, which are not considered as branches for the enforcement of the trade fee. It is foreseen that the full discharge from HNPH for the years 2017 and 2018 for the buildings located in the affected areas of the June earthquake in Lesvos and also from what the Minister informed us, is also discharge for the affected areas from the earthquake in Kos. The circle of beneficiaries of non-profit legal persons taxed at the favourable tax rate of 0.5% on the cause of the death of property is widened. The proposed provision also applies to the acquisition of property as a cause of donation. In the context of the management of public property, public property is provided that the maintenance and management of public property has until now been borne by the State to entities in the wider public sector, services, OTAs, regions, to cover housing, operational, economic and other needs. There is immediate acceptance of a donation to the public services of up to EUR 40,000, without the signature or approval of the Minister of Finance. The majority of donations concern mobiles or services, such as for example fuels in Greek Police patrols, the Port Body, etc. or consumables in refugee structures. The fine system is elected for one million and fifty thousand uninsured vehicles which have been found after the cross-checks have been crossed. Exemption from e-infringements for special cases was provided and an electronic paradox comparable to cubics and the type of vehicle was established between a hundred and a hundred and fifty euros. In addition, the same legislative proposal provides for the refund of the paid electronic offences already issued and paid by the owners of the vehicles. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to the amendments which have been a little noise at the beginning of the sitting. Most of these amendments are indeed of an urgent and imperative nature in terms of their regulation and justify the urgency nature of the matter as a result of the forthcoming suspension of the parliamentary procedure in August. They also generally regulate day-to-day issues of certain categories of taxpayers. Fast, I would say that the problem is solved by the problems created by the pre-paid codes 037 and 038 as regards who are mostly agricultural workers. The issue with vehicle owners, which were destroyed or dissolved before 2004 and which are deleted from the vehicle registration register is resolved. Exempted from tax any kind of prizes offered to those who make card or electronic means of payment. A committee is hereby set up to review the objective values of property. It regulates the payment of payments due to geotechnic officials, in particular the AMRLs, who carried out plant health checks on our agricultural products which were to be exported. This was an unfinished business that was difficult to work, which was off-time plus weekends. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent years we have had a number of issues and events that have established international confidence in the Greek economy. The closure of the second assessment, the successful trial exit on the markets, the improvement of the indicators of the Greek economy allow for the gradual return of the Greek economy to normality, as much as attempts are made to degrade these positive events by Opposition, contrary to the positive comments of the international press and institutional political and economic factors. We're not celebrating or reassuring. We know that we still have a road and difficulties ahead of us, but it is now a fact that the very difficult things have left behind and we can be more optimistic about the future. We will also fight for the solutions to the difficult problems that Mr Varoufakis has inherited from your historic period, ladies and gentlemen, and you will deal with what he wrote and what Mr Varoufakis wrote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that twelve speakers have been registered. According to the calculation of the time that has taken place, we can conclude the meeting this evening at around 22.00 p.m. after the rapporteurs, the special speakers, the registered speakers, those of Parliament's representatives and the Minister, have completed their speech. We will continue tomorrow with the seconds of the rapporteurs and the special speakers, with a time-consciousness, so that they may also be placed on the amendments. As far as you can see, there's a time for everyone to be placed. They could be placed tomorrow in comfort of time and the parties that left. As far as I'm concerned, there's consent to what I said. Mr Stavros has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, we are now discussing a draft law by the Ministry of Finance on the adaptation of Greek legislation to a European directive. For once - and it is the government's regular tactics in the bills - many needless, important, photographic provisions and amendments are incorporated. In this draft law only ten of the fifty two articles and none of the twenty amendments relate to the core of the bill. Among the forty-two unrelated articles and some amendments - most of them overdue - there are certain provisions regulating issues mainly of public wage operators. And it's not the only bill. All the bills in the last two weeks have increased spending. And in most cases the General Accounting Office of the State cannot assess the increase in expenditure. New allowances are given. Existing allowances are being increased. Overtime is given. Commitments shall be made without the relevant decisions. New posts are being set up. Payments shall only be made by decision of a competent Minister. The effect ultimately is to increase public wages when social benefits expenditure, as shown in the latest ELSTAT report, is being reduced. It turns out so, once again, that the left gaze is just a myth. Ladies and gentlemen, in the draft law, however, there are some positive provisions. Some people recently correct government errors, such as the increase in VAT on agricultural products. Some others are based in laws, the content of which the current government majority as opposition had voted against. In particular, for example, it is adopted and extended the scope of the mandatory exchange of information between Member States, which was adopted by Law 4170/2013 and which SYRIZA, as opposition, had voted against. The institutional framework for the properties, donations and heritage for the public is enriched, which was shaped by Law 4182/2013, which also by SYRIZA, as opposition, had voted against. It supports - and this is positive - the institutional framework for budgetary discipline, which was shaped by Law 4270/2014, which also by SYRIZA - rapporteur at that time was the Minister of Finance - who had voted against. The Register of Financial Auditors, established by Law 4151/2013, which also SYRIZA, rapporteur for the Minister of Finance, as opposition, has voted against. Therefore, it is recalled that the previous government in the period 2012-2014 – and the current government continues to do so and is positive – has made significant contributions to strengthening fiscal consolidation, adjustment and discipline. For example, I mention updating and improving the budgetary control system, strengthening the selective mechanisms for managing public funds, energising mechanisms for monitoring and enforcing sanctions on ECIs and private-law legal persons. Furthermore, the establishment of regular, valid information on the state budget implementation course, the implementation of procedures for repayment of government debts due, the establishment of internal audit departments across all ministries and decentralised administrations of the country, the further institutional armoring of the fight against fraud, the upgrading of the role of the State Budget Office in Parliament and the establishment of an independent Financial Council. In conclusion, four laws that SYRIZA had voted against as an office opposition, today adopts them, strengthens them, enriches them. It turns out, once again, that illusions, delusions and lies have close legs, as the government's triumphs of exiting the markets after three years and since in the medium term - these two and a half years - the country was loaded with two unpleasant memoirs and the citizens with EUR 14.5 billion new austerity measures due to its inability and its irresponsibility. But did the government achieve its goal? First, it raised a total of EUR 3 billion, as well as in April 2014. Only then the whole amount concerned a new issue, and today new money is about 1.4 billion euros. That's a big difference. Secondly, 6.5 billion euros were offered when three times the amount was offered in April 2014. Third - and more so, all of them - the redemption of the 2014 bond at a price well above the nominal value, provided the new interest rate, thus increasing the actual borrowing cost, which was finally formed at the levels of 2014. Fourthly, the interest rate on the issue is much higher than the cost at which the country is borrowing through loan instalments. It is recalled that the government, due to the delay in completing the assessment, has not raised around EUR 15 billion provided by the Memorandum on the loan contract at a rate of about 1%. And now it raises 3 billion at a rate of about 4.6%. Fifthly, the rate of the issue is much higher than that justifying the international economic environment and the current cost of borrowing other European countries. The interest rate differences, Greece's yield differences from other countries - which you want us to take, Portugal, Cyprus, Italy, Germany - have been widened compared to 2014, since the Greek bonds did not follow Europeans in reducing yields. Sixth, if there was a positive assessment by the institutions of debt sustainability and the country had joined the quantitative relaxation programme, the conditions would be better. Unfortunately, however, this was not done on the sole responsibility of the government. In conclusion, it is good that the country came out on the market and restored some normality. In no case, however, as I have shown with specific arguments, with particular elements, the publication is not for festivals, especially when the statements of the current leadership of the Ministry of Finance, then, in 2014, it is being persecuted. I'm tabling them for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In any case, the exit into the markets must be a step in a structured strategy, must be done safely and over time and must not be an opportunityal move for communication and party reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, too. Mr. Michus from Golden Dawn has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President. The proposed regulation aims to strengthen the flowers industry by reducing the VAT rate. Re-establish the reduced rate of VAT on seed, sunflower or sunflower seed. Finally, the reduced rate of VAT is reintroduced in foods manufactured for animals falling within tariff heading 2309. This article restores an injustice to three categories of agri-food production. Indeed, the growers of stray plants were wrong, because VAT was at 24%, and this naturally also burdened the consumer. The high cultivation costs were deterrent to any export oriented effort in this positive industry. How can we compete with the Netherlands that VAT is not more than 10%? It exports throughout Europe once Greece has been offered for its land, sun, water, everything. It has not taken as an example any government in Israel, which has turned the desert into a fertile land, how this state has helped farmers and farmers and to what production it has achieved so far. The reintroduction of the reduced VAT rate is moving in a right direction. Before, however, the government has to deal with the problems of agricultural production as a whole. When the tax measures, which impose, kneel down farmers, the insurance burdens worsen their already precarious economic situation, a positive provision, but a fragmentary one, is not enough to strengthen the agricultural sector and encourage Greek citizens to deal with agricultural production. In 2015 the current government increased the tax advance from 27.5% to 55% - even retrospectively - for the incomes of 2014, and dropped the first scissors in the oil premium. In 2016, insurance contributions will increase, as the rate of 7% today, will go to 10%. The rate of the advance calculation and the rate of the income tax will be reintroduced. In 2017 a new increase in the rate of income tax, a new increase in the advance, while the oil subsidy is finished. Shipowners don't pay, they don't have VAT. Why should farmers and livestock farmers have? We're talking about primary production. You had election flagged the primary production. It doesn't have to be. Greece has everything. The earth exists, it's ready. Farmers are in the mood for work. Why don't you let them work? Why are you taxing them? Yeah, that's a start, but that's not all. You have reached a point where you can tax the straw, the male, the pit, which, in your view, the straw and the pit is food b and c' category, is a supplement, is for the poor, for the pensioners, to feed their animals. Did you take them to 24%? Does anyone in here have in mind how these people live in the villages, how do they feed their animals? Do you know that in some villages farmers and farmers are holding Thermopylae in border villages? In villages below a thousand inhabitants from where they were at OGA, you took them to TEBE. Why? How will you help these people? You're talking about competition. How are we even competing with countries such as Germany, where the price for the farmer to sow a potato acre has 150 euros and here is 600 to 700 euros? How are we going to compete with Spain or Italy, where VAT - and it is only one tax - is from 6% to 8%? If you do not do some things, such as continuing some exemptions, helping farmers, drop taxes, and if you do not give money to move the farmer and the farmer, if you do not take back these measures that you have taken so far, they will not stand on their feet. Not only will they give up and abandon their jobs, but they will abandon their villages and the villages will go into the hands of others. Unless this is the purpose of your government, but also of the previous ones. Because it is not just your government's fault for everything that has been done. It's the previous ones' fault. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, too. Independent MEP George - Dimitrios Karras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] In all the bills, in order to approach them, I am concerned with looking for philosophy, feasibility and result. On the first part of the bill we are debating today, of course there is no particular comment, because it relates to compulsory automatic exchange of information between the Member States of the European Union to avoid tax evasion and tax evasion. I'm not commenting on it. In the second part, however, I have identified a number of provisions, which have troubled me not only for sloppyness, but also for lack of coordination in government policy, as is manifested. I have therefore stood on three points. The first point concerns Article 26, where we have public property transfers to serve local municipalities. When it comes to a property for a police station, no one's gonna see. When it comes to a real estate - such as the Cooperative of Ierapetra - warehouses for the concentration of agricultural production and here no one will see. However, I am concerned with a paragraph of the same article, in Article 26, which reads “the eastern part of the island of Giali is transferred to strengthen the economics of the Municipality of Nisyros”. I happen to know what's about the Glass. Mr. Maniatou, you know that, too. Giali is a small volcanic island - indeed administratively belongs to the Municipality of Nisyros - and it is one of the three parts of Greece that we produce strategic minerals. What are these? The pumice, perlite and possalan. They're rare raw materials for cement production. So I say 'Some sort of feasibility will have the order'. I am going to the explanatory statement and there is a silence on why it is being granted. I then go to the audience, I watch it, and I see that there is no discussion at all. Some titles from the Ottoman era are referred to as a steep and naive one, errors are reported for the time when the Dodecanese were attached to the Greek state, to the Greek territory. Only one observation has been made that the municipality's finances will be strengthened if the mine is transferred there. I mean something. I am not opposed to these transfers. However, I am opposed to the way that is being done by the Ministry of Finance unilaterally, which requests, obviously locally, and are poorly satisfied, without considering the substance. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] Glass is the mineral island that supplies the world cement industry. The transfer to the municipality will not help environmentally. I have to say: you forgot that it is a preached archaeological site, that it is a preached landscape of particular natural beauty, and it is protected in many ways. You accepted a request and you would have another solution, if you wanted, Mr Ministers. What would be the solution? The solution would be the payroll right that has the public, and the rent for the municipality to take it. No objections! But I do not agree with the way you do the transfer. Only in Kimolo still has corresponding minerals in Greece - if you want to know the government - and these again volcanoes, because they come from the Volcano of Milos. Here they come from the volcanoes of Nisyros and Glass. So you left the following: How will environmental conditions be controlled? It's my first question. Today, with the leases of these mines granted by the State, contractual conditions are also the environmental, contractual conditions are the terms of the technical operating studies. How will this be controlled, when you have no agreement with the Ministry of the Environment, when you have no agreement with the strategy? There's a bill in consultation, Undersecretary, about mineral wealth. Didn't you expect to see it to connect it? Tomorrow you'll be in trouble. I tell you that this is about maintaining the country's production base. We don't have much to suggest. We've got little. We have mineral wealth, we have tourism and some subtitious agricultural production. We have managed to deport the industry from Greek economic life. Please take a good look at this. I have nothing with the municipality, I have nothing with the residents there. However, because these strengthen economic growth, the maintenance of competitiveness in Greece's minerals, you will have problems. I would like to say this first of all and forgive me for repeating it again. I say it selfishly, if you like, because I have forty years of experience in this area and I can judge. This provision should be amended. Allow public revenue to the municipality as a reward. The municipality does not have any technical services, it has nothing - because tomorrow you will have other requests from other regions, and it needs a central government planning for mineral wealth. There is no need for fragmentary and individual actions. It's going to be a failure to the city. Do you know why tomorrow? Because the municipality will be operating to gain economic benefits and environmental conditions cannot be met. I'll remind you of something. Glass is the island that brought the opiate. You know it was the first mineral that became the first tools in the stone age that brought culture. Let's not destroy it with indifferent exploitation. Let's go down. I said I think that's enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u105	Listen to Mr. Karras in what he says, Minister. He's absolutely right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u106	Please don't interrupt. Keep going, Mr. Carras.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u107	Let's go to the next thing. Environmental issues again. I see a particular indifference to the environment in this bill. What do I see? Articles 53 and 54. What are you telling us about this? You say to us: "The municipalities did not see to it that they had environmental conditions to operate the thermal sources for health tourism. What can we do? They didn't make it. Let them function two more years." In Article 53 you say to us: "For tourist accommodations, private individuals did not receive environmental conditions. Let them function.’ I have proposed the solution to the House two years ago. Let the notion of approvals for environmental studies - Mr Manatis's law provides for it to be accepted - the standard environmental commitments. You will, in consultation with the Ministry of the Environment, be able to obtain environmental conditions which are of direct application, which will have no need for approval and which will be able to monitor their implementation and the protection of the environment. Finally, I would like to make a comment on the duplication of legislation. I'm going to Article 43. It says in Article 43 that any provision on a non-wage benefit which is applicable shall be repealed. In particular, it gives an example of the abolition of programmes for (private) insurance contracts and programmes for medical care provided to staff of certain services. You know what, Minister of Finance? Please watch this. Yesterday a provision was passed in the Law of the Ministry of Interior providing insurance contracts and non-wage benefits to the staff of the EBRD. The government doesn't want to hear it. I don't care. I ask the question: today you are abolishing them. Is the abolition also the case for what this House was doing in full detail on a proposal from the Government yesterday? Anyway, decide what you want. Do you want them to have non-waged benefits? Do you want to have separate insurance contracts or do you want them to have? If you want them to have, do you want them to have some selective, so that they can respond to the ruling party or not? I don't expect an answer because I understand you don't. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr. Carras. Mr. Christos Beyalas has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr President. In plenary today we are discussing the ratification of a convention, which I consider to be important, from all sides, for all parties. The ratification of the Convention will vote on the automatic exchange of information on tax evasion issues, which I think all countries need. Of course, unfortunately, these sanctions and those decisions of the people who are the most powerful in the world come with a relative slowdown. But it's good. From there, however, the bill has a number of other provisions that correct distorting situations, serve social groups, help people and our fellow citizens. For example, I mention the reduction in VAT on agricultural supplies, which were not, by mistake, included in the previous law, the trade charge on branches which are up to thirty days old, but also in tourist accommodation which constitute the same operating licence. We have an important provision for uncertainties to stop this carcinoma now. Of course, we have another amendment - the Minister has not yet come to support it, but it has been distributed to us - where there is the definitive deletion of vehicles whose signs had been delivered before March 2004. They were still still alive, but they were still in the taxpayers and appeared in the TAXIS, and so there is a distorting situation in the Vehicle Register. Apart from that, however, I would like to mention some amendments, such as adjusting the objective values and setting up a committee. What I would like to point out, Minister and Minister, is that here in the new objective values, which will come out on the basis of trade, it should be pointed out to the committee that the last year in which real value is included, the phenomenon of too many contracts has been presented to the seller's agreement with the buyer and that a very low price has been declared, just to have the coverage of the "substantially". So we have huge differences between the objective values, the reality that trade is and does not appear anywhere and the price shown in the contract. Because we see that the amendment states that the committee will receive information from the transfers of contracts. I would like to point out to you - it is through the real situation that currently prevails - that the real values, the trade values with those appearing in the contracts have a huge discrepancy downwards. We have this very positive amendment, which creates a tax refund of up to EUR 10,000 on income taxes to legal persons, but also on VAT, in all categories of professionals. It is a very good amendment to stop this Golgotha of people fighting and fighting and exporting, whether at different rates of VAT or because of exports, having a refund of EUR 3 000 to 10,000, from being able to take it, enter into regular control, create huge problems and make the liquidity of these businesses difficult. But here I would like to point out the following. Without any control, yes, but simply cross-checking the invoices, especially when it comes to export refunds. I think it's necessary. This can be done on the same day, within five minutes, by the official responsible for crossing the tariffs, so that the effects of the VAT refunds on farmers under the special scheme do not appear. We had phenomena where five acres of apples in Larissa, in their third year of production, were worth 300,000 euros, for which they were asking for VAT refunds. He was once mentioned in the publications, then he was 11% and asked for 33,000 return of a farmer with five acres of apples. These are the points on the amendments. A lot of things have been reported. We have seen that opposition speakers, because they do not have anything special to say about the bill, refer to issues relating to our country's day-to-day exit on the markets. We heard here that it was a failed way out, that it wasn't right. They agree to the exit to the markets. But it wasn't - let's say - the right thing to do. All of this has nothing to do with what is in the international press - I read yesterday all the international press - who is not friendly to either the SYRIZA ideological platform or the SYRIZA government. However, all international instruments refer to a positive sign. They say it was a success of Tsipras and Tsakalotos and there are specific publications about it. They refer to the great and apt leap made by Greece and let not have taken the QE. They mention all these flattering remarks. They point out, of course, that we have to be here. The country's strategic exit plan on the markets and therefore exit the memoranda for August 2018 should be followed out. It is in the same line as the statements that the Minister of Finance, Euclid Tsakalotos, made the day before yesterday, as the bids were closed. Of course, let someone see the interview of the Minister of Government Samaras, Mr. Gika Hardouvelis. He says it was a very successful exit. In other words, it has a completely different view of what you are presenting to us at the moment. But that's what it's said for a reason. Because, with the way out on the market, when the evaluation is closed, your entire opposition line has collapsed, your entire opposition account has collapsed. That's why you're mixing us together. Colleagues of counterpopulation, find a new account now. Sit down, think and find a new opposition goal and a new opposition account. What you're doing doesn't lead anywhere. I would also like to make a point to close, Mr President. We have heard here from Mr Stavoura that this bill gives benefits. But one thing is certain. Seal allowance doesn't give, let's make it clear. Because we've heard of it these days too. It does not, however, give any turnout allowance granted by your own governments. Did we forget? You were receiving early attendance allowances! That's not what they're giving. What workers have the right to take, who fight every day for the public interest, is being given the right to receive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u110	Before going to the next speaker, we will give the floor to the Deputy Minister for the Interior, Mr Toska, to support the one amendment. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will support the amendment under general number 1153, and specific 184. Since August last year, with the resolution of No 4412 on public procurement, we have entered a new phase of extensive and in parallel arrangements for the reorganisation of the country's financial system, with the abolition of the financial control service and the transfer of control powers to the Directorates-General of the ministries' financial services. Throughout the public sector there have been particular difficulties in the security bodies supervised by us, in which we need to take into account the wide spread of their services throughout the territory and the need to respond rapidly to any requirements of their operational role. There were similar difficulties, of course, with the audit services, which often exaggerated with zeal sometimes rejected some of the cost of flea jumping, which is what the speech says. In order not to create the wrong impression that these arrhythmias have been caused over the days of the current government, I would clarify that we have also had public accountancy expenditure since 2014. So we now come to close this pointless gap in the final analysis of our national economy by channelling the money in the state budget to cover the outstanding debts that exist - and still exist - in the form of frozen appropriations. So we settle some of the costs related to materials and first-demand supplies, supplies that are absolutely essential, such as fuels, spare parts, car tyres, cleaning and feeding of foreign temporary detainees, etc. From there on, there is a joint ministerial decision of the Ministries of Economy and Finance, which describes a framework in which the relevant departments will be initiated and which will begin to apply practically from 9 September this year. It must be pointed out, of course, that independent authorities, such as the National Independent Public Procurement Authority, have sometimes insisted on different forms, which are difficult, if not impossible, to implement. For example, in the name of central planning and central responsibility, they insist that central competitive procedures be carried out, and there are cases where they are practically impossible to implement. For example, there are no distribution companies covering the distribution network throughout Greece. They do not come to such competitions and there are such problems. It is true that with our amendment we have created a suffocating margin of adaptation to the Greek Police and the Fire Corps. We really need to adopt an accreditation act literally yesterday, while the Joint Ministerial Decision stipulates that the start of implementation will take place on 9 September 2017. I therefore think, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that you will not object to the expiry of the deadline set in the amendment on 9 September, so that we can be properly aligned. That is a minimal correction that I would like to propose at the point and that is all. I repeat that we can unnecessarily accept it, so that I too do not complain that we treat our subordinates hard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u112	Good. Thank you, Mr. Toska. Mr Toska, give the amendment to be distributed to Members. Now it is Mrs Buddhism who has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u113	Thank you very much, Mr President. Today we have seen dangerous weather patterns. It has rained many amendments, and as we watch the ministers parade and develop them, and above all by following the Deputy Minister of State, Mrs Papanatsiou, to say them without taking a breath, we cannot think of the heroic age of SYRIZA - ANEL, when in the slightest way in here the bad mess was done. Mr. Lafazanis stood up and talked about coups, juntas with parliamentary cloaks. Then you had Mr. Lafazanis here, a parliamentary representative, to say all this, on the channels you had Mr. Varoufakis. Now you're both together, tomorrow you might be together again. They're familiar with this. As it approaches the end of July and along with it the Greeks are faced with the end date of payment of their robbery tax obligations, we hear, ladies and gentlemen, government officials headed by the Prime Minister himself, disgusting the most outrageous arguments and the most foolish excuses. What do Mr. Tsipras tell us these days, giving interviews across and out of the border from morning to night? "I made mistakes, my choices regarding the choice of persons were wrong. I underestimated international connections. I overestimated quantitative relaxation. I'm a liar, but I'm not a thief." Is there another bigger confession of failure? When do we say a leader, a leader, is a loser? We don't say it when he doesn't know how to choose partners, he doesn't know how to assess the international environment, he does wrong estimates, does he, when politics is his art predict? What does Mr. Tsipras tell us after all these days? "Oh, there is no question, because then I went back to elections and the people rewarded my mistakes and failures. In other words, I am a loser - Mr Tsipras says - in all things, but I know the art well of mocking and deceiving the people." Besides, the performances given here by Mr Lafazanis and the others of SYRIZA in the heroic time were a performance, in fact, because they created with this vibrant and the momentum that the people here will come to change everything, to tear up the dalalals at noon, as you were saying. He also says Mr. Tsipras that in the January 2015 elections his people ordered him to negotiate hard and that after having made them salads and reached the country on the verge of destruction, the people, when asked again in September 2015, said to him "bravo that you failed in everything, but continued, you are very nice". The truth, of course, is that the people did not give you the January 2015 mandate to negotiate hard. He instructed you to smash the memorial dala at noon, to abolish the ENPIA, to burden the dauli and to dance all the enemies and the markets, to throw the IMF out and the Troika and September when you went to the elections, ladies and gentlemen, you did not tell them what you are going to do. You were telling them again about a parallel program. You didn't tell them about the over-periods of a hundred years, nor that you would cut them off, nor that you would give all their loans and the services and unserved and unserved to the disaster corals in foreign funs. So the people did not ratify in September what Mr Tsipras says now. Because if you say that the people have told them that you will cut off the subsidiary and come running and voted for you, then you underestimate the intelligence of the Greek people and the punishment for this is always hard. What are you telling us lately? That we had to jump out of our joys, because we got out of the excessive deficit process and why we got out of the market. I'm sorry, what excessive deficit procedure could we have remained, when we have surpluses and when we've been in memoranda all these years? Because the excessive deficit procedure, to understand and to hear, is punishable. What other punishment measures, in other words, would have imposed on us to celebrate now that we were not punished any more? As far as the markets are concerned, we now have the new account. "Our exit is better," SYRIZA says. Whose way out is better. The present Minister here, Mr. Tsakalotos, who said, when Greece came to markets in 2014, that the majority of Greek society is not going to see any good, because the harsh reality is another and that they are communication actions and things like that, obviously...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u114	It's all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u115	It's all right. So now that you're on the market, the Greek people are very happy, they're not paying taxes, they're not tortured, they don't run looking for the FBI, they don't know anything, they're all happy and they're out on the markets and they're celebrated. So your way out, you say it's better. That's what you're saying. In fact, because you can't say that completely, what do you say? The second exit of the Samararo Venizelos was bad, not the first. Why was the second exit, which Mr Drasakis says, bad and failed? Why? It came out well at 3.5% interest rate, within an international turmoil and Greece proved then that in a short period of time it can come out and go back to markets and keep going. Although we had taken two banks and you took all the capital with you, five banks, Merrill Lynch and one and the other, to get out on the markets. But you're saying that they didn't enter the bonds, that is, half the hedge funds. More hedge funds have entered, now on your own way out, than on the exit of the SamaroVenizelos. I would also like to say to my colleague, who said that the international press applauds them and so on: Mr Colleague, when we went to the markets in 2014, the international press did again. He said the current is turning for Greece, investors are torn for Greek bonds, but then you didn't read it, you had other things in your mind. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, just a moment to finish my sentence, please. Then, look at you, the main point at the moment is whether Greece is on a road that can actually get out of the comitology. With all these memorials, however, with the tax obligations and all that you are bringing to the fore, this cannot be a prospect for the country. Therefore, all that remains is propaganda and the communication handling of this story about purchases, which are good today and favour you and then they were bad and you called them "the master dog of the system". You remember that, I believe, Mr Chakalote. You said they were international crooks, that they were the pussy dog of the system, and Mr. Tsipras said his government would turn its backs to the markets and throw international houses into garbage. That's what Mr. Tsipras said. You're just lying. You're not delusional, but you're a permanent deception and you're constantly lying. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u116	But you didn't say anything about the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u117	Anything I want to say from the Step of the House. You know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u118	Before giving the floor to Mrs Megalo-Economics, Mr Chakalotos asked for the floor on an amendment that has already been distributed to you. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u120	How much time do you want, Minister? Three minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u121	No, a little more. I want to answer - because they have asked a lot of questions - about getting out on the market. So I want five, six minutes for that and three minutes for the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u122	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr President. I have to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that before the last two weeks I have had a great deal of concern for my friend, Yiannis Varoufakis. In other words, I was left with the impression that both anti-population parties and the newspapers considered that they were responsible for the destruction of Greece, considered that it was because Greece did not come to the euro in the last two years, that there must be a major complaint and a thorough examination of its time. I understand that the words of Varoufakis are taken care of by the New Democracy and the PASOK, almost by religious reverence and that the newspapers, which blamed him, publish all of his words. No percentages would have been so reproduced, no matter whether it was in a book that came out three months ago. Considers PASOK that Mr Varoufakis says very well and that the Prime Minister should apologise to both Mr Samaras and Mr Stournara for what he said before leaving the market. It's changed the climate for my friend. So I don't have to worry or be sad anymore. That's a burden that's gone away from me. I think we should seriously discuss the exit to the markets. I have heard terrible arguments in the House today that go beyond economic science. It is not dominating to compare - nor have I done it nor have I given too much weight - the exit today with the exit of 2014. Nor can we seriously discuss the price that is now on the market for Portugal or Ireland. These are not serious comparisons. I expect more responsible and more serious interventions in this House. You cannot compare, for example, Greece, which is in a programme, with countries which are not in a programme. You cannot compare Greece, which had PSI - not to enter the debate again if the PSI was good or bad, but it created a great turbulence on the markets and shredded their trust - with countries that had no haircuts on private bonds. You can't make that comparison and you're not serious when you make that comparison. But that's not the big deal either. The question is not whether our exit is better than 2014, or whether it is better than Portugal or Ireland and Cyprus can do now. This should not be compared. The exit into the markets is an instrument, it's not a purpose. The comparison must be made in this respect: why we have this instrument and what we want to achieve. We also need to compare global strategies. The strategy of the New Democracy and PASOK was as follows, that debt is viable. It is sustainable, because we are committed to very high growth and to very high primary surpluses, which make it sustainable. We close our eyes to the fact that no one really believed you would do 4,5% and 5% nor have these growth rates, we do not ask for anything about the debt, we say it is sustainable and then we go out on the markets. Then one says: "But why do they come out on the market when they know that after a few months they will come out at a higher rate and will not be able to come back?" As it happened. Because a few months after you went out on the markets, the interest rate was higher, and now, right now, the interest rate we have is lower.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u124	So, how old was it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u125	It was over 5%, Mr. Swimming. You don't know the finances.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u126	It was lower. It was 3.5%.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u127	It's a lot you don't know. But especially in economics, you have a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u128	No, you have a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u129	In a very wide range you have a problem. I don't want to exclude financials from your ignorance, but I think finances are special. It was over 5%.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u130	Don't lie.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u131	Please don't interrupt, Mrs. Vulture.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u132	So what's the point and the difference? It is that our exit is part of a comprehensive strategy. This overall strategy considers that exit is part of a strategy to get out of the market and get out of the memorandum. It is a strategy that incorporates the debt solution given in June 2017, a few months ago, which will be more clarification in a few months, which will allow us to go back to a serious market interest and to be able to reduce surveillance. The strategy to be judged is that. The Greek people will judge our strategy in 2019, when we got out of the market, for what purpose, within what programme and how we managed to get out of the memorandum with your strategy that failed by realities. Because if it had not failed and you would have closed your evaluation and convinced the middle ground to vote for the President of the Republic...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u133	The middle space is voting?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u134	...and you'd have the success story you sold out. None of this happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u135	After you came.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u136	Mr President, will we speak at the same time as Mrs Vulture? How much longer are we going to talk about at the same time?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u137	No, it's not allowed by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u138	But you must correct it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u139	Mrs. Vulture, please don't interrupt. The Bureau is making an honest effort, Mr Tsakaloto. What can we do now? It is 'violent'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u140	You can do more, Mr President. I have great confidence in you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u141	We won't fight or fight. Mr. Vulture, please don't interfere. Continue your position, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u142	I conclude by saying that our way out is not better, neither because it has a lower interest rate nor because it has brought less money. All this is air, it's political foam. In the end, the Greek people will not remember either our exit or your exit. The Greek people will remember whether there was a strategy once where the exit on the market was a weapon aimed at getting out of the memorandum. He will remember whether this would pave the way for the return of confidence in the economy and investment and if, with this return to growth, all the Greek people and the layers that you have always had on the margins and you will continue to have them on the margins. That's it. Everything else is for the TVs, for one, two, three days, and then they'll be forgotten. The fact is, however, that we have a strategy that we incorporate into the markets is important and we will be judged on it. I shall return to the amendments, Mr President. It is the first amendment by Mr Katsiki to the general number 1152 and to the number 183, which says that to be the head of the JEPs you must also be an official of the JEPs. I think it's not something that needs a lot of discussion. There is also the amendment under the general number 1155 and a special number 186, which refers to the Cultural Foundation 'Stavros Niarchos' and in particular to the parking lot, where there is a price to be paid. Obviously, the amendment controls and regulates that this money will go for the purpose of the Foundation and not for something else and how these should be regulated. Finally, it is Amendment No 1174 and specific No 203, which has four provisions. The first concerns credit institutions, where systemic banks are allowed to exchange preference shares either with money or with bonds. There has been a very great deal of work on this issue so that it does not lose public and equal gain from this exchange if it is in bonds with a interest rate of more than 6%, so there will also be public revenue. It's the provision for the public holding company, the supreme as we call it. If you remember, the superstition has an administrative structure, which is the Board of Governors of the superstition, and there are the sub-funds. One is the TFS, the EBRD and the other is for public enterprises, the EBRD, where and there will be protection for the members of the Board of Directors who have and the Board of Directors of the entire surplus fund. It also has some changes in the dates, because they can't appoint the Board of Directors of the SAD. There is also the third provision for the replacement of the Commander of the ADP. It was not clear in the law and it is now laid down how the commander is to be replaced when he is gone. Fourthly, there are issues of cleaning public service buildings. In the interests of legitimate expectations and equivalency, this provision stipulates that expenditure which has not been cleared up until the adoption of the 167/17 Act of the Court of Auditors, or which has not been issued, and which relates to public service cleaning contracts, should also be cleared. I've got some legislative improvements, too. Most are corrections and minor verbal changes, which I can table. According to one, as was discussed in the committees, fines are doubled in multinational business groups. Another, following the earthquake in Kos, has the same facility as in Lesvos, and thirdly, there are corrections to Article 47 for the JRC, which have been made for reasons of clearer representation of responsibilities. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Legislative improvements will be distributed to this House. Give the floor to Mrs. Big Housekeeper.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u144	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u145	Why, Mr. Maniots? Do you want to make an intervention in the Minister's words?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u146	Yes, Mr. President. An intervention on the part of the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u147	I'll give you three minutes, and the lady will follow after that. Here you go, Mr. Maniot.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u148	I must admit that I do not know how to describe Mr Tsakalotou's speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u149	Very good!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u150	Very good? Very good?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u151	Clear!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u152	I am therefore very bad at Mr Tsipras's 'ALPHA' yesterday, and I am very pleased that you have made it easier for me. Do you know what you said, Minister? That your Prime Minister, the Prime Minister who appointed you in this position, is air. That's what you said. And that the job...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u153	Stop! Once speak seriously.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u154	Don't interrupt and don't get upset.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u155	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u156	Don't get upset. You will hear it all, as we have heard you, Mr Chakalote.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u157	You're from a serious party. You're serious!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u158	Minister, let Mr. Maniotis finish and if you want to answer later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u159	Mr President, you will not take into account the noise caused by Mr Tsakalotos in the time that you have given me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u160	Don't talk about the five minutes. That's not worth it either to you or to your party.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u161	Now no one's listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u162	This lack lowers the political level so low. She's never been that low.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u163	Mr. Chakatte, I will not allow you to interrupt me. I would ask you, Mr President, to start over, because one minute was Mr Tsakalotou's.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u164	It's your time, don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u165	So Mr. Chakalotos told us that the country's Prime Minister is air...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u166	Where did I say that? Where did I say the Prime Minister was air?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u167	Mr. Chakalato, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u168	And because that's just...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u169	You dare tell me? Get it back now!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u170	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u171	In the Minutes... find out how you described the country's exit yesterday...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u172	Aren't you ashamed to say that? How far down can you get, Mr. Maniots?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u173	Minister, you facilitate the process. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u174	So you told us that the country's exit was neither better nor worse than Samara's exit and you told us that it was air.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u175	The papers will write you anyway. Whatever you say, all the newspapers will write you, you don't have to be ridiculous.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u176	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u177	I will not allow you to be above my voice with the noise you cause. I listened with gratitude. You have a debt, a double debt, to listen to the Opposition with double reverence.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u178	Not when you put words in my mouth that I didn't say.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u179	Mr President, I am coming back and I would ask you to start the timeline again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u180	Did I say that Mr. Tsipras is air?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u181	Mr. Chakalato, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u182	Because I'm going to resuscitate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u183	Did I?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u184	Mr. Chakalato, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u185	Minister, don't get upset.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u186	Did I say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u187	Mr. Secretary of Finance, I see a great turbulence.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u188	Did I?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u189	When I'm done, you can take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u190	Minister, please. If you wish after the completion of Mr Manatis' speech, I will give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u191	Yeah, but you heard my word. Did I say about Mr. Tsipras?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u192	But now I'm sorry. You're gonna put me in the game of your pseudo-resistance, too? Will you make me take a seat? Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u193	Mr. Maniac wants to be on TV!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u194	Let Mr. Maniotis finish and you have every right to ask for the floor, to explain, if you wish, to intervene, to object. Please. Here you are, Mr. Maniots, shortened. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u195	I'd like to start the timer again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u196	Time again! You'll have him the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u197	So I'm starting to report on the Minutes of the House. Mr. Tsakalotos told us this a few minutes ago: "Don't worry about either the interest rate or whether it was a good or bad way out of the market. It was neither better nor worse than the exit of 2014. All this..." Mr Chakalotos told us, "...is air, which people will not remember after a while." So, comparing Mr Tsakalotou's current position with the words of Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, I understand that there is a huge difference in approach to this major economic and national issue between the Prime Minister of the country and the Minister of Finance. I am continuing, because I do not understand how Mr Chakalotos, Professor of Finance, tells us that it was not even worse or better when all the economists have published assessments that the country's exit was more precise than the 2014 exit, if anyone takes into account the corresponding spread of Germany. In simple terms, the comparison measure is not the absolute interest rates, but, as Mr Venizelos said, the comparison measure is how far above or below the reference country, which is Germany, you borrowed in 2014 and you borrowed in 2017. And, unfortunately, for the government and Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras, our country a few days ago was borrowed far more expensive than it had been borrowed proportionally in 2014. But the Minister, Mr Chakalotos, has said something else, that it is not worth the effort to deal with whether the PSA was good or bad. Minister, have you not signed two budgets, where you recognize the great benefit of the PSA and you, as a representative of the Hellenic Republic, have not defended the PSA in international courts, and that is why all third-party appeals have been cancelled? So I ask you directly: do you think the PSA was right, benefited the Greek economy or was it wrong? Third point. Mr Tsakalotos has sent a letter to the International Monetary Fund to participate in the financing. So I say straight away: everything happened to get the IMF in, to be regarded as serving the country's debt, has the Greek people been forced to undergo a taxing raid of 4,9 billion in order to win - what, Mr President? - either the introduction to quantitative relaxation or the participation of the International Monetary Fund or, at the end, the international factor in accepting that debt is worthwhile. Mr. Finance Minister, did the International Monetary Fund say or did it not say just a few days ago that Greece's debt is not helpful? Answer, then, what exactly did you charge the Greek people, and against what consideration you charged us with the negotiation of your own government of the EUR 15 billion that the Greek people will pay for. And you must also tell us about Article 45 of the bill you have brought us, which humiliates the Hellenic Republic, which obliges the Greek State to pay the costs of Mr Georgios. Shouldn't you put them out of your pocket? Aren't you the ones who led to all these persecutions and now, with the tail on the legs, have you put the Greek people to pay the costs of Mr. George's court? Is there no shame in that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u198	Mr. Maniatou, please finish!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u199	I'm done. But there's nothing else to be ashamed of. Mr President, as Mr Koutsoukos has done earlier, I will testify for the Minutes, as Mr Huliarakis has done, to Mr Juliarakis' decision that the bond issued will be under English law. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the abovementioned decision, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr. Chakalote, current Minister of Finance and then a member of the opposition, did you or did you not have a question to Mr. Venizelos, telling him that issuing bonds in English law constitutes an assignment of national sovereignty? Because you had tabled the question at the time, you have two options today: Or you will apologise to Mr Venizelos and you will confess that the English law was then and now it was, not desirable but the only solution, or you will get your signature back from the bond you issued. I conclude, Mr President, by saying just one sentence: because the Greek people have suffered a great deal and since in recent years we have been seeing efforts of the institutional, constitutional, state coup with incredible and unsatisfactory interventions in Greek justice, which have brought the lawyers, the Association of Judges and Prosecutors, and the President of the Council of State, to have exceeded the limits that can be accepted, the Government and the Minister must answer us another question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u200	Jesus Christ! That's enough!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u201	If that's possible!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u202	Mr. Maniatis, will you report on all the matter now? That will obviously be the last question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u203	The then head of the ministry was assistant to Mr. Varoufakis. When Mr. Tsipras was mandated to negotiate the future of the country in the international living room and led us to a third and fourth memorandum and to a loss of 100 billion euros, not to be paid by Mr. Tsakalotos and Mr. Tsipras, but future generations, then Mr. Varoufakis was an asset of the government, and now you are being dealt with ironically and in a sceptic manner and wishing him to sell many copies of his book?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u204	Mr President, when will it finally end?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u205	If that is the case, then accept the proposal of the Democratic Incorporation for a committee of inquiry which will investigate the facts before you and also the facts of your own governments. Otherwise, you have no right to speak to the Greek people and claim to be protecting the public interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u206	Minister, you obviously want the floor, but I would ask you to be as brief as you can.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u207	I will be very brief, Mr President. I'm going to surprise you how brief I'm going to be. I would like to apologise to the honourable Member and to the House for accuseing him of doing all this to have a quarter on television. The truth is, he made a pre-speaking speech to become Head of the Democratic Partnership! And I see no reason to answer anything he said, because the House is not talking about such speeches. It is not for speeches by every candidate of PASOK and the Democratic Partnership. I hope it's for something more serious than that. Of course, I wish "good luck"!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u208	Ms. Big Economics, Independent MEP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the basis of the debate on the current bill is the adaptation to the Greek legislation of Directive 2016/881 of the European Union. This directive is a step further in the overall effort of the United Europe to tackle at last the major issue of tax evasion. And when we talk about tax evasion, it is certainly not every individual citizen who is likely to find limited methods of tax evasion or even tax evasion. The big thing is that multinational companies, which are very often active in several countries of the Union and have invented various mechanisms, so that they do not pay taxes which they account for in each European country. As you can see, such demonstrable multinational companies have all their supplies, all the necessary scientific staff and every means to hide incomes that they produce and display as supposedly created from elsewhere. This tactic, which has been perceived many times, leads not only to huge tax losses for European states which are not paid, but also to an unacceptable form of competition vis-à-vis other small and medium-sized enterprises that are strictly controlled and with very high fines in the event of tax evasion. In particular, I will refer to our country, where small and medium-sized enterprises are narrowed by the new high tax rates, together with other insurance obligations. Such tactics are outrageous, since they are another consuming factor for the average Greek business. It is therefore absolutely legitimate to make every effort to coordinate the Member States of the European Union through the automatic exchange of information for such enterprises, as well as the creation of a framework for obligations for multinational enterprises, such that it is more difficult to hide incomes. In modern electronic times, it is completely unreasonable that we should not make use of all possible information between the Member States so that we can step on or even significantly reduce the phenomenon of tax evasion. In relation to the other provisions of the bill, there are indeed some corrective actions by the Ministry of Finance. For example, only reasonable reason could be seen as the exemption from the trade fee for tourist accommodation operating in separate places but having a single licence. On the one hand, there is an extremely favourable increase in tourist arrivals. On the other hand, however, it is huge the tax latitude that companies who only work for so few months a year are accepting. In this context, the new regulation is rather moving in the right direction. Respectively, of course, it is entirely acceptable and self-evident to grant HNVY discharge for the earthquakes in Lesbos. We also expect the corresponding move for the inhabitants of Kos, who are being tested these days and our thoughts are with them. In relation to the completely unreasonable and unacceptable fines imposed on uninsured vehicles, the government and the ministry must first of all decide to recognise their mistake and abolish them. By reading the new scale of fines, I can only ask myself whether and whether this is still a fair one. On the one hand, there is a reasonable escalation depending on the vehicle cubics, but, as it is said, I do not think that the regulation setting a paradox of EUR 250 for all vehicles over 1,000 cubic metres is fully proportionate and fair again, since it is treated in the same way as a vehicle of 1,000 cubic cubic metres and one of 3 000 cubic cubics, which is the same paradox. However, I could not comment on the arrangement that the Treasury chose to bring to Article 45 in relation to ELSTAT and which I would call, at least, scandalous. And that's for two reasons. Firstly, because in itself it is unheard of. With retroactive effect, every president or employee of ELSTAT involved in a judicial fight will be paid by ELSTAT, as you say, immediately up to six times the minimum legal fees. And only in case of irrevocable conviction or irrevocable condemnation against the decision on the appeal, then it will only have to return money to the Greek State. Grab the egg and cut it! Of course, no one can ensure that the public can ever get money back. After that throat, how can the public get it? The scandal is, first of all, that the President or the staff member will, in fact, have to pay their own costs, and, indeed, all the gross legal fees will be paid. Also, for some unknown reason, the well-known and legal procedure is not respected. In other words, other citizens, if they are irrevocably acquitted, are entitled to claim direct compensation against the public or if they lose the Greek public action against them. Again they're condemned to their judicial expenditure. The President of ELSTAT, however, has another completely favourable regime. Unknown why. In fact, the explanation given in the explanatory statement that it is allegedly intended to ensure the full independence of ELSTAT's President and employees is not only convincing. And I ask you: if this claim is valid, why do you not extend the regulation to all the Presidents of the authorities? Since it applies to ELSTAT and it is an independent authority, why is it not for all the Presidents of the authorities? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr President, your tolerance. I regret the collapse of the Greek state. Besides, despite any doubts from the Scientific Office of the Parliament, I consider that the provision is being put forward to cover previous presidents and is therefore completely photographic and is about the President of ELSTAT, whose control is still controlled by Greek justice. Such tactics of public money are unacceptable at a time when you are constantly trying to convince the Greek people to be patient and to accept reductions even in their completely depleted pensions. I would also like to comment on two things on Amendment Nos 1132 and 177, which deal with tourist accommodation which have not provided the decision to approve environmental conditions for obtaining a special operating mark. It is therefore given - and quite rightly so - an extension to the licensing of these tourist businesses, even if they do not have the relevant decision. However, I would like to comment on this in the middle of the tourist season and not at the beginning, as the explanatory statement states. And that means that once again the last minute comes a "bumping" arrangement, while the professionals have been in uncertainty for so long. Finally, and a little outside the strict question of the bill, because I have received complaints from many professionals, because today is the last day to install the POSs, to let you know that the banks cannot respond to the huge volume of applications. So make sure that an extension is given, because the suffering is too great and the complaints too many of the free professionals and businesses who, unfortunately, see being put on a daily basis. Overall, the bill makes some corrective moves. But I cannot help but feel that the government is trying to justify the unjustified and, in the end, does not convince either of us. The Greek people are fully aware of what is happening and of the interests served by such regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u210	Before giving the floor to the next speaker, the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Juliarakis, asked for an amendment to be made. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to table an amendment with general number 1168 and a special number 198. The amendment amends Article 20 of Law 3832/2010 and allows the establishment of a Office of the President of the Hellenic Statistical Authority to assist his work in proportion to other independent authorities, such as the Independent Public Revenue Authority. I think it is a reasonable request for the proper functioning of the independent authority. Expenditure is up to EUR 260,000 per year and is covered by the budget of the independent authority. I would also like to place myself for two minutes on the issue of the exit of the Hellenic Republic on the capital markets in the week before us, on Tuesday. The truth is that the success of regaining access to international markets is judged first of all by whether there has been over-covering or not, for which the Hellenic Republic has come out to borrow. This is a special case. Greece did not have access for three years, as it did not have access for four years before the April 2014 exit. Overcovering, therefore, is a critical size of the exit success. And to be honest, both the April 2014 exit and that, with this criterion, must be judged successful. I would say that the exit especially on Monday 24 July is a success twice for two additional reasons. The first time it's out. It came out at the end of July, when many investment funds had already been withdrawn from the market for summer holidays. That's probably something I'm underestimating. But it is a reality. Secondly, and very importantly, it is a success twice because it followed the report of the International Monetary Fund last Thursday that characterised the Greek debt as unsustainable. The fact that, despite the fact that the Fund considers the debt unsustainable, international markets outweigh the version of the Greek bond, shows great confidence in the prospects and future of the Greek economy. A second success criterion - and I am ending with it - is whether the exit into the markets will be continuously or not. I also said in my previous position a few weeks ago in the House that exiting the markets is a process - even a long process - and not a moment for a country that has been removed from international markets, excluded from international markets for a long time. Here with certainty we can say that the April 2014 exit was a total failure, it had no follow-up. Whether this exit is successful will be judged next time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u212	In July he didn't come out?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u213	We are also deeply convinced that both the macroeconomic figures and the management of the Greek economy will allow this to happen before the end of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u214	In July he didn't come out again?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u215	We will give the floor to Mr. Shahinides from Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u216	Mr. President, just a minute!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u217	I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u218	We're 3 billion, you're 1.5 subsidized...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u219	Mr President, just a minute. I would like to ask something about the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u220	Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn requested the floor. You want something to ask?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u221	Yes, Mr President, I just want a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u222	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u223	I'll be clear, I won't lie. I would like to ask the Minister about the amendment he tabled concerning ELSTAT and the 250,000 that come out of time. Are there seven people if I'm not mistaken?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u224	They're nine people.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u225	I would like to ask whether this amendment has been passed through the Accounting Office of the State, because it will be a permanent sum, which will be paid again every year by the Greek people. If he has the approval of the General Accounting Office of the State, we'll be able to know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u226	Understood. Minister, do you want to answer now or do you want another time?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u227	I shall now reply, Mr President. Of course it is approved and, as I said, it is a budget credit for the independent authority, in line with the Independent Public Revenue Authority. It's nothing new.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u228	Good. Now Mr. Shahinides has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, Mr President. We have heard various reports today and in the bills of the past few days, but always selective, in relation to foreign press articles, that bistros have been written, whether in the days of today's government or in the days of their own governments. This proves one thing: that today and today, nothing has changed. They were all willing to sell out the public Greek property. In fact, we have heard that some investors are "slashing" to come to Greece. Unfortunately, the only people who are interested in investing in Greece today are the "dollars", the loan sharks. Greece has become attractive investment only for money laundering and opportunityal enrichment from the sale, as I mentioned, of the public property. He mentioned the IMF statement as to whether Greek debt is viable or not. But there was indeed something else: Greece will soon be subjected to Grexit. Unfortunately, however, you are not saying that. We have heard from the Minister of Economy that the parties should be placed in the Greek Parliament seriously. Why? Where does this come from and where does it come from? From the way the current government legislates, from what the current government legislates or because it applies legality? And we had the departure of two parties from the Greek Parliament. Obviously it did not have time to fall into their sense - from the large volume of amendments tabled - that an amendment has also been tabled, that of a general number 1154 and that of a specific number 185. Otherwise, I am sure that they would stay to vote on it and that is about the insurance and tax information of the Grand Musician. Because you all remember well in this Chamber that repeatedly when they have come, either as articles of draft laws or as amendments, exemptions of the Grand Music from debts or refinancing, you are indeed acting as a body. We certainly have no way of supporting this. Why should tax and insurance be given to an agency, an agency, which has repeatedly demonstrated that it cannot survive? And it is once again the Greek people who are sitting in their minds to pay the various "nouldouries" who have brought to art any ill idea or image that they have in mind. No, thank you, we won't! Our special speaker in Amendment No 1168, with special reference to the establishment of ELSTAT, has already been mentioned. Indeed, the money is EUR 260,000, which, if we divide them by the nine people who want to suit - its superiors - co-government is the sum of EUR 2,400. Indeed, Mr Ministers, why don't you join them in the single public wage and the amount is covered by the independent authority's appropriations? The wickedness to a certain point is legitimate, for it also states some intelligence. But the puppy hides incompetence, treachery. Why am I telling you this? Because in many of the amendments you have brought today you are including paragraphs which should, in fact, be voted on by all the wings. Unfortunately, however, as I have said, you are banning provisions and paragraphs from the evil. This is populism and culturalism for us. And I'll tell you exactly what you're saying. The amendment to the general number 1153, and a special number 184, was tabled by the Minister, Mr Toska, calling for the extension of certain problems to be solved for the normal supply of the security bodies with emergency materials, which should be provided with this amendment. However, they have put into this amendment and the feeding of illegal immigrants, so that we cannot as Golden Dawn vote in favour and say 'yes' to this amendment and go out to the Security Body and say: 'See? Those who say nationalists and patriots do not want the Security Body to function as they should." No, we'll prove that. Unfortunately for you, the Golden Dawn has eyes and ears everywhere. No matter how many amendments you bring to every bill, we have the possibility, although numerically we are few, to sit and dust them, because for us it is a function that we are doing and do not come here to try to get out as quickly as possible to get our baths done. You're in trouble, gentlemen, and you don't understand! Amendment No 1032 was also tabled and Amendment No 177 was included. This amendment concerns existing hotel facilities, for which fines have been imposed and the specific operating mark has been withdrawn. The fact that these undertakings were authorised does not mean that they should not carry out at regular intervals to renew the approval of environmental conditions, as there is a possibility that there has been a substantial change in the data on which the initial studies carried out on environmental conditions and impacts have been based. The order also comes, in fact, a little late, as in no case is what was mentioned before the previous Member that it is not at the beginning of the tourist season but at the middle. We will not consent to the degradation of the natural environment, to the risk of the safety of workers and residents, to the reward and impunity of those who do not comply with the procedures provided for, and to the illegality of prudent and consistent businessmen, by prompting them to inconsistencies and illegality. I mentioned before about the paragraphs which should be separate articles and separate amendments. You are doing the same in Amendment Nos 1158 and 189, including five articles, both of which are relevant to each other and related to the homicide. We should also be able to agree, of course, because we as Golden Dawn have proved that we can consent. We are not 'tangled', like others in this Chamber in ideologies and ideologies. In something that is serious and correct to the Greek citizen, we will always consent. It is therefore mentioned in the first paragraph of the amendment that the geotechnical staff of the ELGA should be compensated. We had voted in favour of the recruitment of seasonal staff. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] In conclusion, Mr President, this amendment concerns the payment of unpaid payments. Indeed, the pretext they have found for so long and made strikes and were not going to do the autopsies so that the farmers' losses could be recorded more quickly was the cost of their transfer. That's what they're covering. Here we could be positive as in the second and third paragraphs. The second paragraph refers to the possibility of entrusting the lawsuits to the temporary brokers until the conclusion of the tenders and the third paragraph of the extension of the arrangement for the procurement of tomato material. These were the positive articles, as I mentioned before. But come on, and the fourth paragraph, which refers to the decision to make use of property for the main occupation of farmers or unemployed by decision of the regional authority concerned. Here because I have a personal picture and perception, I will tell you exactly what is happening in these cases, at least something that is happening in the Pella Prefecture, and I have not heard any of the two SYRIZ Members raise it as a matter of this, nor was the Member of the former government who was also the Minister for Rural Development and who came from Pella. So what's going on in Pella? Just one such property that is in the total of seventeen rural pieces and three thousand acres - which was related to the ETHIAG, is now renamed to ELGO - is the National Institute for Agricultural Research. It had to do with genetic improvements, sparrowing, and it had buildings, agricultural machinery, coconuts. This has all been rented, rented, and the money that should be given has never been attributed to either the counter-region or the region of Central Macedonia. If this paragraph concerns such property, there is no case at all, the Golden Dawn becoming an accomplice to this crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u230	Mr. Syrgyrgos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u231	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in my time I have, I will deal with two articles in the bill, one of local interest, and I would like to close my position with a question to the opposition and at the same time with a hint. I would first like to highlight the usefulness of Article 15, by which the basis of favoured legal persons is expanded. As regards external legal persons outside the European Union, the reciprocity clause is also laid down to ensure this issue too. I am particularly pleased with the strengthening of the buildings of the Aegean University in Syra by adding a historic building. Local society - I am referring to Article 26 - and the Municipality of Ermoupolis Syros who have embraced the University of the Aegean since the first moment and are doing everything possible to upgrade it, are especially pleased at this initiative of the Ministry of Finance. The addition of this building, along with others that were granted or will be granted by ownership or in use for the needs of the Aegean University, is the culmination of the efforts of local society and comes at a crucial moment for it, i.e. at the time of the establishment of a Polytechnic School at the University of the Aegean, whose seat is worthy of Syra. In this way, there is a benefit to be gained from public property. I would like to say here, by way of reference to Article 26, that paragraphs 8, 9 and 10 set out the way and the condition that it lays down for transfers to all these legal persons. I therefore consider this particular article, in addition to the local interest, to be of interest for the benefit of the public and to ensure that the conditions I have set out are met. I would like to finish with one question. I am thinking above all of the opposition, which has and should have a creative role in what is being done. I would ask, therefore, if the opposition is thinking, some way of contributing to the normality of the market, the economy and everyday life, that is, to let people work, work in the middle of the summer and in the tourist season and not to engage in or terrorize party disputes. It is not disaster and the election of a fertile territory to foster economic development, nor to judge the exit into the markets. The government, each government, has its responsibilities in specific areas. Because we are calling for the economy, let me say that the opposition also has its responsibilities. So let the tons down, and let us all work creatively, in order to achieve the hope, that is, not the exit, it saves the markets well, but the exit from the comitology, the exit from the economic hardship and the progress of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u232	Thank you, Mr. Syrgos. Mrs Vayonakis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u233	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is - I believe - a good bill on the first part, aimed at transparency of intra-group routes, groups of multinational enterprises and through the commitment to automatic exchange of information between Member States, which is a tool to tackle tax evasion. I believe, however, that this is a good bill for the second part, which provides for arrangements on a number of issues relating to the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. The first part refers, as we have said, to the automatic exchange of information between the Member States on the taxation of groups of multinational enterprises and their obligation to provide annually and in each region where the amount of revenues is entrepreneurial, the profit of income tax, the paid and due income tax, the number of employees, equity, etc. The obligations of Greece and the other Member States for the mandatory exchange of information are described below. By voting for this directive too, all the directives relating to the European Union's action to deal with tax violations, which occur in the multinational business groups, are finalised and incorporated in Greek legislation. A single information exchange system is defined and uniform terms and systems are laid down. This is a very important issue, since it is well known that groups of multinational enterprises operating in different countries exploit different tax systems, but also because of intra-group transactions have the potential to engage in tax evasion, tax fraud, etc. So when we talk about the need to combat tax evasion, the issue we are discussing is crucial. I would also like to support, as Mr Diaras has done in the committee's debate, the need to increase fines for offenders as much as possible and not just in doubled, but in a multiplier manner. Let us not forget that we are bordering a country such as Bulgaria, where it is known that the tax rates are too low. In the second part, I consider it positive that VAT is naturally reduced and that positive regulation on plants, which had not been provided for in a previous law, and that the seeds are subject to this regulation and that the reduction in VAT is also extended to feed. Also positive is Article 11, which extends the duty-free scope to 1,250 euros and prepaid cards and to the electronic wallet. Also positive is the article on the relief of those affected in municipal units of the Municipality of Lesvos through the discharge of HNVIA for those who have suffered damage for the years 2017 and 2018. Also positive is Article 26 for which there has been a lot of discussion, where public property is granted, public property to entities according to the public body, i.e. services, OTAs, etc., that can be managed and maintained to cover their housing cultural production needs. It should be noted, however, that the ownership of these properties is withdrawn by a decision of the Minister of Finance, if they are not used within five years, for the purpose for which they were granted. It is also positive that Article 24, where the immediate acceptance of donations is possible by decision of the relevant Minister, since it concerns the provision of operational needs and services and the value of donations, is estimated not to exceed EUR 40,000. For this reason, and in each Ministry, a Donation Register is established. For example, this article facilitates the disposal of consumables in refugee structures, helps maintain public buildings and other activities. Also, this bill contains a number of articles that read them understands that simplified procedures are being applied. There are practical issues which need to be resolved in order to ensure that services - in introductory form - are 'driven faster' over the next period. For example, Article 29 provides for the award of public affairs to private individuals under conditions. The bill also solves a number of operational problems, mainly concerning the Ministry of Finance, but also economic issues relating to workers from other ministries. Generally the bill gives the image and shows mood, to solve a series of knots accumulated in the previous period. In conclusion, I think it is very positive, unlike several colleagues in the opposition who have spoken, that the Council of Economic Experts, with the ultimate aim of creating a collective, advisory and advisory body for the Ministry of Economic Affairs, sent by high-qualified staff, who, through a documented scientific analysis and in cooperation with internal and external bodies, will seek to shape the national positions of economic policy. This last one, I think, is a necessity which we all have to recognise. I want to say something about the amendments too. Minister, when you bring amendments that are in their overwhelming majority in a positive direction and are of an urgent nature, please bring them to the committee, so that we can also discuss them and communicate them. In conclusion, I would like to strongly support the amendment by the Ministry of Rural Development, particularly as regards the issues of fraud. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u234	Independent MEP Mr Theocharis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u235	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are today voting on the incorporation of Directive 881 on the automatic exchange of information and notes by multinational companies operating in multiple geographical areas. It is, of course, a very positive step, a job that has been done for years both in the OECD and in the European Union and in a small country such as our country, in a country where, with the changes that have been made and carried out with the various bills and the Memorandum Limitations, in essence - particularly in the retail sector - the turnover is concentrated on larger companies. These companies cannot be uncontrolled. To a large extent, the task of the tax administration will be to control these companies, although they are transferring their profits to different geographical areas, depending on where it suits them tax and is therefore a step that is necessary but not in itself capable. We need a plan of action, we need resources - human and technological - and that, of course, is a matter of urgency and perhaps it would be worth discussing, after a little time in the committee responsible, in the Committee on Economic Affairs, we should also call on the commander of the independent authority and the Minister of Finance, to see whether all these legislations are being used. Because there, finally, it is judged, if we are pushing these companies and the issues of accuracy, because we are talking about the money that is not enough in the world, but it is important how much the money that the citizen has is. So all these are tools, however, must be exploited. From there on, we have natural stitching of settlements, as a majority colleague, who arrange for various people, situations, allowances, working costs, overtime, new structures, new jobs, things that we are used to coming too quickly. This methodology should not normally exist, and it should certainly not be all these arrangements, not only of a Ministry but of multiple ministries, smack them all together and bring them together. I think that this kind of legislation is not a good practice, and we should as much as we can improve it. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to refer to Rule 45 in the case of Mr Georgios. In recent times the government has been in an open conflict with justice. The Prime Minister, just yesterday, said in an interview that 'justice is independent, but not uncontrolled'. So where is your sensitivity to such cases, like ELSTAT? We are listening to general and general considerations against justice, which in reality relate to issues of discrimination of powers. We hear wrong criticisms, such as Mr Polakis's criticism of the S.H.E.'s decision. I say this and I am the only MEP in this House - my language will go on to hair but I will keep saying it - that this decision is in favour of increasing the revenues of the Ministry of Finance and the independent authority. It helps the ministry raise more money. I hope that at some point the Greek people will understand it. I'll say it because it's the truth and it's the reality. As long as we're dealing with a decade-old, fifteen-year-old case, we won't get anything. If your neighbor owes you money 15 years ago, you don't have much hope. If it's money last year, you might get something. That is the simple ratio, which I hope the last citizen will understand. In this context, however, this general issue has often been wrong, always unconsciously criticised in the justice of the executive and that government, hiding its own problems, has been silent. He didn't say anything about George's case, who's afflicted with funny accusations. This procedure has been stopped twice, and three times it has been reopened and the government is here to pay its own costs. And all this, of course, is happening at the same time, as are the attacks of justice, which Mr Juliarakis has made in circular - last week if I am not mistaken - which reduces the salaries of judges. I don't know whether this is random, which is happening right now. They are of course commemorative obligations for special wages, but it is more likely that it will be convenient to strike justice, when we reduce them to the wages of the egg.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u236	That argument I didn't expect you to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u237	Now I'm going to say a few words about the other articles. You are also trying, with Article 31, to get a class on uninsured vehicles. I told you, and then that it was a process that we should probably call it the 'Functional Legislation'. I think we should get a new lesson in law. We have the 'Functional Legislation'. We are creating a problem from the outside, and then we come legislativeally to erase the fire, which we ourselves have stirred. It's happened on too many occasions. Many of the arrangements are such issues. It's not just that government, it's that government that does it. We cannot treat the citizen with such a sloppy attitude. I suggested that you should not send fines to everyone, only send where traffic charges are paid. This is substantiated by the fact that there is a vehicle and someone's running it, so a fine has to be sent. Send simple notice for the rest, have at least two months to settle the disorder and if it remains, then send the fines. In fact, now you are doing this, giving this time to settle matters. I would like to say a few words about the two amendments. The honourable Member has referred to them and I thank her very much for seeing them at least in the first place. I hope she'll accept them after all. He said he'd look at them again tomorrow. We must explain to the Greek people, if you want the stories of everyday madness, what these amendments are trying to save. One amendment we tabled together with four other Members - a total of five colleagues - is trying to settle the issue of those who come to make their statement late and do not owe any tax. They were retained by the company tax. The tax on leased services was paid by the company to the tax office. They're making the statement because it's zero, they thought they didn't have an obligation, and they actually did. They don't want to have this disorder. They now come to make the statement three, four, five years later and the tax tells them: "The money you received from the salary has been dropped and you have to pay it back again, i.e. twice to pay the tax." This is not a question of budget, it is a matter of simple justice, and the last citizen understands it. You cannot make a statement saying 10,000 euros income, 2,500 euros tax, minus 2,500 euros, because you have been retained. No, you can't say that, it's been three years, you've lost it, you've paid 2,500 euros. This, please, Minister, look at it. It needs to be corrected. It's a story of everyday madness. The second is the amendment on the equal treatment of insured persons who receive one-off, irrespective of the legal person granting the one. To date, the mutual assistance funds were part of the scale or considered income, and this created a distortion and a burden that other insured persons did not have. Again, this is not a budgetary issue, it is a question of justice. I close, ladies and gentlemen, because it is clear from what we heard from Mr Juliarakis in relation to the bond that there is a turn of government towards a positive signal, toward a success store, just as we had in April 2014 by Mr Samaras and his government. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] This success storage is dangerous and must be carefully monitored. Firstly, because it creates expectations of benefits to various groups, which would reasonably want to receive a dividend from this success story, and this will create issues and problems in the government, when it will have to show discipline, as Mr Juliarakis said, to take a rapid step forward, to close the evaluation in September, to go after the third assessment again on the markets, fourth fast in the anchors, etc. If this is not the case, then we will also have a problem with the increased pressures that the success story creates, they will put the same obstacles on you to succeed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u238	Mr. Theochari, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u239	I'm closing, Mr. President. It remains to be supported by the reality of this success story and that is the second issue, because the economy still has problems. The second is that the debt account assumes that in August 2018 we leave all the Memorandums and take the debt as a moment of August 2018. In fact, the debt will be taken with actions that will be by 2022, perhaps even more and thus stay in next debt memorials. So this account is wrong and it's wrong at the same time, that the country has lost a collective vision and citizens have lost their individual meaning, especially young people who can't make a shot of life, can't put their lives on tracks, can't dream. So we need a new vision and that's where the recovery will come from. This new vision can come only from new attitudes by new powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Mr. Theochari.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u241	Mr President, I would like to ask you to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u242	The Deputy Minister of Finance, George Juliarakis, has the floor. Mrs Arabatzi, the last speaker on the list, will then speak and then Mrs Arabatzi will be followed by Mr Kavallis, Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres. Here, Minister, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u243	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Theocharis, you have referred to cuts in the fees of the judges in my own circle recently and, indeed, as part of the plan to downgrade the work of justice. I'm not sure what circular you're talking about. What I can say is that the special salary of the judges was excluded from the changes in the other special wages. So there is not a single reference to this circular in court fees.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u244	Good, Minister. Mrs Fotini Arabatzis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u245	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is now continuing its familiar tactics, once again bringing the House to vote for a bill of'mini market' that it has all of it. And the cloak of the European directive calls on us to vote for forty-five articles from the fifty-one in the bill, since only nine are concerned with the specific Community directive. Regarding the compulsory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation, which has been incorporated into Greek law since 2013, I would simply recall that the relevant law brought and voted by the Government of New Democracy and, of course, by SYRIZA, had voted against it. You will tell me that in the face of the inconsistencies of SYRIZA and ANEL, in the face of what he promised and did not do and in the face of what he has said and, of course, did the opposite, this is a drop in the ocean. That's right! Only millions of such drops have been gathered and our country is now in the ocean of Mr. Tsipras' lies, who, with unprecedented cynicism confesss - even in a foreign newspaper - that "is a liar I can be but dishonest no" and two days after changing it with another lie of style "I didn't exactly say it, it was a loose conversation etc." It is perhaps the first time that in this country the criticism of counterpopulation, as hard as it is, seems to be more mild in relation to what the Prime Minister says about himself and his government and about what the former asset of the Greek economy reveals, which a little missed driving the economy and the country into total catastrophe, with the blessings of Prime Minister Tsipras. Of course, the problem is not whether Mr Varoufakis is selfish, narcissistic, foreign body, as you yourself call it today, his once-time companions, but if what creepy says is true. Because if it is, we will no longer talk about adults in the room, but about dangerous stalkers in Maximus' room who have for months been consciously criminalizing the country. Mr. Tsipras and SYRIZA, of course, strongly refuse the examination requested by the New Democracy for the first half of 2015. But as much as you are trying to counter the contrary, the truth will come to light and the next New Democracy government will also lead Mr Varoufakis and anyone else he needs, to the Committee of Inquiry of Parliament, to explain the damage they caused in the country. But, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL, however much as the Prime Minister says he made many mistakes and how he learned from them, the reality, unfortunately, shows other things. The reality admits that the mistake and the lie are in your political DNA. It is a mistake, of course, mixed with idealism and obsession. How else can anyone explain what happened yesterday, once again, in the House? Anti-powered to invade Parliament undisturbed, to shout slogans, to throw brochures, to be arrested by the police, and by order of Parliament, as all the reports say today, free of charge. And it was the first time that Ruvik, President of the House, was the first mistake of Mr Tsipras, who only didn't buy them coffee, as you will remember. But now what exactly happened? Mr Voutsis has indeed given a mandate to free the members of the Ruvikon, and if so why? It should be explained, and indeed direct and convincing, because, as you all know, a few hours later anarchists and anti-powered persons supported by this peculiar immunity have gone and broken all the cancellation machines at the power station in Moreos. What else does the Ruvik have to do to get arrests? The cost of the constant catastrophes in the center of Athens, on the subway, on the ESAP, will you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA pay it? Of course not. The citizens will pay for it, as they now pay two and a half years. Unfortunately, no matter what mistakes you make, you don't know. Instead, you keep doing bigger and worse. Speaking of errors and omissions, to come to this bill, I cannot comment on Article 10. One month after applying the reduced rate of VAT to farmland and animal feed - which you have adopted and welcomed on the New Democracy agenda - you are getting assimilated to correct the exotic injustices and omissions which, of course, have caused your own legislation and, of course, your lasting amateurisms. As if it did not reach two years of suffering in the world of the primary sector from the increase in their tax obligations, the evacuation of insurance contributions and, of course, the increase in the cost of production brought about by the increase in VAT from 13% to 24% with your own actions and policies, rushing to make up for the 18th of May 2017 - two years after stressing - you did half of your jobs. Even today, in this draft'sweep' bill, incorporate what you have forgotten, such as compound feedingstuffs, widely used in industry, sunflower seeds of a dynamic crop and oak flowers. But if you had the courage, ladies and gentlemen of the government, to vote in favour of the relevant amendment brought you ready by the New Democracy on May 18, 2017, or to consider a month earlier with the announcement of the New Democracy, which we called on you to correct these omissions, of course, you would have saved the case and the world of primary production the suffering and the lost time. I am also impressed by Article 48, by which in the Economic Experts Council - it says - new organic positions of scientific staff in the Economic Research and Analysis Unit as well as in the Operational Support Office. It would be good to explain how at a time when it is necessary to limit public spending, you are creating new organic positions. Evidently some of your executives forgot to be appointed, and today you found the way. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL, big mistakes, big lies and, unfortunately, no apologies. This is the tripartite part of your policy. You are the government of mistakes and lies, a government that, instead of learning, becomes worse every day and worse, a political mistake that, because of the circumstances, has offended the wave of power. But you are a mistake, which will soon be corrected by the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u246	The Parliamentary Representative of the Union for Central and Eastern Europe, Mr Kavalellas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u247	Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with something that I have stressed in the past few days on the bill in the committees. We have, of course, already pointed it out. Whenever the government brings a bill, it suddenly brings it up and has a plan, rather, to pass on other matters, other provisions in secret, which, ultimately, all lead to normalisation of situations and, ultimately, a burden on the state fund. It also abuses the tabling of amendments, amendments on amendments, and that is a bit of a loss of control. One cannot watch either thought or structure. If you tell me, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that there are also positive provisions on this bill, I will say yes. But you are using this stubborn tactic and practice to put one, two or three positive things in a dilemma to tell us at the end that these gentlemen are making a sterile opposition, while we are trying to introduce so indirectly, so masterly, these anti-grassroots measures so that the Greek taxpayers do not understand anything. I have already been placed before that such initiatives to the public benefit - and, of course, accepting the need to harmonise our country with the provisions of the relevant Community Directive 881/2016 - are not against us. However, we have serious doubts as to whether the state mechanism can in practice directly support implementation and how these measures will be implemented. That is because - as I have already said, and as the chairman of the Securities and Markets Committee has already mentioned - it is indeed a matter for her staff, but it is a little bit in number. So you should have already made provision for adequate staffing so that there are no issues in this, now that the time has come. Of course, when I say staffing, I mean only the proper procedures, that is, through ASP. Attention and some diligence should be imposed on the systems that the competent National Tax Authority will adopt to this end, which will receive relevant information. We all know that such sensitive information must be protected from practices that may lead to the disclosure of commercial, industrial or other professional secrecy. Otherwise we will be faced with problems which, in other words, fall within the scope of unfair competition. The positive elements - as I have already pointed out, and as the opposition parties in general have stressed - are specifically and as such we are not opposed. However, I do not know whether, in the end, they will bring the expected benefit to society. We do not deny, for example, that the granting of public property to bodies and services in the public and public sectors and to the OTAs will be the best. However, it is enough - and I stress this - to respect the commitments of the benefiting parties to exploit, etc. I believe the same thing about reducing VAT on stray flowers, on animal food, on the protection of the incompatibility of accounts and, in general, of payment institutions, on the relief of the Lesbos affected, Kos etc., and on the facilitation of their exemption from HISA. Further public finance control, payroll, central administration and public pension costs are also encouraged, the allocation of revenues from special public services and special funds, sanctions in the event of deviations from the budgetary targets for general government bodies in general, as is the case in Germany. You must not be proud, however, of the provisions that are supposed to be restructured and developed, such as, for example, the death of this Board of Economic Experts, the reintegration of retired people as if there were no young people with education, with work available. All of you bring these together for the sole purpose of closing the mouths of those they know. Those retired people there know things and wonders. So that's why you bring them back to cover. That's my opinion. I don't know what the truth is now. I guess he's hiding something here. Because as we said, there are young people with appetite, with degrees. So you want to cover the irregularities, which you obviously know some of your people have done. Besides, you are using many and impossible legal expressions such as for the Securities Committee. You have noted there that the committee may decide whether its act or decision should be published or published anonymously and that this will not apply if it is an act which is insulted. Normally all the decisions and acts of the committee are, in the interest of serving that executive, administrative and, as such, must be able to be insulted and, to be insulted, must have been published beforehand, must be able to claim something on a basis. So what are you saying here? That you will protect through the anonymity some decisions and obviously some of your chosen ones again, obviously, about the chosen ones you are talking about in the arrangement that you want to give the Special Public Business Clearer a success bonus. In fact, there is a provocative position here. You want to do this with retroactive power from 1-1-2017. This is the case with the "MATTALUARY INDUSTRY S.A.", which is an unfair competition. What will apply to a company should apply to other companies, because, as we have said, it works unfairly against others. You once blamed the government, when you were opposition to having "cooked" the bills as it suited it, to arrange "blue" or "green" or, anyway, "very colorful" children. Now you are using hot and unnecessary speed, those who promise you, rather, the vote. There are other cases here, which are problematic. There is a gala without a bottom called a mansion. Of course it is a jewelry for Greek culture, but when? The 250 million where they're going to be found? You're setting up back-up mechanisms. Now you have brought a legislative improvement, which in paragraph 1 says that a fine of EUR 10,000 is replaced by a fine of EUR 20,000. With the fines you are trying to stimulate the Greek economy. This is a new invention of yours and you have unleashed on the road even the Direct Action, which is intended to play the crime, to chase some uninsured or potential offenders, who will fill the public coral. I was the other day on Kerameikos Street, and the dealer came there and gave the drugs. Some ten were gathered, and half of them were hitting hikes on the sidewalks. He's going through the Direct Action Patrol, and I saw it, and I'm happy to say that he's going to intervene now, there's going to be something. They turned their eyes away and went further. The management of the Direct Action, in my view, does not perform as the project should, is incomplete. Of course it's one of your collector mechanisms. Your intelligence that you are going out on the markets and that it is a success and that it comes to growth, gains an interest. Did you get to the markets how? Under what conditions? When someone comes out on the market, it must have a developed economy, because by going out to the markets, it costs more, often more than the lending you could have through the European Union's protected family. This is therefore not a success. You just wanted to find money here and now and you went to the markets to get money at any price. This will be paid by the Greek people with a multiple burden. We call for a majority of technocrats, because we think you have all been tested and have failed. Now is the period that, apart from internal problems, we also have external enemies who look at them. So one government needs a wide-ranging tread with people who are not looking for the vote, will not be able to do so, they are technocrats, they know their subject matter and they will give another impetus to the Greek economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u248	Here, ladies and gentlemen, do you agree to resolve the meeting?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-27-S1-commons.u249	With the consent of the House at 22.25' the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, July 28, 2017 at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: legislative work, continuation of discussion and vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Adaptation of Greek legislation to the provisions of Directive (EU) 2016/881 and other provisions".
