ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. Before entering the agenda, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and being informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, thirty-six students and students and three educational sessions from the 3rd Tripolis Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information: "Renewation - Amendment - Consolidation of the Convention on Special License for the Exploration of the Greek State's exclusive right to access and use the nominal position of the 39th east on the track of the Earth's artificial geostatic satellites and its associated radio frequencies through the construction, launch, operation and commercial exploitation of a pan-Hellenic and cross-border satellite system under the name of Hellas SAt (HELLAS SAT)". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 1 December 2017 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, articles and amendments. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u4	Yes, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u5	We agree with the procedure. I did not, however, take the floor on this matter. The JRC wants to denounce government policy, the government's pursuit.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u6	About what?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u7	For yesterday's events, which the government sought to circumvent, Mr President, the greatest conquest of the working class.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u8	That is what you can tell us in the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u9	Before we begin the procedure, Mr President, for a minute. We're not eating time. The government tried to circumvent the greatest conquest of the working class, the right to strike. He thought it would work for the workers. But that's not what happened. They reacted and organize their struggle, their struggle, and today they are rallying. Of course, no one should deceive, Mr President, the government's tactical manoeuvre to temporarily withdraw the amendment because, as he said, it would bring it back to a worse shape and possibly worse shape than it was up to now. So the working class should not show any confidence. The first answer is today, with the rallys held in Athens and other major cities. Be vigilant whenever it comes up again, have a mass reaction, and of course organise with the best possible preparation the strike on 14 December, where will be the real response to the anti-government government policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u10	Thank you. The rapporteur for SYRIZA Mr Alexandros Meikopoulou has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to present to the House the specific draft law of the Ministry of Digital Policy, as from the political fermentation of recent months around the issues of Space Policy and from the debate that preceded the Standing Committee there is a finding that a common place was created around most of the political forces that make up the Greek Parliament and demonstrated the importance of ensuring that our country's rights in Space were properly guaranteed. In accordance with Article 1 of this sanction, the initial contract between the Greek State and the company called ‘HELLAS SAT’ was signed on 23 August 2001 and lasted 20 years. The purpose of this contract is to grant the rights to filming, i.e. the rights of the country in a wheelchair position in Space and associated radio frequencies, on the part of the Greek State, to the company HELLAS SAT as a provider of satellite telecommunications services. Therefore, this sanction concerns the contract under review and essentially the continuation of the concession of the right to use and commercial exploitation of Greek films 39 to the east to the ‘HELLAS SAT’, the conditions governing it and the exchanges of the Greek State from that concession. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is particularly important to highlight the main technical points of this ratification, which are of increased importance to the Greek State, as they provide more than twice as much consideration as the original contract. First, the State achieves, in exchange for the exclusive use of six transponders against the three provided for in the original contract, both transponders that were eventually delivered. In the renewed contract, the State receives in return three terrestrial hub satellite stations, i.e. three large satellite dishes and two hundred terminals. These terminals are very important for the daily lives of citizens, as they can and meet the particular needs of remote areas, facilitate wider network coverage and effectively form the scope for the base and development of telecommunications activities such as defence, civil protection, telematics, telemedicine, telemedicine, which each modern state must have. It is of paramount importance, ladies and gentlemen, that the Greek legal system is also the provision for the delegation of powers to resolve any disputes in the administrative courts of Athens, on the basis of the provisions of Greek law, instead of the arbitration in Geneva, Switzerland, in accordance with the procedure of the arbitrator provided for in the original contract in Article 49. Let us note here that, apart from the non-crisis of disputes by competent Greek courts, the persistence of jurisdiction in the Geneva arbitration would also have a great cost for the Greek State. It attempts to monitor the implementation of the project and the contract more promptly and effectively by setting up a monitoring and acceptance committee, which is already set up in Article 46, and - also important - and to stay the satellite system control centre within the Greek territory. We receive another seventeen-year transponders as a compensation for the third transponder owed by the original contract and delivery delays on the basis of the original contract, while at the same time the State ensures the free maintenance of the top equipment for five years. The Greek State also ensured the free provision of equipment for the period of transition, thereby ensuring the uninterrupted and continuous operation of public services in the new satellite system of HELLAS SAT. So, ladies and gentlemen, one of the most important technical aspects of this renewed convention, I think it is quite important to stand up to some other points that demonstrate why the renewal of a contract with HELLAS SAT is very important for making use of our country's capabilities. First of all, let us make it clear that the government with the negotiation and conclusion of the renewed contract, on the basis of what I have just said, has managed to close all the loose ends of the old contract, but also to guarantee to the full the rights of the Greek State in space. And I say this because it was clear that the inertia of all previous years, in relation to the original contract with HELLAS SAT, had significantly shattered our country's satellite rights and position in Space. In fact, this is what has happened over the years when our neighbouring countries have managed to ensure not only one but two and three road positions. As mentioned above, the initial Greek public contract with the company expired in 2021. Therefore, in accordance with Article 4 of the original contract, it had to be renewed until 2018. Let me note here that HELLAS SAT had already made requests for renewal to the Greek State in 2010. If the renewal of the contract did not happen, the Greek State would lose the rights deriving from the International Telecommunications Union, because if a country has a orbiting position in the Space and does not use it for three years, the country's rights on this orbit are lost. I think, therefore, that there is a consensus that it is vital for the Greek State to renew this contract and how incompatible with the interests of the Greek State was the attitude that the political system had in previous years. I believe that a more general framework is now being developed where the possibility, by this convention, of exploiting space and telecommunications capabilities in the country, which can obviously produce multiplier effects, in various areas. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to explain: First of all, the most important area, according to the latest developments, is the scope of civil protection. In this direction, therefore, it is important that the broadcasters of the existing satellite can be used by the Armed Forces for effective border surveillance, the National Intelligence Agency, the Greek Police, to ensure alternative means of communication in critical situations and in difficult areas, and by many public bodies, such as the Port, for satellite communications, to ensure more efficient communication that is now being made by telephone, but also by other entities that have shown interest in using a satellite spectrum. Another important scope of the renewed contract is the scope of everyday life. I think we all notice that in high-value products, which we know as the final product, we are generally ignorant of having played a very important role in their production of space applications. At this point, I would also add that the reality of other States in the field of research has shown that not only unnecessary is investment in aerodynamics, but it is absolutely essential. To give some characteristic examples: First of all, the field of magnetic tomography, which is the non-invasive method of imaging that saves millions of lives each year, includes technologies such as digital processing and image signal enhancement, recovered in a space exploration workshop. Also the tiny light-emitting diodes used in the treatment of cancerous cells, especially of the breast. Another success in this area is the improved flexibility of robotic arm to adapt to the needs of its users. Indicate the programmed pacemakers, whose beginnings were three space applications programs and led to the first pacemaker with a significant life span, which could be programmed from a distance with telemetry data without requiring surgery. Also photovoltaic panels whose characteristics began for aerospace and today deliver more energy than conventional and lower costs. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is the beginning of the implementation of an integrated space policy, with the establishment of the Greek Space Agency that follows. Therefore, through ELDIO, it will be possible to interconnect between Greek and global research centres, as well as to interconnect research with production for Greek enterprises. Therefore, our country will be able to form itself as a centre for attracting commercial companies that will be able to find a spectrum in Space according to the model of other countries, such as Cyprus and Malta, which now receive significant fees. Let me point out here that Greece, through its participation in the European Union budget, as a member of the European Space Agency, has spent tens of millions of euros over the last two decades on European programmes, such as Galileo and Copernicus, which have so far been partly exploited. Another important point I would like to stress is that with the present Closure between the Greek State and the company HELLAS SAT and the stay of the control centre in our country, a new, innovative framework is being formed in the space policy of the country, where the first role takes and plays the domestic scientific potential. In essence, therefore, the full utilization of the possibilities provided by this renewed convention is also a step forward in the recovery of Brain Drain, that is to say, to bring back to our country and to make use of the existing scientific potential. The use of human and technical resources in the field of space technologies is therefore made at national level. In the country we have scattered forces in the space industry, which have remained untapped over the past few years. There are companies, ladies and gentlemen, in Greece that are active in the space sector and remain unexploited, in fact by providing their services to other states. Let us only say that seventy-five small and medium-sized enterprises provide their services abroad and we have them unexploited. Our aim, therefore, is to make use of all this potential for our country. Already the navigation of the satellite "HELLAS SAT" is done in Koropi by Greek engineers under the supervision of the Greek State. To sum up, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the Greek State ensures its place in the Space, while using the exchanges will meet its satellite telecommunications needs. After all, for years we have given the European Union money for space industry - about EUR 14 million a year - and we have not collected anything back through geo-returns. The country's new space operators will therefore be served with top names in the space applications area. Space policy is one of the most important policies, because it is linked to high-value products, such as the exploitation of orbital positions in space industry. Already in the country's space industry, there are hundreds of businesses with 200 million turnover and two thousand employees. We also know that four Greek universities are already involved in micro-food production, and that more efficient use of the resources of the NRP towards strengthening space policy is also important here. With the renewed Convention, therefore, all new opportunities open up and relating to many areas, such as the service - as I said - of the defence aspects of the country, the prevention of weather phenomena, the prevention of floods, border control, the monitoring of fires, and the further use of digital applications in precision agriculture, where local cultures will be analysed by satellite and the best solutions will be proposed. Let us note here, ladies and gentlemen, that the full utilization of the application of precise agriculture can help reduce production costs for the Greek farmer of 30% to 45%. I would remind you that a consistent request from the rural area is a reduction in production costs. Here is a possibility that we can take advantage of in order to satisfy such a request. In general, space technology creates, in principle, added value and creates many possibilities. The strategic objective of the state is, therefore, to spread these potential to the economy and production more effectively. In particular, for a country, ladies and gentlemen, like Greece, where the economic crisis in recent years has shown in the most emphatically clear way that we must make effective use of all the opportunities offered by our country - and these possibilities are many and varied - the ratification of the renewed convention will open up many new roads of activity and will increase the overall scope for telecommunications and security in the country. I therefore call on the House, with these thoughts, to accept and vote for the bill in principle, in article and in its entirety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, too. Mrs Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou, a special speaker in the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to discuss the renewal of the contract between the Greek State and the company "HELLAS SAT" on the continuation of the concession of the right to use and commercial exploitation of Greek filming performances at 39 degrees east by 2041 and to examine the conditions governing this concession, as well as the benefits for the Greek State. Mr Minister, as I told you in committee, we were and were, first and foremost, positive in this convention, but also in its extension. We recognise that the stabilisation of the 'HELLAS SAT' in position 39 east, the rights to frequencies belonging to Greece and Cyprus, is a fact of crucial geopolitical importance. They offer coverage throughout Europe, they offer coverage in the Middle East, in South Africa. Top, satellite, telecommunications networks are served by operators. Content is given to more than three million households, services are provided to businesses, but also to governments, and all this is positive. I know, of course, that you don't like me when I show up the successful work of the Samara government. The truth is, however, that today, if we are discussing the renewal of this convention, it is precisely because the Samara Government had worked systematically and vigorously to prepare the ground for you to find everything ready at both political and institutional level. The Samara government effectively faced both the old times of the satellite and the change in the majority package of ownership status by OTE and the initial lack of interest that the company had with the risk of losing the country's sovereign rights on filming. I'm telling you this about the history of the case and not just. I am telling you, too, that we have ensured that the previous government stays in the country of the satellite control centre, special provisions in the event of conditions imposed by national security, benefits to the Greek State by the new manager, investments and the opportunity for the company to make them, have the time to plan them, and new jobs, which are accompanied by investments. That's what we did. In simple terms, the only loose end that we left you, Minister, was to implement the extension, the extension of the existing convention, which we know expired in 2021, until 2041. I, then, Minister, not to recognise this, because I do not expect this from you, just to remind you that this was a real example of effective and exemplary governance, with early decision-making, rapid legitimisation - these are unknown concepts to you - attracting international investors with clear rules that fully ensure our national interests. You once again told the committee that this had been left to the 'automatic pilot' and 'automatic pilot' - I read from the Minutes - 'the aircraft of our space policy does not safely go'. That's what you answered. Fortunately, Mr Minister, the Top Gun pilots have now come, Mr Tsipras and Mr Kammenos, and they have reached the taxes on God. The Greek economy is being launched with the "baroufakia", with the referendum - parody, with the slightest grexit, with the capital control, with a third unnecessarily memorial of EUR 86 billion, with new measures, which are before the gates, with a reduction in pensions, with the abolition of the CSCE, with a reduction in tax, with an increase in VAT, with seizures, seizures, seizures and whatever you say, with auctions, auctions, auctions and auctions, which cynically Mr Mardas is trying today to alleviate the incompatibility. He admits now and says, "We should have done it before", when your slogan was known as "no house in the hands of a banker". To collapse your own account - sucess story -, yesterday comes ELSTAT and announces a slight increase of GDP by just 1.3% compared to the third quarter of the last year. So we should now know that your revised downward target incorporated into the 2018 budget for growth of 1.6% for this year is becoming extremely difficult. Unless you really think that in this last quarter, we will have another launch of growth of 3%, while the world pays HISY, the last instalment of income tax, traffic charges and infinite and most other obligations that you have imposed on it. In conclusion, Minister, your group is flying down. I wish you had left them on the "automatic pilot". I'm going back to the bill. Mr. Pappas, under article 48 of Law 4487/2017 you gave yourself the right not to publish annexes and all documents that fall within the scope of the Space for reasons of public security. When you did that, we wondered why. With Article 2 of the bill, we see that you have classified the annexes to this Convention. We asked you in committee yesterday and visited your Ministry and in the eyes of your officials and advisers I had the opportunity to study the annexes. I'm careful in my location, although I personally didn't see anything very secret. But I'm careful. Now I see why you rated them. Because the annexes illustrate another story of proud negotiation, Minister. As the people say, "What did you have, Yannis?" 'What I've always had'. What do you guys always do? What you've done now. You have worked with each other by deceiving between your ideoleptic obsessions against your private initiative and your well-known inability to deal with any issues of handling and management and finally signed after a proud negotiation with the company, which is reflected in a huge-dimensional dossier. Rapidly, but unviolently, Mr. Minister, you have given in, you have signed a vulnerability to attend a nice momentum. I am referring, of course, to the launch last summer in the French Guiana exotic Kuru, where you attended. I am, however, more specific to give you the opportunity to show you what you wish in your defence of the result of the negotiation, as is reflected in the confidential annexes I studied yesterday morning. I'm summarizing fast. Your rapporteur has said so too. The contraaor gives the public the right to use what? We have the two transponders that were from the previous contract by 2020-2021, we have seventeen transponders that give them instead of the third transponder that was intended and delayed under the existing contract, we have six new transponders, three HUBs, two hundred terminals and we have and - I sum up - technical assistance. It is the training of scientists here, in Cyprus and in general technical support. So let's go to the questions I'm going to ask you. And I'm putting them why? Because what we have to do as a Qualified Opposition is to check whether you have managed to maximise the benefit to the Greek public and to recompense in the light of the public interest. Questions, then: What is, Minister, the financial evaluation of the contract's material parts? I'm asking for an economic assessment. That, to get in touch, means to tell me a number, a sum. Where was the contract based on what study? On the basis of what international practices have you used to correspond to any financial consideration, for the benefit of the public, of what you have received in the contract? Has there been such a precedent before internationally? The contract stipulates that instead of one due transponder, as I have said, you will get the seventeen transponders. I recognise that some details of time, hours, etc. are being given in one of the annexes. But when is all this going to happen? How beneficial is that? Is there a plan for when this exploitation will take place? We are talking about millions, Minister, we are talking about seventeen transponders and we must have a time-based valuation based on time, based on the day. With regard to the new six transponders - I am referring to Rule 32, Minister - it says - they will be used for public and commercial purposes. So, what are the objectives? Do you have a plan? The HUB and the terminals when will you get them? Will you get them now? Will you take them in five years? Would you get them a little - a little? You'll take them to the end, when it's probably no longer in your interest, why will the satellite be old? These are the questions I ask you, Minister. I would like to warn you that, apart from a shocking out of your answers, we will vote 'at present' and that is because this convention is a convention by 2041, as I said, which we will be calling tomorrow as government to implement. I want your act to have been recorded, but also your incomplete and ineffective effort, which has not allowed you to obtain the best possible benefits for the Greek State. I am going to go through the amendments which, of course, you have told us they are not coming. You said: 'In my draft amendments? No. No.' Seven amendments have been tabled. One went and came by in the middle of the night. Some trade unionists took something over and went in the middle of the night. But if you know that, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, I tell you that he will be back, so you will have to sit down. I am not going to talk about all the other amendments. Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Kefaloyannis and the spokesmen and officials responsible from the New Democracy will cover them. However, I shall refer to your amendment, Mr Minister, of your own Ministry. You didn't explain it to us, you didn't present it to us. If I have to, I'll answer for that. I am talking about Amendment No 1367/16 which you tabled on 30 November. The first article of this amendment is some photographic provisions for the staff of your Ministry's General Secretariat of Information. I'm not going to go into the details on that matter. We shall do so, if necessary in the context of parliamentary scrutiny, this debate. Besides, it doesn't seem like us anymore. You've accustomed us to this type of photographic and rhysphetological provisions. It's your well-known tactic. I'll talk about the second article. We are coming back to your favorite topic, Minister, in your form of status - and more personal obsession - media control. I think that this amendment is linked to it, which is why you have brought it into line with the invitation to tender for television licences. I have heard you in your public positions on this matter. I tell you I don't represent anyone here. I represent the New Democracy. When you talk about the independent authorities, like the PSE, I would remind you that we were the ones who told you the same thing the Council of State said. The independent authorities must do this, not a minister who is an aspiring minister - canalarch. So obviously, we let the independent authorities do their job. The independent authorities, however, are doing their job within a legislative framework and this is your own perforated constitutional legislation. So here, what exactly are you doing? I will be waiting to hear you, Minister, and I would like you to enlighten me, because, first of all, it seems to me that you are currently opening up the field to those who have subscribed television and also bring various provisions that - to tell you - are elasticising the framework of potential participants. Secondly, I am very surprised that you are abolishing the nomination of shareholders in companies coming from abroad. I ask: why is that? I do not hide you, Minister, that I'smell rabbit'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u14	And you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u15	You should be aware, Minister, that we will monitor this process very closely. There's a precedent. It's the precedent of pasture and Kalogerica. These phenomena will not be tolerated. So I look forward to your answers so that I can tell you 'no' in the amendment, because that is where we will also come to that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u16	So do we. Mr. Germenis has the floor from her gold.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u17	Thank you. In the first place, I would like to refer to the procedure followed in the preparation of the draft law. Although it was agreed by a majority of the members of the committee to conclude the procedure in the committee at a single meeting, we as Golden Dawn felt it appropriate for the relevant bodies to be invited to make it easier for Members to understand a technical contract, such as that of the HELLAS SAT satellite, because we believe that Greek Members in this Parliament do not have the right training to know technical issues. However, we regret to see that the proposal from the People's League - Golden Dawn was not accepted. Perhaps the Government considered that the non-parliamentary bodies would not make any material observations on the contract and the forthcoming ratification. The draft law we are to vote on concerns the ratification of the consolidated contract between the Greek State, represented by the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information and the Anonymous Company called "HELLAS SAT", which provides satellite systems and communications services. According to the contract, HELLAS SAT is licensed for use and commercial exploitation with the exclusive right of the 39th east or correlated satellite radio frequencies, which under the contractual conditions will be called ‘system’. In short, the ‘HELLAS SAT’ will operate the system by 2041. This time extension for a holding granted to the company under the amendment to the contract shall also entail certain exchanges, in accordance with Articles 17 and 18 of the Appendix to the Convention. With regard to the substance of the draft convention, it is commonly accepted that technological developments and their implementation must be a key priority for every State that has set itself the objective of both improving the standard of living of its citizens and the security of the state. In particular, the development of space technology has produced positive results in the daily lives of citizens. Examples of this include photovoltaics, magnetic tomography, programmed pacemakers, artificial members, image and sound analysis and much more. In particular, the satellite can contribute to the defence policy of our state, the prevention of weather phenomena, the prevention of floods, border control and even the monitoring of fires, as it is able to integrate cameras to monitor. Our priority must therefore be to benefit the Greek state from the development of space technology in all areas. I shall refer here again to a number of reasonable questions which I raised at the committee meeting, which unfortunately were not answered by the Minister. Although it is global practice to entrust respective companies with the rights to exploit similar systems, our consistent view, with regard to national self-sufficiency and autonomy for any kind of our sovereign rights, raises the following concerns and questions. We have also asked the committee today, because we have not received any response from the Minister: are national rights guaranteed in the event of a conflict of interest with this company or are we going to run back to court? Has the relevant Ministry carried out a study showing that the Greek State benefited from this contract? What are the positive results so far from the 2001 agreement? How is the protection of the system guaranteed by hostile interventions taking into account that satellite systems play an important role at military level? In particular, I am saying that Article 28 of the Convention expressly states that there is no guarantee of the insurance cover of the system in the event of war, hostilities, acts of hostile forces, etc. This alone will become a safety test for us for exactly what the Golden Dawn will vote for. It cannot be invested in such advanced technology as satellites, and on the other hand, it cannot cover the interests of the state, Greece, the Greek people. Could the Greek State have more economic gain than this, given the devastating crisis that the country is facing? These are questions that the Minister in the committee did not want to answer. You only had enough to support some of the reports by representatives of other parties on the classified annexes to the Convention. You claimed that the classification of these documents ensures the national interest and therefore it is necessary not to publish the Annexes. You said for a moment that classified documents and classified documents are not unfettered. Everyone here in this Chamber, however, remembers that one week before we were all witnessing the poor show that was set between Kammenos, New Democracy and other political actors. We've become laughing all over the world by talking about contracts. I am talking about the contract that has been dealt with by the whole world with ammunition, about Saudi Arabia. We have learned - and leaked to the press too - that a democracy, a powerful state such as Greece, almost supplied weapons to a terrorist organisation such as ISIS. These leak through the press, if you read foreign newspapers here, in Greece, it does not open no no nostrils, there is not a single resignation in such serious press reports. In particular, Minister, you could invite the members of the committee to your Ministry and make a statement on the content of this information. And if not the members of the committee, let them be at the level of the party chairmen, as was recently the case in another committee, so that the political leaders of the parties will be informed, but that is not what you have done either. As we are not aware of this content, there is, in fact, a lack of substantial information on this convention. By now returning to the purpose of the ratification convention, I would like to highlight the necessary shift that the Greek governments have to make in the nationalisation of our established interests. What is important at this time is the promotion of national interests in all areas, whether they be economical, social or political. We must move away from the culture of globalisation and clearly defend the national interests of our country. We are all witnesses and societies of failure and the high risk of the policy of globalisation for the survival of Europe's peoples. However, all the Greek governments in question do not move according to the national interest. Even the new draft law brought by your Ministry regarding the establishment of a Greek Space Agency is a result of the country's legal obligations towards European directives and guidelines. It is not an autonomous and autonomous legislative initiative of the Greek Government. I am making this reference because one might argue that the work entrusted to HELLAS SAT could be undertaken by the Hellenic Space Organisation under the appropriate conditions. Although this position for many seems to be a dream of summer night, we are convinced that, with proper data management, such a move could take place. Greece has scientific minds but does not have infrastructure and does not have money. So where we need to focus is to find resources that will serve such designs and initiatives. Our firm and firm position is that our country has these resources. I am referring to the unexploited energy treasure that exists in the hearts of the Greek land, a treasure that no government has until now had the guts to exploit. On the basis of our concerns and the references I have made, I believe that, because of the subject of this convention, which concerns development, improvement in the communications sector, the Golden Dawn will say that it is against this process and because of the questions we have raised and we have not received a reply from your Ministry. As far as the amendments, which until last night were seven in number and, because some of your constituents pushed you, you took back one on employment rights. Alas, what else do we see in this country? Left-wing government want to abolish workers' rights, trade unions' rights to strike? We will also see this in the days that are coming, since, as you have pointed out today, various of your Members, who play it by MPs and ministers, are selling veteranity to your members and voters. You will be returning with a new amendment and you will also be abolishing that right. For the first time a left government to abolish the right to strike! I am referring, of course, to the catalyst that has happened, that a bill should come and that there should be amendments which are irrelevant to each other, that Members should be asked to have an opinion rather than a positive or negative view, at a time when the burden is not being placed on the government, but also on your Bureau, Mr President. Of all the groups in this House, we have raised this issue. We have also brought the problem to the Conference of Presidents. Looks like you're whistling indifferently. It is not possible for Parliament to legislate in this way. We are voting against all the amendments. We do not think that this situation can continue. We are kidding each other because all parties consider that this situation should not continue. On the other hand, however, we take this step and give courage to both the government and the ministers, who bring such amendments to discuss these issues. To close, I want to comment on the sultan Erdogan trip. We, the Golden Dawn, say he's unwanted. We directly say that Cyprus is Greek. We're not talking about that. We believe that this sultan Erdogan trip is done to rinse him out. From all of Europe, from all democratic parties, from all states, from all Western civilization "eats a door" the sultan. You can open a ferry to Turkey, to what it has done all over the world, so that you can wash it out. We invite you to be serious and to see how the situation really has been and not to drag an entire nation under the teeth of Turkey, the sultan and ISIS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u18	The reason for this is the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Syntrakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the misery of the government has no measure. With the well-known, slandering parliamentary procedures, under the surprise procedure, he tried to table an amendment, in fact last night, to block the declaration of strike in a bill, which was no reason - in an unrelated bill in relation to the amendment he tabled - and after having already passed the bill from the parliamentary committee procedure. He withdrew it, of course, under the direct instant reactions of our party's class trade union movement. Did the government regret it? Changed politics? No, of course not. He's doing the relevant manoeuvre, as he's used to it in the past. Let me remind you that the third memorandum brought it into the 15th century, while the insurance abortion of Katrugalou brought it Easter. It is obvious that the government will return to the crime scene, perhaps on Christmas Eve, considering that it will catch the working class sleep. The fox, however, always shows her tail. The Government at all costs comes to implement the requirements of the Greek Industrial Association to tighten up the framework for the proclamation of strikes, more than doubled by the amendment the number of workers required in order for a primary union to proclaim a strike. Is it by chance that this disgraceful move by the government will, like the thief, bring this amendment, regardless of whether it is withdrawn - I repeat - temporarily? It's not random at all. The government, as the most effective pillar of the civil system, today in this phase in our country, which has been called upon to make all dirty work on behalf of pluralism, wants, on the one hand, to impose extremist silence on the tomb where employers' terrorism and arbitrariness, threats and pressures entrenched, ban the right of workers to claim, effectively annul any expression of trade union freedom. On the other hand, it wants to take another step towards the full lifting of the strike right, when already with the existing legal and institutional framework nine out of ten strikes are considered illegal and abusive. So what does the government do in practice? The government rewards and safeguards the extortion of the employer to prevent, in every possible way, trade union and political action, repression, redundancies for trade union reasons. And historical experience has shown that anti-grassroots measures and repression go hand in hand. In fact, while employers and capital progress a step further than the attack on the workers' strike right, they enshrine with the backs of SYRIZA the retreat, the well-known lockout, which had brought to the vote in the House in January 2016. Capitalists, ladies and gentlemen, had never resigned from the goal of total banning the strike. The strike is one of the most powerful weapons the worker has against the capitalist. It was guaranteed as a result of harsh, bloody class conflicts and no legal arrangements gave this right to the working class. The leader of the Bolsheviks said that the strike teaches the workers to understand where the power of the bosses lies and where the power of the workers. He teaches them to think not only about their own boss and not only about the closest, but about all the bosses, about the whole class of capitalists and about the whole working class. That is why it is dealt with by the capitalists, their state, and by civil law, and by the governments of that civil state, the strike as an illegal act. That is why he has historically been treated violently and often murderously by the forces of repression of the urban state and the private armies of the employer. The Greek, like the international, labour movement in its history, has recorded hundreds of historians such strike stations as the last major strikes, the nine-month heroic steel strike, and the many-month strikes of the workers at Heraklion's recycling plant that brought tangible results for the workers. The working class must be ready to fight in full force. The company's gypsy of the strike right won't be easy to pass. Hands off the strike! Today's rallys are taking place at the moment and in the evenings throughout the country, just like the strike on 14 December, they can and must become a catalyst in order to break the tsamboukas of the government, the European Union, the Greek Industrial Association, to show its strength. So everyone needs to get out on the streets today and on the 14th. From the end, from Crete to Evros, the slogan: "Work, you can without bosses, without you string doesn't turn around." Ladies and gentlemen, the bill that is being discussed today falls within the framework of the privatisations carried out by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. It concerns the ratification of the contract signed between the Greek State and the provider of satellite telecommunications ‘HELLAS SAT’, which will be in force for another twenty years, until 2041. The pretext of the government is the utilization of the Greek orbital position on the 39th east, in the commonly called Space, and the high exchanges for our country, thus trying to reverse the reality and the real objectives of this agreement. This is a privatization of our country's orbital position in a multinational group without the control by the Greek authorities of a sovereign right, for which the Greek state will not receive any substantial financial compensation. It delivers a critical infrastructure for state functions in a multinational group, making its operation uncertain in circumstances of crisis. The operation of military communications, the communication of other state authorities through the satellite shall be carried out under the control of the group to which the satellite belongs. Transponder control is at the level of data transfer, while the parent company continues to control the satellite and can close any circuit at any time. The essential thing for the Communist Party of Greece is not whether the country has any economic advantage in general, but the fact that the agreement is fully compatible with the privatisation policy followed by the urban governments, within them, and the current government of SYRIZA with the ANELs, in order to ensure the profits of the monopolistic groups. The contract itself states that the scope of the contract for an additional twenty years is related to the objective of ensuring the group’s profitability, in order, as it says, to cover the depreciation of its additional, high-cost, investment. All the rest that the government says is purely communication, such as the stay of the satellite business centre within Greece, since the multinational group, to which the satellite belongs and which maintains full operational and operational control, can at any time change the operating station. The satellite may be used to broadcast television programmes, the content of which and the way they are broadcast to serve the large communications groups that manage them. At the same time, at least it is funny that the government is trying to show that it has a satellite policy. Communicating is also the similar draft law, introduced to the Committees for Discussion tomorrow, on the establishment of a space organisation. Tomorrow, of course, we will say a lot more about this issue. So all they do is simply in this draft law to lease the orbital position without any kind of connection with the Greek production structure or scientific research. Unlike the government's policy to privatise the orbital position, the radically different path of development of the working people's power on the one hand would take advantage of the satellite position, in order to cover a large part, a wide range of communication problems in the country - providing multi-television programmes, transmitting information and communication - and, at the same time, exploiting the development of satellite technology by linking it to Greek universities and socialized production. On the basis of all the above, therefore, the JRC is voting against this draft law and, therefore, the contract itself. With regard to the amendments, in Amendment No 1367/16 on the election and term of office of elected representatives of officials at the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, we will vote'residents' in Article 1. Article 2, which concerns the abolition of restrictions on licensing for subscription, radio and television services, will vote against, because since 2015 you have brought more than two hundred amendments, interventions, modifications, reforms, transforming this law for the media into a "ladder". So what is the amendment doing? It enables payrollers to participate in the process of awarding television channels. It's a photographic device. Your argument until first was that the concentration of the channels must be limited to a few, specific hands. This amendment undoes not make your original point. The amendment with a general number of 1368 and a special number 17 on the issues of educational units in tours, tourists, etc. will be voted against, because the autonomy of tourist education is even greater on substance. You take it from the Ministry of Education and go to the Ministry of Tourism instead of being part of the single educational process, as the JRC says, and with only funding from the state budget. With the separation you do, any issues that arise will also be regulated "autonomous", because this design will be based on the needs of the tourist capital, the conclusion and performance of public contracts for the supply of goods and services. In paragraph 3 of this amendment, the educational staff of ASE, IEK, tour schools and parts of tourism and professionals are now part of the General Service Council, and until first of all they were elected by its own Service Council. Now only when they are involved in educational staff matters can participate in its composition. Finally, I am going to put another amendment to it, and we look back on the others in dentistry. It is the amendment with a general number of 1370 and a special number 19, which concerns the authorisation to build projects at political airports. In essence, this amendment, ladies and gentlemen, facilitates the process of carrying out projects and extending facilities to the areas of political airports and port zones on behalf of the 'FRAPORT' and the fourteen privatised airports. So this is an extra gift to the 'FRAPORT'. Hi, I'm glad to meet you. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u20	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theory, after taking part in the educational programme "Research and we are discussing Governor John Kapodistrias", which is organizing the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-six students and students and two educational attendants from the American College. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister, Mr Papagelopoulos, has the floor to present an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment proposes the recasting of Article 51 of Law No.3691/2008, on the one hand, to make the provision already in place effective, on the other hand because there is a need to adapt Greek legislation to international standards, as defined by international conventions, but also by the constantly evolving practice of international evaluation mechanisms such as GRECO, the United Nations Anti-Corruption Monitoring Mechanism and the OECD Labour Group on Dominance in International Business Trade. This amendment was tabled in the light of our country's assessment by the OECD Working Group on Torture, which will take place on 14 and 15 December. It is therefore necessary to vote for the amendment, so that we can have the successful completion of the evaluation. I must point out that the product of this amendment, namely the recasting of Article 51, is the result of the work of the Legislative Committee in the Ministry of Justice, which prepares for the incorporation of the Fourth Money Laundering Directive and we have simply deducted Article 51, in view of the reasons I mentioned earlier, to have the successful assessment. We can share this amendment with three - four chapters. I would like to say this: first of all, the basic elements of the offences on which sanctions are imposed. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Time is not enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u22	You have one more minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u23	I shall have a little tolerant, Mr President, to report on a few things, although the explanatory statement is fully comprehensive and is constantly referring to the international obligations of the country and the directives and international treaties with which we are adapting. I would therefore say that legal persons are responsible not only in cases where the money laundering or bribery of an official or a political person is done for the benefit of a legal person, but for any major offence against money laundering committed for or on behalf of a legal person. It is no longer necessary for the offender to hold a management position within the legal framework on the basis of powers of representation, but by divorce, or to hold a management or representation post. It shall be clarified, in order to avoid any dispute, that the legal person and when the person has a management position, is a moral automobile or accomplice. The penalties provided for, the fines shall be doubled in order to strengthen the deterrent character. With regard to the strictness of the sanctions threatened, the separation between the supervisory obligation in accordance with money laundering legislation and non-compulsory legal persons is abolished. The criteria for the imposition and adoption of sanctions are set out in greater clarity. It is abolished - and this is very important - the co-responsibility of the Minister of Justice and the co-responsible Minister for the imposition of fines each time. This ensures that political games do not take place with fines for corruption and becomes a competent authority for the liabilities of the supervisory authorities, namely, the Bank of Greece, the Securities and Market Commission, and the rest of the Financial Crime Corps. The rest are sufficiently detailed, references are made to the country's international obligations and why. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, too. Mr Mavragans has the floor to present an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment proposed by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport relates mainly to the issue of bureaucracy in relation to the investments we need directly. It has been reported that this has only to do with investment in the fourteen regional airports. However, a reading of Article 29(6) of Law 4495/17 is convincing on the contrary, because that is where it speaks of all construction work at ports, airports, facilities, buildings and any other works. Therefore, it is not only about the specific areas, it is about all the construction work, the executions of works which are related to and applied for building permits. This is why, with the proposed amendment, there is a time limit for the administrative authorities to respond, give opinions, approve and, in any case, adopt individual administrative acts, and these are 14 working days.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u26	Thank you. The special speaker of the Independent Greeks, Mr Lazarides, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. I cannot leave two sentences that I have heard from the officer's representative, and I will comment on them before I go to the bill. I won't take much time. I heard about effective and exemplary governance of the country by the Samara - Venizelos government. This was probably a joke, because this government received the 120% debt they had received and taken it to 180%. Is that what it is? Effective or exemplary governance? He then escaped, without being able to get the rating, and made the elections in order to avoid his panic that he could not pass the evaluation, despite the fact that the slogan of succes story was released. What's that? Effective and exemplary governance? Two hundred and fifty-two thousand businesses are closed. I would suggest more modesty in Civic Anti-Civilization, because the figures disprove it. We had the statements of Diaselblum recently, which said that the solution was wrong. The solution was chosen to save banks against taxpayers in Greece. Of course, this choice was made, because otherwise the European Central Bank would have to check the Greek banks, so then it would have been revealed what kind of game took place to the detriment of the Greek banks, because this government closed three banks - pillars: Agricultural, Treasury and Commercial Bank. I'm on my way to the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, in spite of its previous absence from technological developments, Greece is today developing dynamically in the field of Space, with a clear commitment to exploit satellite technology and innovative applications to the benefit of its own and of various other neuro-algal sectors. What we have to look at today is the renewal of the contract for the use of the satellite system under the name 'HELLAS SAT' for twenty more years. In particular, according to the draft law of the Ministry of Digital Policy, the contract is renewed and extended until 14-12-2041, that is, the authorisation of the Greek State to operate on the access and use of satellites. As the explanatory statement informs us, the redefinition of the contract consists of the creation, maintenance on the Greek territory of the satellite communications system to ensure the provision of advanced telecommunications facilities and upgraded, innovative and alternative communication services, as well as the service of national strategic objectives and interests of the Greek public. As regards the technical characteristics, the public achieves, in exchange for the exclusive use of six transponders, the exclusive use of the three provided for in the original contract, both transponders, which were eventually delivered to it. In addition, it receives a seven-year relay as a compensation for the owed third transponder and delivery delays under the original contract. Furthermore, in the renewed contract, the State receives in return three terrestrial hub satellite stations, three large satellite dishes, namely, two hundred terminals. In addition to the technical features and new technologies, however, it is very important that the broadcasters of the existing satellite can also be used by the Armed Forces for More effective Border Protection and Monitoring, by the National Intelligence Service, by the Hellenic Police to ensure alternative means of communication in critical situations and in difficult areas, by the Port for its own service needs, while a very significant improvement will be brought to the day-to-day life of the citizens, as they will consistently meet the specific needs of remote areas with wider network coverage, while in the primary sector the further use of digital applications in agriculture will optimise production, thus the local and national economy, as local cultures will now be analysed by satellite and the best solutions will be proposed on a case-by-case basis. The benefit for the country will only be enormous for the protection of our agri-food sector, as only time information on the prevention of weather phenomena is sufficient - and I add here that it will be precise - which will enable both the producer to protect its production from natural disasters and the state to direct substantial amounts to development and infrastructure, or where necessary for projects, rather than compensation. Ladies and gentlemen, the present agreement achieves a significant improvement in the conditions in favour of the Greek public. The contract provides for free maintenance of the equipment for a period of five years, and in the event of partial or total destruction of the transponders, it was agreed that the service provided on alternative satellites will be provided by the contractor and, if it is determined that the services provided are not satisfactory, insurance compensation will also be obtained. The headquarters, the facilities - terrestrial stations, telemetry antennas and others - the staffing and work are carried out on the Greek territory in Koropi, ensuring the coverage of the satellite telecommunications needs of the public and of its services. The draft law contains many developmental provisions. It ensures our presence in Space, as well as the expansion of related activities and the Independent Greeks see it very positively and we support it. The same applies to the amendments, which resolve several ambiguities that have existed and come from the past. We're positive to them too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, too. Mr Mavrotas has the floor, a special speaker of the river.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President, and I would also like to thank Mr Saridis for giving me his position. Let's see what this bill is about. In 2001, the first contract of the Greek State was signed with HELLAS SAT, allowing it to use and access the Greek films on the 39th east of Greenwich, according to the international practice of granting the rights of filming to a commercial provider of satellite and telecommunications services. According to the draft law of the Ministry of Digital Policy, this contract is renewed in relation to the original contract, which expired in 2021 for a period of 20 years and is extended until 14-12-2041 for the authorisation of the Greek State to access and use the nominal position of the 39 east on the orbit of the Earth's artificial geostatic satellites and associated radio frequencies and communication by construction, launching, operation and commercial exploitation of a satellite system of pan-Hellenic and cross-border telecommunications, under the name ‘HELLAS SAT’. ‘HELLAS SAT 3’ will be checked by the centre of the subsidiary, HELLAS SAT, which is in Koropi. In other words, the historical phrase 'Houston, we have a problem', which was the subject of the 'APOLO 13' mission, to us it will be 'Kosovo, we have a problem'. We had a number of questions in committee, for example how it is renewed four years before the contract expires and why we are going until 2042 and so forth. We believe that these questions have been resolved in the committee. Refreshment goes until 14-12-2041. In fact, if we see the festivities on December 14th, it's St. Arrian's, whatever that means. We have also been solved and the questions about why these contracts are for such a long time. It is a long-term project and it also takes time to build every satellite. That is why they are renewed four years before the end of the year. In fact, on 1 November, which we had in the Committee on Research and Technology Stamatis Krimizis, one of our most important modern ambassadors abroad in the field of science, with a key role in NASA's missions, he had told us that the Space may be so far away, but at the same time it is so close to our everyday lives. The use of satellite means has become an integral part of our lives. He even mentioned telecommunications, satellite television, Internet, meteorology, navigation via GPS, which started by ships and planes and now we use it on our mobile phones to get to the stand to buy a newspaper, those who are still not reading newspapers from the mobile phone. Also, satellite systems are interconnected with national security, as defence systems make use of data from space platforms for too many applications. There is, of course, the development dimension. As Mr Krimizis said, the financial sizes associated with Space are huge. This is therefore a dynamic sector, since according to a recent OECD study, which also agrees with NASA. For every one of you who invests in Space, it will get 7 euros back. In recent years employment in the sector has increased by 17%. These are mostly scientific staff jobs. The applications of the relevant technologies are the background to today's economy, i.e. computers, smart phones, navigation, smart agriculture, i.e. the combination of meteorological data, in order to have optimal irrigation conditions, telecommunications, new materials, photovoltaics, etc. It is noted that according to the relevant literature in our time, some forty Greek companies dealing with Space have developed, employing about two thousand employees and having a turnover of 150 million euros a year. These figures are not at all appalled, and in fact for an area which is purely exportable. The development of Greek companies starts in 2005, when Greece became a member of the European Space Agency - and we are already participating in European Union programmes and actions such as Galileo, the corresponding European GPS system. In this context, therefore, the renewal of the public service contract with HELLAS SAT comes to ensure the rights of Greek space and to lay the foundations so that satellite communications in the country, in particular those relating to security, defence and other critical services, will be served in the next twenty years by satellites operating Greek hands and controlled by satellite centres within the Greek territory. Also, the active involvement of Greek scientists and companies in designing constructions, devices and software, to be used on space missions, is a great issue. Thus, migration, the famous 'brain drain' will no longer be a one-way for those scientists involved in space technology or similar applications. More generally, therefore, the draft law is considered positive, as it concerns a sector whose country seeks to develop further. There's no place for us to fight who started it, who's continuing it, etc. The point is to continue and give his fruits. It also creates favourable conditions for the creation of new jobs for scientists specialised in this area, most of whom are usually employed in scientific bodies and foreign companies. Now they'll be able to do that in our country as well. "At Space, then! Infinitely and even further!", as Buzz Laitgiar said in animated cartoon film "Toy Story", those who have children up to 20 years old will certainly have seen it in a movie or video. I strongly recommend it! One comment: I, too, would like to express a question which other speakers and rapporteurs have had to hide certain annexes to the HELLAS SAT Convention as classified, as referred to in Article 2. And they do have a long way to go with classified documents, whether we're talking about missiles or about satellites. Of course the Minister also told the committee - Mrs Asmakopoulou even went from there - that the classified documents are not futile and that they relate to technical details of frequencies used by the Army, by EL.AS. and the NSA. He also said that we could appoint a representative and go there to see them. I hope Mr Pappas does not mean a visit like the one we made to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where we went to see two telegrams and saw what the government wanted, not what the telegrams were referring to. Instead of becoming wiser, then, we became more suspicious. And because there were also insinuations about the periphery of counter-population on the subject of satellite in the committee, our main objections were the communication of the matter - see travel to French Guinea, as if they needed - and not in essence, which experts have already spoken about. Unfortunately, however, this bill, despite its transcendental and space character, has failed to come out of the galaxy of the amendments - of unrelated amendments - which enter as comets into the atmosphere of our parliamentary procedure. They go in and sometimes go out, such as the amendment on the quorum's visa to 50%, when it comes to a strike decision. This particular amendment has been withdrawn, obviously in order to have a more detailed debate on the subject and not to go to the mosquitoes. The Minister told the committee that no amendments will be made to this convention. But he didn't play good defense or he didn't want to play good defense and he seems to have come. Let us go to the amendment with a general number of 1372 and a special number 21, concerning the conclusion of fixed-term private contracts to meet clean-up and storage needs in ministries, surveillance bodies and independent authorities. I'm trying to remember how many times you've had corresponding provisions. Here again, we see the same thing, as we did last week, through a joint ministerial decision to define the qualifications required for each specificity and all the qualifications involved in the recruitment process. The ASA will simply do the role of the wheelchair, as is the case in the IPO procedures, i.e. participate in the notice and in the procedure of objections. And I would like to ask you, since this is where you legislate horizontally and vertically, general legislation on recruitment for a fixed period could not exist? How many people do you estimate will need to fill these cleanliness and storage places? Why don't you bring some financial data, even one size class? How much is it going to cost all this 2018? Give us a number. It is not possible for such a serious amendment to come to the House unspeakable. We are not talking here about appointing ferry, but about the portal of the Edinburgh Castle, Mr. Poppa! And I'm sure you'll know the Edinburgh Castle well. Another strange coincidence is the time, the eighteen months. How do the eighteen months come? Is there somewhere near - just after or just before - we determine the voting time? Mr Mavragans spoke of the amendment by general number 1370. It gives the Civil Aviation Authority planning powers to speed up the licensing procedures at the 14 airports. And, yes, we agree that there should be an acceleration of the investment processes. But speeding up parliamentary work also leads to mistakes. And there is a mistake in the wording in the first article, where it seems to be the Civil Aviation Service giving permission to build ports as well. The way it's printed, that's...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u30	It's corrected.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u31	Is it corrected? Good. Because the way we saw it, we thought it was for water and that you went to get all mixed up. However, I dare not imagine what would happen if you, Mr SYRIZA's gentlemen, were in opposition: how would you have risen up, would you say about procedures that are, say, a fast track, etc. What we see, however, from life is that “the gods are also convinced.” Or, rather, 'Christmas and Ministers are convinced'! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, too. Mr Papagelopoulos has the floor to make a correction.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Because I forgot to talk about it, I'll make a statement to write in the Minutes: On page 2 of the explanatory statement, Law 2655/1998 was referred to as a misinterference. The right is Law 2656/1998. On page 8, in points (b) and (c), paragraph 4 refers to one subparagraph (c), in the other subparagraph (d). Paragraph 4 has been written by a mistake, and paragraph 5 is correct. In the explanatory statement, all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, fifty-one students and students and three attendances of teachers from the 1st Aegina High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Saridis, special speaker of the Centroon Union, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. I shall be very brief, because the quality of the bill under consideration allows it. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is a legislative initiative by the Government which is fully documented, has the beginning, medium and end, and the reasons for it are clear and the benefits for the Greek public are particularly important. Reading the explanatory statement and checking the reliability of the twelve points, of the twelve arguments it makes in support of its provisions, I found that this is the case. The original contract, for example, mentioned the exclusive use of three transponders, and now the same is achieved for six transponders, and even the public will receive three terrestrial hubs and two hundred computer terminals to meet its needs. In addition to this draft law, the Government also ensured the free five-year maintenance of the equipment. We also consider the fact that the headquarters and facilities, ground stations, telemetry, tracking and control antennas, as well as staffing and work are carried out on Greek territory. It's particularly important. It would therefore be extremely irresponsible for us to be negative towards a clear improvement in the contract. Unfortunately, however, the fact that you have made a norm of legislating with amendments, apart from the need to return to each other so that we can rectify cuffs, has other consequences. You are forcing us to vote 'at present'. Our initial positive attitude was mainly based on the determination of the enormous importance for Greece of ensuring its presence in Space, which is achieved by the extension until 2041 of the Greek State's licence to access and use the nominal orbital position of 39 degrees east on the track of Earth's geostatic satellites. This geostrategic position belongs exclusively to Greece and Cyprus. So knowing these and taking into account the extent of our responsibility as a political party and in order to react equally to the legislative practices of the government, but also to the absence of a substantial opposition, we have to resort to the'residents'. The Centro Association is not in the position of a mere observer. The Greek citizens did not send us here, we were not brought here by our fellow citizens to watch you use each other as an excuse for what you are doing. And the Government and the Opposition are using the things of your opponents to justify yours. That cannot be accepted by us. We have a responsibility to explain to you that the vast majority of the Greeks do not agree with this pheasant and would prefer to reach political agreements and instead of eating among us, to build a single cross-party front against the real enemies of the country. Today I have learned of a newspaper of 'Eurasian News'. I shall make a small reference to this and I shall make a statement on the image that we in the Greek Parliament have presented so far. According to this post, Turkey's Ministry of Transport, Maritime Affairs and Communications is preparing for the development of a space launch system called "Bourak". The project, which is expected to start in 2018, will put an end to Turkey's dependence on satellite launches that do not actually belong to it. The aim is to develop from its side the technology needed for space projects and to create a space company designed for 2023. One of its main objectives is, therefore, to make Turkey independent of those countries that already have access to the Space. So as long as these in the neighboring country, government and opposition continue to fight about how warm these chairs are, continue to compete for your own interests and not for the national interest! That is not what we in the Central Association will stop calling it! I am going to make a quick comment on the amendment by the Ministry of Digital Policy of General Number 1367, which attempts, on the one hand, to regulate certain issues relating to the election and term of office of representatives of officials at the Ministry's single administrative and disciplinary boards and, on the other, to abolish some of the restrictions imposed by the law on the operation of free-range radio stations. It also deals with the licensing and subscription of radio and television services. First of all, this is a legislative initiative, the second part of which should be re-introduced by the Minister in plenary. But what I want and I think it is worth pointing out is the fact that people are tired of this case with the channels and the canals. There are, for example, some of our fellow citizens who take into account in their assessments, to draw a conclusion on what is actually happening in the even today cloudy, cloudy broadcasting landscape, the fact that, recently, on your own initiative - the government - legislative initiative, with our vote and our own, the Central Association, has reduced an unspeakable tax that would once boast the canaloors in the middle and went from 20% to 5%. We agreed on this reduction, Minister, because you assured us that the four hundred jobs per channel are guaranteed. Unfortunately, however, because, as I am told, the Independent Public Income Authority refuses to answer and provide information about how much money it received from this tax in the years 2016-2017, I am forced to ask you myself and ask for your assurance in a question, an ACP, which will be submitted, asking me to be informed in my turn, so that I can inform those citizens who cannot be informed by the competent authority, how much money it received from the public or how much money it owes the public authorities to the public. Before the Step down from the Step, I would like to make a comment, which I consider to be very important and also depends on the responsibilities of the Ministry of Digital Policy. A few days ago, together with two colleagues, Mr Skouricos and Mr Papachristopoulos, we sent a letter to the PSE, the National Broadcasting Council, with which we asked its members to carry out their statutory duties and to ensure that the measurements of public opinion are done in a fair manner and that they do not serve other purposes, such as the influence of citizens on the formation of their consumer habits or their political views. Minister, the position of the Centroon Union on this matter is best known to you than to anyone. First we asked for an examination of PAMAK's popular activity. We have serious indications that something is wrong with polling in general. However, a more typical example is the ones of PAMAK, on behalf of a private channel. The Centro Association with its President has put it in the public debate, Minister, its proposal to create a new independent authority, which will be responsible for the measurements of public opinion, whether it concerns what they buy from the supermarkets or what they vote on. The answer we received from the PSE - which will be made available to you - convinced us, Minister, that the solution could be given only after your own legislative initiative, a legislative initiative by the Ministry of Digital Policy. So I ask you to look at the possibility of legislating in order to get the Greeks reliable information and information at last, especially as regards the measurements of public opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, too. The reason is the special speaker of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr. Ioannis Maniotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, the ratification of the convention has been placed in committee too and we have said that we are positive. We are positive on a contract that was signed for the first time in 1994 between the Greek State and HELLAS SAT, so that it opens a new period in the international arena for the country's telecommunications upgrade. After twenty years of operation it is certain that there have been conclusions on the basis of which we can use the technological developments that have taken place in the intervening period, but also to use the experience of the International Telecommunications Union, the ITU, so that we can sign a convention just as all modern states sign up to it. I hope that, with the exception of a few issues, the convention that we have before us is in progress. [[The President-in-Office of the Council, Mr DIMITRIOS KAMMEINOS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] However, at the committee meeting, when I was asked by the chairman how we are in the contract, I said that I wish this positive attitude not to be taken as a possibility or opportunity for the government to table amendments, just like - unfortunately - has been used to us lately. The Minister refused the possibility of tabling amendments but, uh, of the miracle, we are today with seven night amendments, from which there is obviously a complete confusion, but also an effort by the government not only to correct what it is doing, but at the same time to try to seize from the national Parliament decisions which would otherwise be extremely negative. Unfortunately, the government is irreparable. If what is happening now to other governments - and indeed to amendments which are politically and constitutionally extremely important - were to happen then you can be sure that we would have a completely different setting in the national Parliament today. Why is this all happening now? All this is because the government wants to hide two very basic negative developments over the last few days, at the expense of not the government but at the expense of the Greek people and the national economy. The first negative is that the third assessment was signed with all the negative effects, with whatever could have been done by a government which, in fact, is not negotiating even when the third assessment should, in fact, be closed in the shortest time. The most characteristic example is the case of PPC, and of course the issue of auctions for actions, for which you see the government avoids being placed. She wants to forget herself when Mr. Tsipras, for example, described as a "crime" the legalisation of "little" PPC. Obviously now does not consider a crime - I do not know exactly what it considers it - the assignment and sale of the three lignite plants of PPC. Furthermore, there is absolutely no reaction - in fact hypocritical silence of fish - to the issue of first-resident auctions, where it is quite clear that they have not taken any initiative to ensure after 1-1-2018 the first residence of medium-sized and poor households, a commitment for which, on our part, the Democratic Integration side, there is a very clear position that this regime must in every way be protected and shielded from medium- and low incomes and, on the contrary, that all auctions of strategic malpractices, those with their loans in Greece, but their deposits and qualifications abroad, should immediately proceed. At the same time, yesterday ELSTAT had a second negative communication on the country's development: although during the previous quarter we had an extremely positive climate in terms of tourism, the development achieved is a development which in no way leaves us in a dream to imagine that we could reach 2%. I am not talking about the 2.7% that exists in the previous budget. I am talking about what the Prime Minister has said many times, that growth in this year will have the '2' figure. So it seems that - unfortunately - the Greek people, the Greek citizens, the national economy will lose at least EUR 2 to 2.5 billion from the increase in the Gross Domestic Product, which could have been if the operation of the current government obeyed an elementary political and investment logic. It seems, however, that this too is something that is not of interest to the government, as even ready-to-date investments are being made. But much more he is not interested in attracting new ones. It is clear that the government's strategy is poorer than the social strata, which can only marginally survive, so that everyone can become a very good electorate for the next political and party developments. That's why he's giving the social dividend. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall now move on to the subject of the amendments. I shall start with Amendment No 1371, which was tabled at night and night. It is perhaps the most typical example not just of the sloppiness and hypocrisy but of the deep contempt of the government towards the Greek society. For a constitutionally guaranteed right, the right to strike, a right for which we had SYRIZA's oaths of faith and honour and the Government that it will in no way be affected, come and table an amendment at night, which is immediately withdrawn. If it had not been withdrawn today, after a few hours, it would have been obliged for the government to support it. How? No consultation with society itself, no consultation with the social partners. Because only with a great dialogue, open and democratic, we have to decide on such rights, constitutionally guaranteed, such as the right to strike. We expect to see what the so-called 'legislative improvements' will be and when the government will bring this piece of legislation, which is certain to have a section. The incision is that for the first time the Left abolishes the right to strike. I hope you're not proud of that, too! I now come to Amendment No 1368 on arrangements for educational units in the Ministry of Tourism. We are opposed to this amendment, because the feasibility and benefit of the regulation proposed by the Minister for Tourism is not at all obvious, and it is also clear that the upgrading of tourism education and training is also a constant demand for both our party and all the tourism sector and our country's focus. We propose to the Minister that all efforts be made to strengthen vocational education and training in this most dynamic sector of the economy, as has been promised to do, rather than weaken it by regulation, such as the one that has been tabled. Amendment 1369 is an amendment that we have serious reservations about, because there is no definition of ‘legal entity’ in Criminal Law. This is undoubtedly a necessary and appropriate tightening of the legal framework against money laundering, in line with international developments. But we in the Democratic Reconciliation believe that a critical improvement proposal is necessary, which we will be tabling and which, if not, will create enormous risks. It is legally unacceptable and extremely dangerous to introduce vague legal concepts into criminal law. Such a vague and vague concept is that of the ‘entity’, the ‘entity’ introduced by the amendment, in order to amend the respective law of 2008. It is, moreover, a basic principle of criminal law that there can be no law vague, that is to say, definition of an unspecified one. It is not a legal dogmatism but a timeless, judiciary, a democratic guarantee for the citizen against state power. The entity is a concept that does not meet in Criminal Law but only in Taxation and Administrative Law. It creates a strong insecurity and a wide margin of interpretation. It is thus at risk - and the government must take note of it - that the provision should be declared unconstitutional and that a necessary regulation should be put to the bench, which we otherwise support. We therefore ask that you change the wording of the term 'entity' and specify it. In other words, provide for specific categories and types of associations of persons to be included in the new framework. Indeed, you could well use the wording of Article 2 of the Income Tax Code, which makes a clear and straightforward reference to organisations, cooperatives and especially to foreign companies, where the real problem of dirty money is usually identified. With regard to Amendment 1370 by the Civil Aviation Service once again we have the negative development at the last moment, given the assignment of the fourteen airports, to come late and ask for building permits or other radio aid permits to be issued within 14 days. We are negative precisely because, once again, it proves that it is not possible, with the government's responsibility, for the services to fulfil the obligations which Greek ministers have committed themselves to. With regard to Amendment No 1372 we are negative because it actually circumvents Law 2190 on recruitment for fixed-term public service contractors. It shows once again the old-fashioned conception and attitude of the government, as it treats the recruited and servants of the government as enclaved future voters. It is essentially the government's perception that the state is a feud. On the other hand, we could well have our positive opinion on a provision which would extend this regulation to the very shortest possible period of time for jobs to be declared on the basis of the ADP law and not as you suggest. Finally, Amendment 1373 relates mainly to the Housing and Reintegration programme. I have to say to you that the homeless housing and reintegration programme is an extremely effective tool, which is why we are positive about this amendment - to address the important social problem that has been exacerbated in the crisis in our country. In 2014, this institutional framework was created by us, from our resignation, with the responsibility of Vassilis Kegeroglou, and because of its completeness it continues to apply until today. But we do not understand why you are choosing to extend this programme until 31 March 2018. We propose to extend this arrangement until the end of next year, until December 31, 2018, so that we do not have the homeless to forget within March, waiting once again for the government's possible charity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Maniotis. Mr. Gerovasili, the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, cleanliness and guardianship are irrational needs for operators, needs relating to health protection and safety at the workplace, as well as to the areas that are the cultural heritage of our country. The provision comes urgently in this bill in order to resolve the issues of employment of this staff and to resolve the issues of the next competitive process in a specific way. It is known that the contracts of staff serving in various administrative bodies were extended by legislative provisions until 31/12/2017. Therefore, given the Parliament's workload in the next few days, it was only today that we were able to introduce the regulation. Through this amendment, the cleanliness and storage staff employed by 30-6-2017 are paid for, so that these workers and the Christmas days will not be paid. Ladies and gentlemen, it is well known to everyone that the framework that established labour relations in the public sector for a number of years has been extremely problematic. Especially in the field of cleaning and storage, the situation was chaotic. Thus, these fragmented contracts of different kinds were indeed a state of insecurity for the workers themselves, but at the same time also a privileged field of customer and ruptured arrangements, both in central administration and in selfgovernment. In this context, and under suffocating budgetary pressure, the government had to deal with extensions for a period of time with cleaning and storage services. This promptly dealt with the matter. Of course, no solution was given. Although all these restrictions remain within this suffocating framework, we are trying to resolve the issues of contractors. Apart from completing the mapping of all these relationships in the public sector, we have asked with circular in the previous days for the ministries to plan their temporary staff by 31 January, saying that if these requests come after that date, it will probably be possible to implement them. This is because we must not be fragmented, so that we can finally streamline this framework in parallel procedures, which we are doing and seem and restore ourselves to permanent employment relationships, wherever possible and where the workers serve real and lasting needs. This was also seen in the counties' rewarding services. You saw yesterday's announcement on the restoration of the five-year term of fire extinguishers, who in the next few years are permanently consecrated with a plan that we will draw up together with the Ministry of Civil Protection. The policy of staff management is now being formulated for 2018 with the recruitment rule - departures with a ratio of 1 to 3. These restrictions leave far too narrow a margin for recruiting staff with regard to private law indefinitely. At the same time, we are faced with all of this, which I described before, with regard to cleaning and storage services. I would remind you that this practice has often been judged in the case-law of the Court of Justice that it affects the rights of workers. Our aim, therefore, was and remains to recruit staff with stable employment relationships, as long as they meet fixed and continuous needs. So, in view of all this, this amendment is coming to the attention of the Ministries, supervised bodies and independent authorities, to recruit cleanliness and storage staff with a fixed-term work relationship of eighteen months' duration. It is a regulation which clearly moves within the framework of the Constitution, Article 103, which allows the joint legislator to determine the duration of fixedterm private law contracts. The eighteen months, of course, do not constitute permanentisation but a perfectly practical and sufficient period of time to address these irreversible needs and, at the same time, to reduce the bureaucratic and budgetary costs created by these repeated competitions. And we all know that six to eight-month SAPA procedures for someone to cooperate for eight months, which of course creates a chaotic environment. For all these reasons, I urge you to vote in favour of the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u40	Thank you very much to the Minister. I would ask Mrs Kundura, Minister for Tourism, to take the floor for the amendment for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u41	Mr President, thank you very much. In accordance with paragraphs 1 and 2, the new organisation of the Ministry of Tourism, 127/2017 FEK A157, which provides for regional services of tourism and educational units, has been drawn up, signed and sent to the Council of State, prior to the adoption of the CYYY to determine the criteria for placing within the meaning of the separate operational unit. This resulted in the above regional services of the Ministry of Tourism, which are depicted in the new organisation, without internal structure, not having the necessary administrative autonomy, to carry out the competitive procedures laid down in the relevant provisions. It is therefore absolutely essential to introduce the proposed provision in order to resolve the problems of dysfunction that have arisen but, more importantly, to address the extremely urgent needs of the regional services of the Ministry of Tourism by supply and so on. The aim is to facilitate these specific services so that they can implement a number of current and ongoing practical issues of management relations with third parties, provision of services, suppliers, conservators, etc. They also purchase oil and all relevant supplies, of course, depending on the budget available to them each time the principal authorizing officer is the Ministry. A brief procedure for drawing up and conducting procedural contracts concerning the supply of goods and services for the benefit of one of the more orderly operation of the regional services of the Ministry of Tourism is being achieved and thus provides the legal basis necessary for it. At the same time, the central service of the Ministry is discharged where possible. Paragraph 3 concerns the functioning of two different boards, i.e. a staff member only for teachers and one for the administrative staff of the Ministry. In practice, this was very difficult and dysfunctional, but it also created many problems in its composition. The proposed arrangement simplifys the administrative procedure by abolishing the service council for the educational staff of ASE, IEK and the tour schools of the Ministry of Tourism and their respective subordinate to the Board of Directors of the Ministry's Administrative Staff, since they are five-membered of all three directors, where one of them is the Director of Tourism Education, will change the members present and will in one case be made by the administrative and other staff. This ensures the equal treatment of staff and the proper functioning of the organic units of the Ministry of Tourism. Also, in the same part there was an empty law that did not define how teachers' movements are made when there are needs either to the central service of tourist education or to the educational establishment. So this is also the case. With regard to paragraph 4, it is clearly a typographic error, a mistaken listing to the Organisation of the Ministry of Tourism, and the title of Directorate-General for Tourism has been corrected, which has inadvertently entered "General Directorate for Tourism and Development", while the right is "General Directorate for Tourism". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u42	Thank you very much, Minister. I would ask the President of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece, Dimitris Koutsouba, to come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, at the moment outside the Ministry of Labour, from Maximou, outside the House, in the center of Athens, but also in dozens of cities this afternoon, they are demonstrating fighters of thousands of people. I would therefore like, in my speech today, in Parliament, to land you from space and satellites on some more earthly issues, on issues that have erupted this storm of reactions from workers across the country, which cannot be solved by repression measures. Gentlemen of government, you behave like the thief who gets caught in the act and leaves the thieves down to come back. So do you. Like the thief you brought at night the amendment to strike the strike right, to an unrelated bill and night you dropped it again to bring it a few days later. We've learned you now. Of course the previous Minister for Labour, as we all remember, had brought Easter and voted for the law that put gravel on social security. And the inexperienced Mrs Ahtsioglou, as several of your colleagues here call it in the halls of this House, proves - we say - quite experienced in scaming and dirty work. But without the hotel owner, gentlemen of the government, there will be no cemetery silence in this country. Because in this country there's the KKE, there's a class movement and it won't leave you in a green cry. Your workers have taken your ass, and those who haven't taken you so far are slowly beginning to realize things. They don't save you from slogans, advertising spots, or social dividends from bloody surpluses. You are just baptizing what is a good thing for monopolies and without delay doing so. That is why you have agreed in good time with the quartet to extend the auctioning of popular dwellings, along with the criminalisation of the action against them, together with new privatisations, to strike the axe to social benefits. All of this adds to everything that you have already voted on and will certainly apply from the beginning of the year, such as, for example, the scrubbing of the ESS. You disguise a lot of fairy tales that "the memorials end", that "we go out to the clearing". Now, how can the memorials end and remain in force all the laws passed by the first, second, third, fourth memorial, only you know that. As if the memorials were something outside the anti-linguistic laws and measures. How do the memorandums end and have adopted measures for after 2019, for 2020, for tax-free measures, pensions, bloody surpluses by 2060? And, anyway, the memoranda is here and they remain because this is the imperialist European Union with its memorials, the European semesters, the balanced budgets that apply to all its Member States. What exactly is the law that has been acted on, which Mr Tsipras also advertises with the new role of the counterfeiter he has taken? Is it fair to ask those who have paid and paid thousands of euros more taxes, insurance premiums and reduced social benefits to be met with reimbursements of a few euros, which are not even enough to cover the costs of a few weeks? Is it fair to lose the worker, the unemployed, the self-employed professional, the house he built with the labors of life, because he can no longer pay the banks? You started the auctions by pulling out the hammer the residence of thousands of people's families. Everything else, for the villas and the rest, is ashes in the eyes. But that's where you work again without the hotel owner. Is it fair to tax the Greek people over and above the objectives set by the agreements on primary surpluses? Are the tax exemptions and tax reliefs that were raised for groups in the year that passed? Is the reductions in new pensions fair to more than 20%, so that the ECA today appears surplusy and thus reduced the state pension fund? Is heavy taxation fair to employees, self-employed, small and medium-sized farmers, which has been imposed in recent years by laws of all governments, the ravages which the current government has maintained and extended? Is there a fair increase in indirect taxation and increases in VAT, even on remote islands, which led to increases in indirect taxation of nearly EUR 1,000 per family? Is the consistently reduced funding of hospitals as a whole fair, while the needs increase sharply, the towel by 900 million of welfare funds, the slaughter of disabled pensions and allowances? Is it fair to cut the ESS to the low pensioners and the axe to the advance benefits? Fairly, in this unfair exploitation system, it's what's good for big capital. And you have proved yourself the fastest pistol of capital and the European Union since the SYRIZA-ANEL coexistence, even when a world of pure, progressive, left-wing, invested hope and expectations in this government, even with a cold heart. We had said that you would be the government of dirty work, which would not only abolish the memorials, not only would it not bring relief to the tortured people, but would continue with the same policy. In fact, it would also take those anti-grassroots measures carried by the previous governments, both of which carried the downfall and retreat of anti-grass rule decades, were not able to take, of course - and from the pressure of the labour and the folk movement. Our predictions did not have to do with any divining capacity, but with the knowledge of historical experience, which says that every time the ruling class finds them dark, they take on various opportunistic, turbulent social democratic parties to unleash it. This role has been taken by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government for three years. Of course, we must recognize that your willingness and determination to serve the filthy plans will remain a proverb. From this point of view, you are worth beyond the awards and credits given to you by representatives of the various elites of imperialism, from France and Germany, to the United States and Trump. Of course, not only do you deserve these credits, but you do everything you can to overcome yourself. And where one says that "I've seen everything anyway with this SYRIZA - ANEL Government", you do something that goes even further up the record of political stripping, misery, in which you are champions. Your last achievement was last night's amendment setting the most sacred, the greatest, the most unnecessarily right for workers, the right to strike. And you even brought it like a thief, like a cradle, into an unrelated bill to vote for a loom in the House. The fact that you packed it for a few days doesn't launder you. Really, what do you think? That with such scoundrels, with such scams as to say sincerely, would you avoid or avoid the outcry, will you avoid the workers' anger, or will you avoid the dishonesty and humiliation that will follow you forever, after you dared to mock, to trample the sacrifices and blood that the working class has shed in this country for that right? You are very small indeed, gentlemen of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, but also of any other parties who dare to vote for this strike, dare to do so with the struggles that the workers themselves have given to gain these rights. Sooner or later, you will probably stay in history as a graphy, as a delusion, a caricature of what was called the "Left", as representatives of other parties remained, such as that late-start Laskaris, who said that by law it would abolish the class struggle. The amendment you have put forward and withdrawn to bring it back later, since you have thus promised your partners, essentially paves the way for a ban on the right to strike. In fact, you are doing this for primary unions, that is to say, for workplaces, where bones are broken, for employers' arbitrariness, for terrorism, for extortion, for workers who are obliged to be informed simply and for them to be discussed collectively, even in conspiracy, as if they were under deep-minded conditions. It's actually to make a simple assembly or a mobilization or strike. You say that 50%+1 is not a problem for the quorum. And we ask: Do you, gentlemen of the government, rule with 50%+1 of the Greek people? Are the governments in Greece elected by 50%+1 of the total? 22% is represented, if you have exactly calculated it, on the basis of those who have the right to vote. And with this poor 22%, which is your real rate, which has, of course, become much smaller today, you are bringing a law that requires workers, from the workers in the ghettos who are working to have 50%+1 of all their members present at the assembly and the polls, under the blackmail and in front of the large employer, the threats, to decide a strike, a mobilisation, that is to say, to claim their right. You are a ruthless government that has no suspension in order to serve the interests of capital. Your executives reach the point of saying that they supposedly strengthen democracy in the unions. You broke every record. BSE is sure to cry out of excitement right now. Such a servant didn't imagine in their craziest dreams. That is why you take all these credits I have said before, of your partners in the European Union. That is why you are quickly closing all the anti-grassroots, anti-grass reviews. And don't tell us again that you are fighting big interests, big media and so on. In your faces they have, especially for this kind of business. Since yesterday the tabling of the amendment was announced, there was no sounding at all at all at the best, while at the worst we had been stubborn and the brass of some people. No titles, no headlines, just "RIZOSOPAT" or any of them. Neither any other party made any announcement. In order not to blame New Democracy, the truth is that its officials are asking you not to take it back, but to vote for it here and now. You're pulling them out - you see - and out of a difficult position. They're normal. And why not? After doing the constant pursuit, the dream of capital that was and is the blow to the strike right, so that there is a cemetery silence in the workplace, not to move a leaf, can be enforced the working middle ages that you and the previous ones have instituted. You're giving the bosses tests to stay in the government chair. And you tell them that beyond the carrot, you can use the whip as well. Until of course you get over all this dirty work and then throw you off like a squeeze of lemon worms to bet on new Central Right horses, Central Left and go say. It doesn't matter what they say. For this reason for a week you have been giving dividends of wood and authoritarianism throughout Greece. When in the pacifism for auctions, when in the Ministry of Education against students claiming food and housing, when against workers and trade unions, such as supermarkets, ex-Karupidis, who claim wagedly eighteen months and go by saying. We are telling you again, the right to a blood strike and sacrifice is non-negotiable and anyone who dares to touch it will find their workers in total and their class movement. And you're deeply mistaken if you think this abortion will be applied in practice. The workers themselves will cancel it with their organization and struggle, as the workers will cancel every attempt to block their struggle, social progress and send every political representative of this rotten exploitation system to the unsavoury at some point. We call on the workers to strengthen their struggle, to be on the streets today and every day, to concentrate the strike gatherings, the mobilisations of the next few days, at the height of the pan-Hellenic general strike on 14 December. As for you, you have a secure place at the counties of the people. And this people will punish you, and we believe that much sooner than you hope. It is clear that when you dare bring this or another amendment, we will table a request for a roll-call vote and let everyone assume their responsibilities, if there is a bit of a pint left.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u44	Thank you very much Mr. Koutsuba. We shall proceed with the list of speakers. Mr Ioannis Michelovanakis has the floor now. We will have two speakers and one parliamentary representative later. Mr Shahinides and Mr Loverdos have been asked for the floor. Here, Mr. Micholonnakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, space policy is indeed linked to high-value products. There are already a hundred businesses with 200 million cigarettes and two thousand workers. Four Greek universities also produce small satellites with great success. It concerns the defence of the country, weather phenomena, flood prevention, border control, fires and agricultural crops. We secure positions in Space and we win exchanges. We have so far given the European Union 14 million a year. And what's going on? We didn't collect anything at all. Seventy-five small and medium-sized enterprises provide their services abroad. We have spent millions of euros in European programmes to date. So we begin an integrated space policy, with the establishment of the Greek Space Agency that follows. The transponders of the existing satellite will be used by the Armed Forces, by the NSA, by the Greek Police. The initial contract of the Greek State expired in 2021. It had to be renewed until 2018. HELLAS SAT has made requests since 2010. If we didn't do what we're doing today, we'd lose our rights. Because if a country has a orbital position in space and does not use it for three years, it loses its rights. That's the importance of this bill today. And then at least forty states claim this position. In our renewed convention today, Greece is being strengthened east on 39o, with the creation of a Monitoring Committee and the Committee on Receipt, which has already been set up. In this way, we guarantee special guarantees in favour of the public, which were not in the previous contract. It is planned that disputes will be resolved in the administrative courts instead of arbitration in Geneva. And in Geneva what does it mean? It means huge cost. Even in destruction or unsatisfactory service provided, another satellite is provided. Equipment is also guaranteed for five years free. In exchange for three terrestrial hub satellites, three satellite dishes and two hundred terminals. With the new contract, we get seventeen transponders. For seventeen years they had neglected to take the third transponder. We also succeed in getting six transponders, as against three. The object of the contract is to grant rights to a track position and associated radio frequencies at the request of the States concerned. Requests shall be submitted to the International Telecommunications Union. In contrast to terrestrial radio frequencies, which are not undone, which are not eliminated, may remain unused, satellites may be undone, cancelled and modified. Because of the situation, the situation and because of the space policy linked to high-value products, as I have said, one understands the importance of voting in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr. Michelonnakis. Mrs Vulture has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, the issue we are discussing today is another proof that the SYRIZA and ANEL Government have broken all the records of propaganda and psychosocial policy. Besides, the government goes from record to record. In time of record he closed the review, sold out PPC, delivers the Greeks' loans to foreign funds. In time, all this. Electronic auctions started on the same day as receipts to blur water. Because, as you know, lottery is one, lottery and the other. All the public property was included in the superstition. Measures have been adopted for 2019 and 2020. Hey, how can they not give you prizes after all this? They'll make a picture of you! Anything they bring you, you sign it! That's why it's all happening in a record time. Of course, after you have signed it all, you will have closed all the evaluations, you will have agreed - you have already done it - for memoranda by 2022 and supervision by 2060, then you will be out of the memoranda and the IMF will also be expelled. For your days too, it is all perfect, amazing for the first time! Mr. Pappa, a year now you're making our head dizzy with the conquest of the Space. Travel to exotic destinations and other destinations. You couldn't have built this satellite either. You're standing on top of him. You even went to Cannes in February to see him - he says - before entering packages to travel to French Guiana. And then you went to French Guiana to be present, ungratefully June 29, in launching what you present about as the work of your hands. You have effectively monitored the launch of the Arab satellite interest. After his launch, you voluntarily announced that Greece sends a message that it is recovering, that it is recovering in a field that has been abandoned for years and that after many years of absence and inertia Greece is back dynamically in Space. The truth, ladies and gentlemen, is that Greece has been in Space since 2003 and has never been absent. The only thing that happened was the sale by OTE of HELLAS SAT to ‘ARAB SAT’ in 2013 compared to the amount of EUR 208 million, while already on 5 June 2014 the launch of ‘HELLAS SAT 3’ had been announced for 2016-year ending ‘HELLAS SAT 2’ - and in 2017 the one that would be launched was ‘HELLAS SAT 4’. If, in other words, you had a contribution, it was probably a delay. Therefore, Greece was in Space. As of 5 June 2014, it was announced that the Cypriot company, which is a subsidiary of ‘ARAB SAT’, will maintain the most important ground bases in Kacorazia in Cyprus and Koropi in Greece. These are from 2014. And you come and celebrate? And I heard colleagues from other parties say, "Hurry on where the facilities are in Coropi"! I'll testify for this telegram of the Athenian Agency from where all of this comes from that for which you celebrate. Since 2014 these were agreed. And all you're saying is that you've been adjusting now, they've been on the way to adjust it ever since. During the debate in committee you told us that OTE had misguided the satellite. On the 7th of July last, you were told - I will also present this - that HELLAS SAT was sold out to a transnational organisation and that was an investment that all citizens paid for. On June 29, the head of your Press Office Mr Christofordis, former newspaper "HELLAS SAT", told us by announcing that in New Democracy the satellite was sold along with OTE to DEUTSCHE TELECOM, that the ownership of the German public-public-owned OTE sold HELLAS SAT, bringing very significant economic benefits for the German State itself - complained - and the physical presence of the satellite control centre in Greece was threatened. To sum up, - says your partner - the German OTE gained major benefits, diving an investment, etc. I'll testify to that, too. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Sophia Vultesis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So you're blaming OTE for national treason, which you somehow corrected? If I remember correctly, the German OTE had requested the sale by the Government. It was an OTE decision. And if I remember correctly, OTE administration has not changed over your days. On the contrary, you work well with them, take part in conferences and have close communication and cooperation with the same administration. So tell us: did OTE sell out and thereby jeopardise the Greek strategic interests? Because if that had happened, in his tens of conversations with Mrs Merkel, Mr. Tsipras should have said so. They can't happen both, and OTE sold out and threatened Greek interests and be close friends and partners of yours. But I forgot! Where you found us as mercanists - Tsipras used to say the words, "Or with Merkel or the people" and "Go back madeame Merkel" and Kammenos said the 4th Reich and Tsolakoglu - now the Germans are your friends! Tsipras sends sms to Schultz's phone to ask him to cooperate with Merkel. I mean, excuse me, but sms to Schultz, so Mr. Chipras can work with Merkel? Anguish about the survival of the 4th Reich by those calling us Cholacoglou and donors? Isn't there a shame? You have no shame at all, that is to say, "Okay, boy, but I can't do that now. I've been swearing Germany for so many years, so far I swear, one another. I can't do it." Can't you? Can't you show anything that you have a shame? In other words, the latter has a shame. Now go out open, put red carpets on Fuchtel, talk all day with Merkel, intercede with Schultz for Merkel, and I see no shame on your part. Of course, that's no accident. It happens to some creatures who want to survive. To survive you have lost, if ever, every trace of shame. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Buddhism. Mr Christos Katsotis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. Gentlemen of the government, you have put the New Democracy in a very difficult position. You have left no requirement of capital to implement it, although as the government itself and its members, together, say, you will vote for the amendment to the strike. They're saying that. You have also reached out to everyone: BSE, SETE, the European Union, the International Monetary Fund, business groups. At this time you are giving tests of law and order by suppressing struggles, arresting strikers, and by strengthening the repression as a whole. You are giving examinations of democratic rights and trade liberties. The Government of dirty missions, as we have described it, in addition to the anti-government framework it is attempting to implement its commitment to large capital, to limit the trade union rights and freedoms of the labour movement. This is how it wants to ensure the conditions for the implementation of the selection of business groups, as expressed by BSE and its other associations, that we do not turn back, as they say, to the earlier situation. That is to say, not to be forced, under the workers' struggles, to sign collective agreements with increases, not to be forced to a minimum wage, without separation of new and old, at EUR 751. On the other hand, they seek to stabilise, to simulate, as you have committed yourself to codifying labour legislation for 2018, and to continue restructuring, as you call the major reversals in labour, insurance and in every other aspect of the lives of our workers and our people. Here, then, for whom the crisis, as you said, was an opportunity: For capital, which ensures cheap labour power and requires further armour, putting the struggles of workers and the people on the wall. What kind of fairness do you talk about? That is why the employer, business groups, to increase profitability, to confiscate people's homes, to tax, to cuts in wages and pensions, which do not end with the abolition of collective agreements, which will also be for a long time if workers do not overturn this policy through their struggles. The legislation provides that the presence of at least 1/2 of the financially regulated members of the primary trade union, business, industry and whatever the primary organisation is called is required for the discussion and decision on the proclamation of a strike. In order to implement the requirements of BSE and other capital associations to tighten up the strikes framework, the Government is more than doubled by the number of workers required for a primary union to proclaim a strike. Thus, while under the current regime the majority of 1/3 in the first general meeting up to 1/5 in the third general meeting of normalised financial members was required, the majority of 1⁄2, 50%+1 will now be required. No matter where the government strikes the working class at the primary level of organization within the company, that is, where employers' terrorism is more pronounced, arbitrary, threats, pressures, and even more so given that there is no discrimination, as I have said before, with the primary branch unions. The government with this amendment is paving the way for it to become practically impossible to declare a strike by sectoral trade unions with a large number of members, by many businesses. And all of this is legislation by a government that has been voted on, as our Secretary-General said earlier, about 22% of the electorate. This is a decisive step, for the full extinction of the strike right, when already with the current framework nine out of ten strikes are considered illegal, abusive or both together. 95% of the courts, according to investigation, judge the strikes illegally, in this context, today. Imagine what will happen with this framework that you want to create. Following the collective redundancies, the eternal overpowering of business contracts to the end of the Programme, as they say, - but it will go further - the release of Sunday holidays, the legalisation of retreat, and even in its harder version, wage compensation, the reduction of the protective framework for trade unionists, the trial period during which compensation has not been paid, which has taken place a year from two months, the generalization of flexible forms of work, the employer's and managerial right to the wardrobe, and the overturning of decision-making on the strike. Such periods, characterised by the anti-corruption raids of the capital governments, attempting to remove the weapon of the workers' strike, have remained in the history of the labour movement. One of these will also be the period of dirty missions of the left satellite - due to the bill - the business groups with large-range missiles launching, trying to strike the heart of the labour movement, which is the right to strike. If that is what you believe, we tell you that, like the previous ones, you will get a dynamic response from the whole working class from the popular movement. Follow the period of Law 330 of Laskaris, who wanted to abolish the fight against classes and Article 4 of the PASOK after that, which set such conditions, 50% + 1 of the workers to make the decision by the unions on strike. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government, which defines itself as the Left, squashing over the hard struggles, the principles and values of thousands of pioneer workers and other fighters, with amazing willingness to stand up against the struggles and sacrifices of the working class, by the rights and freedoms conquered with blood - the literality - and comes, among other things, to implement the main requirement of capital for the creation of the conditions of submission, subjugation of the labour movement, overthrowing the trade union law, with even greater obstacles to proclaiming the strike, demanding the working class. This period during which you rinseed the New Democracy and the PASOK will remain as a period of SYRIZA - ANEL or as a period of Katrugalo or as an Achtsioglou or as a papa period, if that was the amendment - I am sure you also said that you did not want to connect your name, rather you might not want it - but it will remain in history in more black letters, because it will be mentioned as the work of the so-called Left.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u50	Thank you very much Mr Katsotis. I beg your pardon, Mr Shahinides, for a minute, the Minister has asked the floor to support his amendment. The Deputy Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Mr. Papagelopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u51	With regard to Mr Maniatis' point of view, to clarify the term legal entity, I consider her welcome and thank him, as I thank him for every contribution to the improvement and progress of the parliamentary procedure. I would like to say that the term legal entity is specified precisely in the Code of Taxation and in the 4th Directive, to which the explanatory statement refers. If there is a problem, however, I would remind you that there is a legislative committee dealing with the transposition of the 4th Directive and that is where it will be resolved. Nevertheless, I want it to be written in the Minutes, that the term legal entity is specified in the Code of Taxation and in the 4th Directive. In any case, I consider Mr Maniotis' point to be very correct, and that is why I would like to make it clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u52	Yes, fiscal and administrative, not legal.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u53	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u54	Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u55	I want to ask the Minister a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u56	Of course, if I can answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u57	Mr Maniotis has made this observation on behalf of all of us, so, Minister, I would like to ask a very clear question on this. The 'entity' must translate something. If you can, tell us which term we translate with the term entity. If we have room - and I think you have - you can change it now, here. Because we have exactly from the Code of Income Tax, Article 2, case 6 of the Code, reference not to the term entity - I will read it to you - but reference to organisations, cooperatives, particularly offshore companies, where the problem of dirty money is usually identified. And because that's what you want, does it have to be adapted to the already known terminology? Because the term entity doesn't tell us anything, maybe it's confusing us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u58	Thank you very much. The Minister has the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u59	I would prefer to wait for the Legislative Committee, which ends its work and incorporates the Fourth Directive. That's why I'm avoiding amending it now. I am simply making the clarification and I repeat that I find Mr Manatis and your remark very useful. I would like to make it clear that the term is mentioned there, but the committee of legislation which regulates it ends.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u60	Thank you very much. The Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Shahinides, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. I shall refer to the amendments and to some issues of current topicality. I come to the amendment with a general number of 1367 and a special 16. Currently, the Ministry of Digital Policy attempts in the second article to redefine the unregulated regime, which prevailed in the broadcasting landscape. It is known that the PASOK and New Democracy governments, which acted in previous years, legislated in the interest of the 'large sharks' of the media, effectively giving them the frequencies, so that the channels of interacting can be broadcast. However, today SYRIZA, following a series of legislative initiatives, is coming with an article of a late amendment to change the whole regulatory framework, which regulates the burning issue of licensing, so that it is supposedly a sound competition phenomenon. We all know that the part of the pie for the media is too big and, apparently, the Minister goes to share it in his own personal view and party need. With regard to the first article, it is clear that it finds a routine feasibility, after the possibility of seconding permanent officials or officials under contracts of an indefinite duration for the administration of the ‘ECOMM S.A.’ has been established. For once, the intention of the coup d'état to serve the needs of enlargement of its party army is confirmed. We are voting against this amendment because, on the one hand, it is a delay; on the other, it concerns a very important area of public life and, therefore, such legislative initiatives are not tolerated to go through with amendments. As regards Amendment No 1368 and Amendment No 17, this amendment attempts to speed up the procedures with regard to the conclusion of contractual relations between the administration of the Ministry of Tourism and third parties, who are providers of different services. In particular, under Article 1, the administrations of the Higher Schools of Tourism Education, the Institutes of Vocational Training and the Tour Schools are given the opportunity to carry out the procedure for the award and performance of public contracts relating to the supply of goods and services to meet their needs. The contract will be signed by the Head of the training team concerned. In addition, it is also laid down that the payment and clearance of supplies intended for retraining programmes are financed by the Public Investment Programme. The report by the General Accounting Office of the State shows that no economic benefit will arise for the Greek State. However, it is noted that the responsibilities of the above Schools of Tourism Education, the Institutes of Vocational Training and the Tour Schools are extended. We are voting against because it is clear that such experiments are not intended to bring about improvement in this area. There is also no clear financial information on the budget allocated by the Ministry concerned to the fulfilment of these provisions. At the same time, however, Minister, there is a risk that irregularities will occur with the leaders of the above mentioned tourist schools. The amendment with a general number of 1369 and a special 18 relates to the amendment of Article 51 of L.3691/2008 on the prevention and repression of money laundering and terrorist financing and other provisions. The substantive amendment concerns the introduction into the context of the prosecution of the above-mentioned law of the legal entity. Theoretically, this is all done to break the tax evasion in which various offshore companies, who, taking advantage of the law's tolerance, find in Greece a kind of tax haven. It is, however, clear that the government also has side-effects, since, as is clear from the content of the definition, which I am referring to above, people will also be persecuted, who in no way fulfil the subjective and objective assumptions of economic crimes contained in the spirit and substance of Law No3691/2008. Amendment to General Number 1370 and Special 19: The interests of the ‘FRAPORT’, in which the SYRIZA Memorandum of Understanding granted the fourteen regional airports. In particular, it is foreseen that the Civil Aviation Service will continue to issue construction permits for the execution of the projects that the ‘FRAPORT’ would like to do at the sold-out airports. The Golden Dawn has taken a clear and clear place. We are against all sorts of extradition of supposed lenders and we are voting against any legislation directly insulting our national interests, which, of course, include the assets of the Greek people. Amendment number 1372 and specific number 21: In a detailed explanatory statement, the competent ministers shall establish the eighteen-month term intake of cleaning staff under a fixed-term private law contract. This staff will be employed in ministries and other services of public interest. Here is a clear and unprecedented manipulation of the particular human resources, the majority of which are known to be part of the SYRIZA party army. Let us inform the Government that photographic legislation on a number of workers certainly does not solve the very serious problem of unemployment, which is plagued by Greece. It will be good for the government to deal effectively with the workers as a whole and not with party identity as a priority. Really, these avacans donated you by the troika on their last visit to the protectorate you are commanding, Minister? Amendment with a general number of 1373 and a special 22: It is another handwritten amendment, which establishes the possibility of crediting funds to the following legal persons under public law: Social Welfare Centre, National Centre for Solidarity, Blind Education and Rehabilitation and National Deaf Foundation. With the proposed amendment, the above-mentioned legal persons are empowered to design and implement innovative programmes, actions and other actions by transferring the necessary funds from the Ministry to the budgets of these legal persons. This is an amendment - trick. No references shall be made to economic elements or specific actions. The classic commitment now to concrete economic data following the adoption of a relevant joint ministerial decision has become provocative. We also disagree with this amendment, since in this case there is an intention to serve party obligations. The biggest challenge is that in the first phase, you pass by law your order and take care of the further decisions after a celebration. No, gentlemen! If you want to be a serious government, check to legislate accordingly. With regard to Amendment No 1371 and number 20, which you have also withdrawn, you should give us some explanations, Mr Minister, because just two days ago the Head of Labour of the New Democracy, Mr Brutsis, said, as the Vice-President of the New Democracy did, that he would vote for the amendment with both hands. In fact, in his statement on radio show, he said that the change of trade union law was one of the bills that the Samara - Venizelos government wanted to bring in in 2014, as one of the prerequisites for the closure of the then fifth evaluation of the second memorandum. Explain to us, Minister: Since you would also have the support of the New Democracy, what are the reasons why you were forced to withdraw this amendment? As far as I have seen from the position taken by the speakers so far, the only ones who were opposed to this amendment were us and another ones. After you had the majority to pass it, you withdrew it. You did well to withdraw it. Sadly, however, you'll bring her back to a next bill. Regarding the Erdogan visit, to which our special speaker has referred, the measures to be taken will go beyond those of McCron's visit, even of Obama. The sultan brings a small private army with him. In fact, unfortunately, we have samples of the criminal behavior of people accompanying him from his visit to the United States. We saw how they faced ordinary citizens who wanted to react and declare that this man is unwanted throughout the earth. You come today, as our special speaker said, to wash away, of course, selectively from a dictator who has been elected by democratic procedures. Truly, what is your position in the way he handles journalists and political opponents in his country? You're turning red carpets on him. In fact, we don't know what else it's going to require. After two hundred years of the 1921 Revolution and an eighty-four years from the liberation of Athens, "Turkish troops" - in and out of import - will be around the Acropolis. In fact, they'll be raided up to snipers. You will also give him gifts, as you are accustomed to doing to foreign official delegations. What are these gifts? The Turkish newspaper "AKSAM" tells us: "The cracks of Athens are about to hand over to the pasha and the six of the eight Turkish officials who fled to Greece after the failed coup." You're doing well. The only good thing would be if you could ban him, Minister, access to our Thrace. Unfortunately, he just made a recommendation from Mr Kotzias not to have an open event. Therefore, it allows him any event in Thrace, in a very important part of Greece, where, unfortunately, the Consulate of Komotini has found appropriate ground, with the policies you have conducted and has given a great deal to the Turkish "Sultan" in order to claim. There was also a brief joke on a conference by a non-governmental organization for international transparency, Transparency International, on transparency. So far, that's all right. After all, this is also the object of this non-governmental organisation. But who are speakers at this conference on transparency? It is Stournaras and the "orphan" of Simitis and Papademos, George Pagoula. Do you know who will be a guest star? It will be a party leader, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, a party that has not offered anything at all about transparency in this country. As I referred to the head of the New Democracy, we were impressed by his statement on the non-participation of relatives in a possible future governmental pattern. Let's start with himself. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. I would also like to close with an interview, which took place two days ago in the newspaper "DIMMOCRATIA" and none of the wings mentioned it. Here it was once again degraded the Left as a whole about the Polytechnics. An extremely interesting double interview on the subject of the greatest myth of Metapolistism, the myth of the Polytechnic, was published two days ago in "Dimouratia". On the one hand, he recalls and reveals Kyriakos Stamelos - and here you pay attention - a member of the Coordinating Committee of the Students of Polytechnics, who did not cash out his participation in the events on the side of the winners - as opposed to too many others - and on the other hand Michael Gonelas, the leader of the battle tank. What did those two say? First of all, they agreed that there were no dead in the field of the Polytechnic and that those who were dead outside the Polytechnic were killed by bullets of free snipers, unknown identity and intentions. However, it wasn't about military or police officers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u62	Dertilis what was he?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u63	Mr President, please do not interrupt me. So they were probably provocators on an orderly mission from strangers. Then they both agreed on the strange tolerance, which has been experienced by the Marquezine Government - and that is important - in the operation of the Polytechnics radio station - the main rapporteur of which was the well-known Maria Damanaki - which could be stopped immediately. But also the fact that no anti-American slogan was heard from this station makes us impression. Also, the two interviewers agreed that if the government were to cut off power and water from the beginning, the whole story would have a glorious end, long before the fateful night. Who prevented the Marquezine government from doing all this? Maybe some outside agents who had a different purpose. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Another element - and I am closing down, Mr President - which emerges according to Stamelos is that the Communist Party, which had originally designated first-time agents and provocators as the first ones occupied by the Polytechnics, withdrew its executives from the premises on the third day of the occupation, several hours before the evacuation operation. However, the most important point of the interview is "the same", that is to say whether, judging from the result, the uprising benefited or harmed the country. In this respect, Kyriakos Stamelos did not chew his words and said, “Who can deny that if the events of the Polytechnic had not happened, we would probably not have lost Cyprus? So, was it, of course, in the intentions of the rebels to get Cyprus lost? No, but there was such a flow in her exploitation...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u64	Mr. Comrade...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u65	I'll be done in two seconds. “...because we didn’t drop Papadopoulos, we brought Ioannides. And Ioannides didn't fall alone. He fell because of the events of Cyprus. So an spontaneous movement turned into a lever against the patron. I have no sense of degradation of the insurrection, I just want to say the truth." The conclusions of yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u66	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, thirty-nine students and students and three school attendants from the 1st Municipal School of Agia Marina Heraklion Crete. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ms Theodora Megalonikou, Independent MEP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that we are discussing a bill today, which can give the Greek economy a chance of breathing. Before I refer to this bill, I would like - but the relevant ministers are absent - to explain to me: these opening of the beach of Salamis, which are today made by the Minister for Trade Shipping and by the Deputy Minister, to what is due? What kind of beach are they inaugurating? A beach that didn't exist or a beach that wasn't cleaned? Here are all the publications from today's press and I'll testify to them. Meanwhile, in a question I had submitted to the Minister for Health, I have not received an answer as to whether the beaches are suitable for swimming. I guess plates were supposed to be on forbidden. Tell the mayors. I haven't got an answer. I'll testify to that, too. Then, in my question to the Minister of Interior about what measures he is going to take, he sent me an answer, which says: "In response to your above question, "Beams to red from the oilfield", due to your competence, we know that the Ministry of Interior has requested information from the Decentralised Administration of Attica under No 37045/1-11-2017 document and as soon as the reply comes, the Greek Parliament will be informed with a new document". We have no answer. In fact, he has notifications to the Ministry, etc. Secondly, I also received a document from the Ministry of Commerce, Shipping, on the pollution of marine waters and of the bathing coast of oil in the Municipality of Glyfada, Greek, Argyroupoli, Alimos, Palaio Faliros, which states that: "We know that as regards the coast "Mesos Floisvos" and the coast of Protos at the hotel "CORAL", following the care of our service, these oil-minor residues have been included by the detergent company, "which has taken over the decontamination of the area". Yes, sir. All mayors have been notified to the Health Department, the Environmental Department, the Decentralised Administration, etc. We're told they've cleared the surface. As far as the bottom is concerned, as we have requested from the PPE, whether there are sediment, no answer has been given. I expect the PPE, which we will meet on Friday - we have the Committee on the Environment and it will be the PPE - to tell us whether the sediment has been measured at the bottom and if so. There's been no measurement. Well done, then, for opening beaches. We didn't know Salamis had a beach. At least you should call the MPs. It's my area. I was elected in Piraeus Region II and had every right to be present. Why didn't you call the MPs? That's what the Minister can answer. We were the day before that we were awarded at the Life Bridge. That's what I wanted to say and I'm waiting for your answers. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Theodora Megalonikou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let's go to the bill now. The Greek state must not leave this opportunity unexploited for new technologies. Thus, it was absolutely necessary to exploit the Greek orbital position, i.e. the nominal position of 39 degrees east on the track of Earth's artificial geostatic satellites and associated telecommunications frequencies. In view of the fact that the previous contract with HELLAS SAT lasts until 2021, it was an absolute priority not to lose this track position and to provide a timely for a new contract signature. Thus, we have a new contract, which is renewed and at the same time amended by the agreement between the Greek State and the company HELLAS SAT, which ensures that there is a real utilization of the specific track that Greece has established. This agreement, I think it was very important, first of all, for the economic aspects, namely the facilitation of telecommunications, but also for all the business purposes, which are served. It is not a modern state that wants to attract investment unless it is secured intact and unaffected telecommunications. At the same time, there are very serious geopolitical reasons, which require the exploitation of the orbital position. Therefore, first of all they are grounds for security for the Greek State, which are served through the contract. Satellite communications are very clearly the future of telecommunications, and the country must be able to take the lead, not simply to monitor the humiliatedness of Europe's countries. Every bill serving the national purpose is a step towards achieving the newer assumption. Only one point I would like to make in Article 2, which stipulates that the annexes, as classified documents, are not published. There may be reasons for national security, which impose such secrecy. However, I must note that when we keep the reason for security in a pretext, we must be very careful because such tactics hide other data. Our aim will be to increase transparency and not to limit it. Otherwise, we will have a lack of democracy. Finally, I would like to make a few points. First of all, there are many issues that you are bringing us to amendments. This is customary, that is to say, to bring amendments to irrelevant bills. In fact, after the intense reactions that have been yesterday, you withdrawn the amendment on the strike, and this amendment should come to other committees, discuss bodies, look at it differently. As regards Amendment No 51 of the No.3691/2008 on the liability of legal persons, I believe that it is without objection and is not going to hit corruption, as you say, through this legislation. The amendment will only be made to state law for our harmonisation with the respective legislation of the European States. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me a minute, Mr President. I would like to ask you: What instances of offences are being committed, such as the creation of a criminal organisation and money laundering by legal commanders, who are subject to criminal responsibility, do you think they will be interested in administrative sanctions, which will probably have the legal persons they represent? No one! If they are at risk of imprisonment, the minimum they care about is a fine of hundreds or thousands of euros. The direction we must follow is the legislation on the real hit on corruption and not legislation, which is never to be implemented or which, if implemented, will not have the necessary control. In fact, the General Accounting Office of the State does not give us any evidence as to how much the revenue from the fines will increase. The prediction I make is that nothing is going to get into the state money, since in the accounts, confiscated, there will be nothing, because simply, the money will have come out. In order to do this, there must be an integrated legislation on corruption. We must not have too many debates and say fragmentedly that we are doing something to fight corruption. This is not the case with corruption. Watch out for this and bring it into completely different, new legislation. It needs a lot of discussion, Mr President-in-Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Ms. Big Housekeeper. The Deputy Minister for Labour, Mr Fotou, has asked for the floor for an amendment. Mr Ballis will be followed by the parliamentary representative of the Democratic Alliance, Mr Loverdos. Mrs. Fotou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u69	Mr President, I am not sure of the number of amendments. Is the amendment with a general number of 1373 and a special number 23? Am I right?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u70	He's got a number 22.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u71	Thank you. Under the first provision of this amendment, therefore, operational difficulties are being encountered in the implementation of the proactive programmes and actions of responsibility of the General Secretariat for Social Solidarity and the Ministry of Labour in general. In simple terms, this amendment enables funding to be provided to supervised bodies of the Ministry of Labour. What do we mean by "supervised"? You know it's the thirteen Social Protection Centres, the Blind Centre, i.e. the CEFT, the deaf Foundation, i.e. the EKT, the National Social Solidarity Centre, i.e. the EKT. Therefore, we have this possibility of directly financing these bodies for specific programmes, which we have had to do and we could not run a lot of programmes. Already yesterday, as you know, we announced our actions for the homeless. With the second provision, which relates exactly to the very successful "House and Reintegration" Programme, we are talking about six hundred families, who were homeless, on the road, former drug addicted, former prisoners, etc., who have thus found a place to stay, through thirty-three bodies running the Programme from the EMCDDA. [[The end of the speaking time of Mrs. Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I would like a minute, Mr President. In particular, we give the EHIM the opportunity to redesign the Housing and Reintegration Programme, to broaden it, as it is an excellent programme, but to address the problem not only with the families of the homeless, but also with those who are alone, homeless on the road, as well as with cases of detained and drug addicted, who are in dismissal. So this is the amendment, because we want in this way to implement for vulnerable groups, namely those who have been hit by the crisis, more programmes. These days, as you know, there is a great action that has an impact on society as a whole - and we see it from morning to night in all the media and all the televisions - the social dividend. EUR 1.4 billion has been saved since the 2015 agreement, because we have achieved just 0.5% primary surplus in 2016 and 0.75% in 2017. This has enabled us, instead of the agreed, to promise 4.5% and 4.5% of the primary surplus, Mr President, that is, 9%, to have a large primary surplus this year, as was the case last year. Let me say where we are, because that is what is of interest to the whole public: at the moment we are in the approved nine hundred eighty-seven thousand, two hundred and ninety-two applications, i.e. almost now, at a time, million, which has already been credited to them and an average of 574.64 euros per application. As you know, two million applications have already been made at the moment. At the same time, with extremely serious work and processing we have managed - and we need to inform the Delegation at the moment - not to cut a single disability allowance. All we have been hearing for a year - 'the benefits of the disabled will be cut off' - was a great propaganda of catastrophe, fear of our most vulnerable fellow citizens. Not even 1 euro, then! The negotiations are over, ladies and gentlemen, even if you do not know that! It's over! At the same time, despite the constant conglomerations, we have managed to increase by EUR 260 million the budget for family allowances. From EUR 650 million we reached 910 million. It is the EUR 260 million, Mr President, if you remember, which was countermeasures for 2019. They used to tell us that we would never do these things, and instead, we brought them in a year earlier. For family allowances, then, 260 million euros. With regard to the benefits for children, which we received in 2015 - from 2009 until 2015, when we are in power - with 26.7% - of poverty and material deprivation - I have to say: currently, six hundred two thousand from the total of eight hundred thousand families will see increases of 57% to 110%. We expect them to receive an allowance of two hundred and ninety - five thousand families. All these families will have an increase every month of their family allowances. I will say two numbers, so that this propaganda, which is currently taking place in the press - 'go on the benefits','farewell to benefits', headlines today - and my very respectable colleagues here are misled by it. So, listen, what do we give for a family with a child? What we received is EUR 480. That's how he took family with a kid a year. What'll it take? It'll take 840 euros. What do we give for a family with two children? What was he taking family with two kids? He took 960 euros a year. What's he gonna take with us? It'll take 1,680 euros. What do we give a three-way family? Because that's where there's a lot of fuss. What was the third family getting? It took 2,940 euros a year. What's he gonna take with us? It'll take 3,360 euros a year. What was the tense family getting with four kids? He took 3,920 euros. What'll it take? It'll take 5,040 euros. Tenants with five children were taking 4,900 euros. What'll it take? 6,720 euros. And not just that. I can go as long as you want. But this story must be stopped. This is not a redistribution of poverty. It's low family allowances - I'm very sorry to say it - as it was. We received 650m euros, made 910m euros. So, let's stop all this specula. Greek citizens will see it in their pocket very soon. So I think there's no need for that kind of noise right now. Thank you and excuse me, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u72	Thank you very much to the Minister. Mr. Simeon Ballis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the House should not leave the disgrace it has just attempted before the speaker - a representative of the Golden Dawn fascist. He questioned and offended the memory and sacrifice of the Polytechnic. He knows that Dertilis, who was photographed with the revolver outside the Polytechnic and who, after a few days in his interviews, was proud of his success that night, was not a sniper. The blood of the polytechnic dead is in their hands, because they are the political children of Dertilides, Patatians and Papadopoulos, as are the blood of Paul Bryssa and of every poor and defenseless immigrant who were beaten wildly in this country. [[Applause]] I would like to continue with some things - from what I have heard in their speeches - and to assure, as far as I can, the Civic Opposition does not worry, because it is not our intention to launch the country in the Space. You argued that you did this, with the famous'success story'. Except your manipulations were direct, mathematically accurate to the black hole in the Space. We're more careful. We are ambitious to lead the country - and we are driving it - to the roads of recovery - slowly to the truth, but firmly - to the way out of the memorials and the regaining of our right to design our future. You may question what has been achieved, but whatever you say, reality does not change for the economy. Our recovery is not based on return to the past, as you would like, but on the new foundations created by successive growth in the last two years, which is small, not as much as we would like, but at least it is not a recession, as it has been in your years. We have exceeded the primary surplus targets for the second year. We are gradually achieving our exit to the markets and debt refinancing. We are building a more solid and dignified, finally fame for our country and economy. Industrial production is growing. Investments are also increased in 2017. Also, at a satisfactory rate, exports are growing. And of course we are not talking about the big chapter of tourism, which is broken from time to time by any record. In addition to all of this, we must not forget the significant reduction in the rate of unemployment. Very soon there will probably be no digit 2 in front of the number showing unemployment in our country. In addition to this, we have heard accusations from other aspects of counter-population - I am not referring to the criticism made by the JRC - of an anti-government policy of the government. And we heard them from the point of view of the abolition of collective agreements in previous years, the abolition of post-energy and the abolition of protection against collective redundancies. All of this certainly does not seem to disturb the nostalgics of a past philosopher in our country. I also heard that the Critical Opposition has been disturbed by not making the annexes to the Agreement public. Let us recall that these annexes also mention the frequency of communication for the Army and for the Police. So they're classified documents. Of course, you have recently shown that you do not hesitate to share left and right as a card war on media classified documents in order to make the type of opposition you have chosen. The annexes, however, as has been confirmed by the Minister, are available to anyone who wants to study them. We can't make paper warfare. After all, we have heard that the Qualified Opposition, although it agrees, will vote'residents' in this bill. Will this statement be made for the 'present' so that we in Parliament can hear it? Because you added that this bill, this convention, very soon you will be invited to implement it. I can, therefore, assume that you may say that if so, you say this to be heard by those who are waiting for the miracle, that is to say, to become a government again, to give back to the private sector and this important, national importance, competence - you have done so before - so that our country will be running again for its national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr. Ballis. Mr Georgiadis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u75	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, with regard to the bill itself, the rapporteur of the New Democracy told you why we are voting 'the present'. We believe that they are very small of you who have never made any reference to what the previous government and the previous Prime Minister have done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u76	We'll do it, wait!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u77	I like your arrogant style. It's very pleasant. However, we shall now proceed to the essentials which the Secretary-General of the JRC has set here. How humiliated you are!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u78	You're not shy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u79	As I say, let's all understand it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u80	Take it back. That's not a level of discussion.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u81	Are you bringing a bill of 50% plus 1 for the strikes? If I told Parliament three years ago, to you, Nikos Pappa, that SYRIZA as government will send the MATs to the pacifist courts to beat his former comrades, spray them with chemicals so that the bank auctions can take place, would anyone believe me? Since you like auctions and auctions so much, as Mr Tsakalotos said, why, Minister, did you not force the previous government to auction faster, since they have a social mark, as you said? Or the social sign of the auctions did SYRIZA understand that now that you have to remain Minister and keep your chair? Why can't I imagine Mr. Tsakalotos on the table he was sitting in the square with the indignant and yelling together "hot, burn..." - I'm not saying the word, because now you have become very sensitive to words, Mr. Poppa - as you called the House at the time, to tell them about the social mark of the auctions, which you are now being affected! But you didn't mind those slogans. And I told you a few things before. Now, listen to the immeasurable. Has Mr. Mardas come out? Did you hear him? - and he told us at the "Parapolistics" the immaterial. He said: “It had to be - as a personal opinion, said - to make auctions four years ago. The previous government had to have taken out the first house in the auctions to have achieved better prices, to have stabilised the banking system and everything else." And when the journalist, Mr. Dimitris Takis, was amazed, said to him: "But did you call a house in the hands of a banker," do you know what Mr. Mardas said, with the observation that all the previous ones are his personal opinion? "And because we called it? We were opposition, all we wanted to do was shout. The government had to do its job and rule."
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u82	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u83	In common, Mr Mardas told us that the government of Samara - Venizelos did not proceed with first home auctions and he is now coming to resolve this now, for SYRIZA to be forced to send MATs and to spray Lafazani with chemicals. That's what Mr Mardas told us. I would admit to him - because I saw that he also wants the personal speech - if he had then come out in the indignant square and said that it is good to have the auctions and not now that you are MPs and ministers in this House. Now let's go, Mr. Pappa, to the major television licenses. There I think with your usual arrogance you are preparing for your new Waterloe. Mr. Poppa, things are perfectly clear. If there is no preventive control anywhere you were, if it is not laid down that the person who goes to take part in the contest and put money on the table, does indeed have this money and it is not that money from past past past past past past past past past past past past past past past past past past year past year's play, in your previous competition, which fell into the Council of State, and if it is not valued in the present value of a working television business in relation to a young person who is going to show up, then you have not made a competition on equal terms, but you are making a contest to bring rabbits, like last time. What is New Democracy telling you? To make the competitions for television licences and get the Greek State the money, so that this competition does not fall on the Council of State, as the previous one fell. To make the tenders the right way, with preventive control from where you were, so that the one who will come to be a real investor and not a rabbit and who will be valued at the present value of the TV stations, so that we can have a competition that is transparent, which is fair, which will bring money to the Greek public, who will put order in the broadcasting scenery, but will also breathe a sense of justice, because otherwise it makes no sense. I shall close with Amendment No 50% plus 1, which I would like to analyse a little more. I, Mr Katsotis, listened very carefully in the morning. I was coming and I was not inclined to vote on this amendment. Do you know how many years in my life I expected an amendment like this to come? I made a mistake, Mr. Papagelopoulos. You guys probably understood it sometime in your life. I joined the SGC when I went to college, because I wanted, among other things, 50% plus 1 for the strikes. I didn't know I had to go write to SYRIZA! I didn't know, you guys on the JRC, that I was wrong, that if I wanted the strikes to be abolished in Greece, I had to go to SYRIZA, not to New Democracy! I do recognize that, Mr Pappa! What a fairy tale you have sold to the Greek people your whole life, I recognize that! From first on the streets against privatization, now you are advertising us the interventions of the Prime Minister to make the privatisation of Greek. You were first in the protests with Mr. Tsipras himself. I saw a nice video on YouTube, Mr. Loverdos, and I tell you because you're following. I don't know if you've seen it. It is Tsipras with similar arrogance as the Pope, who was shouting earlier and saying: "The intervention of the Troika in the sacred right to strike is not only unconstitutional, but it is also unacceptable and I will go in front to stop." Tsipras used to say these things, which he now brings and legislates, to stay parliamentarians and all will vote for, one by one. One of them will vote and move their heads. Why? Mr Kyritsis back - another great Left - will come first - to vote for the abolition of the strike in Greece with glory and honour to remain a MP. Because you're the ones! And if the evaluation quickly closed - and I'm closing with it - it's only closed for one reason. Because the troika did not meet in Greece. I was listening the day before Mr. Varoufakis said it, but the truth is, I've heard it from the troika technical blocks. Do you know how the negotiation took place? They had the troika ready for the paper, and the ministers entered the room, they saw it in front of them and they said 'Where are we going to sign?' they signed 'yes, we take it all, but don't go out right away, drink a coffee, don't get any news'. This was SYRIZA's proud negotiation, and the reason why they threw down the previous government, Andreas Loverdo, because - he says - we didn't know how to negotiate and they had to come, that Troika would see them and scare them. And now they're going through everything, and the privatizations and the cut of the ESS and 50% plus 1 and all will do it and Cristism, who raises his hand first. The best, number one in the world is that SYRIZA MPs go to the areas sold by the lignite units of PPC, Yiannis Maniatis, go to the protests this morning and shout against the privatisation of lignite units and then come to the parliament and vote. That's what we're talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u84	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u85	They could be missing, Mr Georgiadis, because we have enough staff. Mr Mardas has asked for the floor first. Then Mr. Kritsis will take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u86	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if we were to give the university some examples of policy deflection, I believe that what has been heard here, in relation to what has been written, would be a very nice example of teaching students. What has been said and what has been written, not generally and vaguely, but precisely. I accidentally brought the computer with me, because I had the intuition that something would sound. So I have it with me. It was said: 'If the New Democracy did not make four legislative suspensions, as regards the regulation of this issue of auctions, we would today have finished with a very large part of it'. This Mr. Georgiadis overridden it and he did not wonder what this very big place is. If I referred to the first residence, I would not say'very much of it'. We'd be done with all the auctions. I would then mention that the arrangements would have been much easier. The arrangements are with the banks and no one else, which has not happened. Of course, Mr. Georgiadis accidentally, like a wave, passed my second answer and went to the third, fourth. He said some of his things, which I didn't say, of course. It will be good, when you come here, to have my text to read it and not to go through it with your own opinions. It is good to say that they are your opinions or say: "So I feel that you had something in mind." Let us read the second part, which refers to the very large part of the auctions. I read what I said and am ambiguous: 'If the New Democracy had decided at the time to make the auctions with such an informal agreement with the banks we have made...'. And now this informal agreement, as you know, refers to auctions of over 300,000 euros. If, therefore, I wanted to refer to all auctions, there was no reason for me to refer this matter back to committee. I continue to say:'and of course the reactions would have been much less'. Look at what's going on, ladies and gentlemen. A common denominator in your policy and ours was the well-known Katselis law, to us "Kselis - Stathakis". From there on, of course, transposing a problem does not mean that we solve the problem. And the problem came here. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. What did the government do to embrace even more categories of people associated with the first residence? He did in practice some things that give another air. What are these? Firstly, it is this informal agreement. The informal agreement is indeed an agreement which leads to even more cases relating to the first residence. Second, as you know, we have the extrajudicial compromise. And he embraces many cases related to the first residence. Thirdly, a Special Secretariat for the Management of Private Debt was set up, another mechanism which again seeks to protect the first residence. But you understand that between inertia and action there is a difference. In view of the pressures we have received and the pressures you have had, the practices we are introducing are clearly in favour of the first residence. Also, what you said I mentioned is not anywhere, either in the article or in the vocal hearing of what I have said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u87	Thank you. Sir, you have the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u88	Mr President, I would like to say that although for me, the last-space revelations concerning the CEDEFOP concerning Mr Georgiadis were seen today, I would also make as much noise as he does today in order to turn public interest from my face. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u89	I see Mr. Georgiadis lifted both hands. Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u90	When I go to the CDC exam, don't miss it. Come and watch. Mr President, I did not know that Mr Kyritsis is voting for the abolition of strikes in Greece, because I am accused of CEDEFOP. This is a new revelation. You've been turning your whole life around for the strikes, you're voting 50 plus 1, and you've got the face to talk about me for the CDC? Not to mention what you were telling us about what happened to you the day you voted for the first memorandum, because we're in Parliament. Now vote for both the second and the third, and the fourth, and don't lift your hand, because you're being humiliated! Now let's go to Mr. Marda. Listen, Mr. Marda. Everything you have said is of great interest to be discussed within the framework of capitalism. Why didn't you talk about it earlier? Why didn't you come down to the 2015 elections, saying, Mr. Papa, we want to start first home auctions with an informal deal with the banks to respect the 300,000 euros? Why did you come down with an agenda for the earthquake, which Mrs Karakosta told us the other day, does not mean deletion of debts and other things? So I don't blame you for what you're saying now, say what you want, I blame you for the mockery you have sold to the Greek people for four years now. With regard to the major, which is EUR 300,000 and the informal agreement with the banks, I am sure the gentlemen of the JRC here will explain to you what will say informal agreement with the banks in capitalism. Informal agreement with the banks in capitalism, Mr President, is not there. Just, what has happened now is that the banks will start with the real estate of great value, as always happens to all capitalism and when they arrive at 300,000, then the informal deal will end. So don't make fun of us, sir. If you want to protect the 300,000 euros, bring law. If you do not bring law, there is no informal agreement, there is no informal agreement. Another mockery of yours exists like the last one!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u91	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u92	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, soon, but also to respect Mr Loverdos, who is already waiting for a quarter.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u94	It's all right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u95	Mr Marda, you have the floor, but please be brief. I don't give time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u96	Yes, Mr. President. Mr Georgiadis will know very well that many informal agreements lead to much better results than any law. On the other hand, when you refer to an article or to a statement that I made, there is no need to remember a whole revolution, but to refer to what I have said and criticise what I have said and make a few descriptions of what I have said. Now that you realize that you ignored some of the things I said and you're trying to gold out the pill, that's another case. But when you refer to someone, who says a few things, a reference to what he proposes and to what he supports. The rest we know and have heard. Also, when some pressure is exerted, you understand that it is reasonable for some policy measures to change. The problem is this: the pressures we have had from you. What have you done, so that you do not postpone the problem and what have you done, so that you are not inactive? Because transferring the problem is not a solution to the problem. I'm giving you a really nice alibi that you didn't make auctions. But that does not mean that you have solved the problem, you have simply transferred it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u97	Thank you. Mr. Kritsis, I give you the floor, but please be careful. I say this to both of us, and to Mr Georgiadis and Mr Kritsis, but also to everyone, that there are no personal counter-references, so that we can proceed with the meeting. Mr. Sir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u98	Mr President, I do not want to go into personal conflicts and I would never start it first, but Mr Georgiadis recommended that I attend the committee meeting when it goes. On the contrary, I know that the New Democracy is trying to remove publicity from the meetings of this committee, so everyone is drawing its conclusions. In relation to the other issue, the government negotiates and succeeds what it sometimes considers to be the best thing to do by looking at the protection of trade union rights. The New Democracy and Mr Georgiadis, even more so, are in favour of the general dissolution of all trade union rights, so every step of retreat, as today's, makes sense to enthusiast him. But I do not understand why this enthusiasm is expressed in such a clear way, except for the earlier interpretation I gave you about the revelations about his role when he was a Minister of Health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u100	Mr President, a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u101	What kind of clarification?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u102	A statement would like to make, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u103	Mr. Kefaliannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u104	Mr President, I would like the floor for ten seconds because there has been an inaccuracy, because I also participate in the committee to examine the famous health scandals, the New Democracy - and as far as I know the PASOK - does not deny publicity in this committee. So what Mr Kyritsis referred to is untrue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u105	It's another story in the paper.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u106	Thank you very much. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. I take advantage of the opportunity given to me by the presence of the Minister for Digital Technology, to start my speech as a parliamentary representative on an issue that is really not included in today's draft law, but which is included in Mr Pappas's topics. We had had a debate on the basis of an amendment that you had brought about a month ago. It was an amendment concerning television licences and it had the proposals of the Television Council which you had adopted, so that the competition could go well. We and the Potami have voted 'no' because we have asked you in the amendment to add two conditions to the competition: first of all, we have asked you to 'outside' to avoid the stories of rabbits. You hadn't spoken of them, but they had spoken of themselves - paradoxical, but true - on television cameras. They had baptized themselves, for the sake of your contest and pursuits. So that this can be ruled out and that's what you had beforehand. And secondly, we have proposed that you go over it. You have in the contest the membership guarantee that the candidate loses if he doesn't get permission. We suggested that you go over by adding the "good-purpose guarantee", which you usually give after someone won the competition. It is brought before us beforehand to really avoid, Minister, the history of rabbits, of those who enter competitions for other purposes, being fully transparent, of total purity, which is something we are all calling for as a political system, but who are also seeking to do so. We weren't here. The conversation was over. Someone took the floor on you or you - I do not remember - and you said that this is the procedure. The process doesn't have it. We have to be precise. And because it does not have them, plus the other problems, which I have put to you from time to time, we ask you - as long as it is time - to add them. And by adding them, you will have to win, because you will make a process that will actually take flesh and bone and will not be simple declarations. I'm starting with this. Now, with regard to the draft law "Convention between the Greek State and Hellas Sat", which has been in force for twenty years and we are renewing it from 2021 to 2041, we have agreed. Yannis Maniotis has said that. We just had one reason for having presented to the Standing Committee of Parliament your own initiative as if it were to start the whole thing from you, while we have a history of twenty years, a history of technologies, which is very, but very important, for our country. Now, I have no dissent in this regard, but the Scientific Studies Directorate has stressed it - it does not make any comment, it simply underlines it as something - and Mr Maniotis has told you. Why should certain elements be classified in the annexes? We are not opposed, but the explanations were not sufficient. Mr Maniotis reminded you that even in the case of the oil contracts he had not predicted classified, although one could say that the interest in these investments was too high and could therefore have exploited the possibility. We didn't. Why are you doing this? I'm not saying it's a suspect in the back, but, uh, enough explanations have not been given. And I referred to Article 2. Now, for Mr Papagelopoulos' amendment to the legal entity, we consider the explanations he has given to be adequate, provided that, by harmonising the relevant directive he has mentioned, it restores the terminological consistency to the provisions and its amendment, and we therefore have no problem. That's how we vote. Otherwise, we wouldn't vote for it. We had decided, if you hadn't changed the term, not to make any other retreat. Now, accept as members of the government the following points on the Erdogan visit. We are watching the whole dialogue and we are trying to get an approach to information, which we do not officially have by the government - all the members of the ETUC do not have - on this visit. We read from people who probably have access to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs about the difficulties that existed before the invitation to Erdogan was finalised. In the Democratic Reconciliation, we have issued a communication saying that Greece should earn something from this visit. We are not opposed, but we say that from the Turkish President's visit Greece on the agenda of the issues it has to have a certain benefit. Because Erdogan has a benefit with this visit. It is the so-called undertaking to restore an international charm, which has been hurt since its coup to an exaggerated extent. This is an opportunity he will try to make use of. We have raised four issues as a Democratic Incorporation. I'll record them at the National Representation after I say something before. I hope that the protocol will be kept and wreathed to the Unknown Soldier the Turkish President will testify, as did the late President Ozal three decades ago. I don't think that's out of the planned pace of the visit. I believe that this is what Greek democracy has guaranteed to be the Turkish President here. Now, as far as the debate is concerned, the President himself is trying to restore his prestige. He's coming to Greece. Will the question of crossing borders be raised, of a manifest behaviour? Looking at, ladies and gentlemen, my speech on auctions in April 2017, I saw what I said as Parliamentary Representative for Turkey's attitude in the spring. The violations of our borders and problems of dullness, our fellow neighbours, have been and are still too many. Is this on our agenda? Is the Cyprus issue on the agenda? Is the migration on the agenda, where we are living to increase again? It is a series of problems that naturally arise from the Greek Government's attitude, especially the first year of its existence in power, but also from Turkey. And finally, has his visit to Thrace been carefully, or will we have a repetition of his stories with the Turkish Vice-President a few days ago, where he was truly inappropriate and insulting? I hope you've seen all of this in a good manner and that this visit will be a good one. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, we must all be in this Chamber at least sincere to ourselves and to others, but also to the Greek people who, by their vote, send us here. It is a common place that the main exchanges you gave to close the evaluation are PPC, the jobs and the issue of the auctions, which are overrun by 100% of your last night's self, all of you, from the Prime Minister to the last Deputy and MP - all of you! Let me give you our experience yesterday. We were here and we had a timely question from the New Democracy that we were discussing - I was here as a Parliamentary spokesman for Democratic Reconciliation - about the European policy of the country and we heard that the amendment on labour was tabled in a completely balloted way. I have seen my fellow spokesman for the Communist Party as I have never seen him, as many years as we are colleagues in this House, really coming out of his own clothes, revolting and criticizing. Indeed, yesterday's tension - which I will not forget - is the peculiar reaction to your policing. Mr. Brutsis was here. I was here. Mrs. Katseli was not in the Chamber. Mr. Kutrumanis was not in the Chamber. We were in the Chamber the four ministers who for five years refused these changes to work. For five years! Changes in work, these changes, they were asked before we signed the Memorandum in May 2010. Not all of those governments were aware of this retreat because we did not regard it as capital. Did you also come last night - while Parliament is asking a timely question and is taking control of another issue - of Mr Pappa's draft law - which is innocent, in the sense that we are voting on it all or most of us - to bring this amendment to a polluter's attention? Night? That's not happening! And from the reactions you took it back. As Mr Koutsoubas said, it is: 'like the thief who got caught'. You took them back to come back when the scenery, in your opinion, will be cleaner. One of the prisoners. I'll see you one of these. And when this particular arrangement comes to work, we'll get it one by one, see what you're up to. You are what we have said here too many times, a Maduro party which you do not find either in the centre, on the left, or on the right. An alien-shaped scheme aimed only at power. That's what you are. And PPC, the jobs and the auctions with which I will close my intervention, proves the truth. I'd be embarrassed if I were you. Really, I'd be ashamed. I would gather, I would look at how to deal with the House, my party members, my voters, with all that you have said and after the September 2015 elections and not at the time of the Opposition, which you confessed as you wanted. And after you took over the government's responsibilities, you fooled the world. We were here, Mr President, in this Chamber when the draft law on auctions came, directly or indirectly. We said that since January 1st 2018 your masks have fallen. The auctions will be independent, even from this first place of residence, unless the owner has been protected by the Katseli Act and provided that he has put all his other assets for sale. We told you this and you smiled at the ministerial benches. You were urging from underneath the speeches of your ministers. The time has come, before we enter 2018, to prove that it was true. You've got it all fixed up. You've set it all up electronically and don't. Your e-mail also presents technical problems, from what we learn. In any case, your political mood has been expressed, in the legislation you have brought and voted for, with the enthusiasm of your Members who have thought that you are protecting my first residence. And life came to prove that you were lying. And where are you hiding now? You are all in a villa together of a businessman, who happens to be worth 500 thousand euros, say, and your newspapers are entitled "For the villas all this is done". In the homes of the world, who lost them for 10,000 and 20,000 euros, with which the press and television has filled, you don't fit? Are you feeling big now? Do you only want the villas to hide? That's what you do, though. And the truth is that. [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] The truth is that, because the government has no confrontation. The words of counterpopulation can be said to be words. The government is opposed to reality. And you oppose things, you oppose time, you are opposed to the days of Greek citizens, under your own rule. One thing the world tells us, when it meets us on the street: "When will they leave?" That is the essential question we are asked about. And we answer: "For the sake of the place, it is a wish that they should leave as soon as possible." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-five students and students and six educational attendants from the 4th School of Nafplio. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, do you want the floor for the legal improvements or later?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u109	No, Mr. President. I shall refer to my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u110	Mr Georgiodas, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, my speech will focus on an amendment tabled, but I would also like to make a comment on auctions. Because in this Chamber those of us who were in previous years, I think we need to remember a few things and we need to demonstrate the irresponsibility and populism with which SYRIZA handled these issues. I want to remind everyone that in 2010, when PASOK at the time brought the famous Katseli law, the New Democracy as opposition voted for it, because it was a law which, in fact, helped people with great weakness to stand up to their families and to fulfil - as far as possible - their obligations. When New Democracy brought him back as a government, SYRIZA, who had not even voted for him in 2010, did not vote for him in 2013 either. The reason why SYRIZA did not vote for Katseli - and I would like to remind the Greeks - was: "It is not enough. We will bring another law better than us, with greater protection for the untreated." We saw her the protection she came with a substantial abolition of the Katseli law! I would also remind you of something: the government of Costas Karamanlis in 2008 banned first home auctions. In 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014 was no auction. We have to remember these things a little. I would agree that we should at some point have seen with the voice of logic and pragmatism the way in which this situation and this problem are to be addressed. But on the part of the opposition we had a word: 'Sympathy'. How do you talk? How can you really see that you have to categorize those who have to, that you have to see their real needs, their real incomes, and see how you can get out of this vicious circle when you have such a populism against you? Now, this government pays this populism the worst. To justify their practices and choices, they want us to believe that their former comrades, Lafazanes and others, go to the peace courts and eat wood and chemicals to defend villas. This in the judgment of all Greeks! As regards the amendment which has been tabled, Mrs Gerovazis has analysed the needs of preservation and cleanliness in the Ministries and legal persons governed by public law, as well as the arrangements for eighteen-month contracts to be made to address urgent and unforeseen needs - in the explanatory statement. It is an amendment that will remain in history as the amendment that abolishes everything. It leaves nothing up, not only from the legislative framework, not only from the Constitution, but from the logic itself. In an effort to analyse the feasibility and usefulness of this regulation, Germany refers to the fact that there are dispersed public contracts in relation to this subject and they need to be consolidated, normalised and actually left the suggestion that we should move on to permanent employment relationships. This argument, Mrs And Minister, could be heard in some other cases where, in fact, there were dispersed fixed-term contracts from the past, which may have been repeated on the one hand, but which have covered lasting needs. But here is an issue that you have created. The urgent and unpredictable needs in hospitals for these two objects are decades and have been addressed in a concrete way provided for in our legislative framework. What's that particular way? Call for competitions for this project. You created these contractors. You extended these contracts in 2015, when you took over, by the Katorugalou law. You put it as an initial limit in the twenty-four months. You are now coming to put together eighteen months, because it is an urgent and unforeseen need, without any criteria. At the first entry of these people into this employment, you have created an injustice in local communities, because others, who were working in cleanliness, who were working in security, but who were in the private sector, were qualified and could be permanent staff to participate and claim such a post. But at the moment they don't have the opportunity. You are creating a new generation of hostage workers to use them in the next election. That's clear. You want a permanent staff for these jobs? Do you consider that there is no urgent need for doctors, nurses, economists, teachers, teachers and the urgent need for permanent staff to cover cleanliness and care? Good. If that's your choice, respecter. Make a standing staff contest now. Start him now. Why do you create generations of contractors? Why are you holding these people hostages? Why do you want to create this whole picture? It's your choice. Since it is your choice and you want to do so, there may be a legislative framework, which says that this should not be done in the way it is done. You want permanent staff, so we don't want in a hospital, do we want permanent civil servants for cleaning and guarding? It's your choice. You'll be rated for that. Start it now. What's a twenty-four-month contract for urgent need? Are we going to do another eighteen months for another emergency and unforeseen need? What is the urgent and unforeseen need? What the Court says, have you assessed them? What the Presidential Decree of 2014 says, do you know? What is stated in the explanatory statement of the 2011 Review Constitution, in which exactly the checks were in place to ensure that such contracts are not extended, that there are no such renewals, have you assessed them? You come with a recital, which will remain in history. You are not respecting the judgments of the courts. And you do something else: You are currently intervening in pending trials, not just civil, but criminal. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. It is under the protection of the Minister - as we learn - the commander of the University Hospital of Ioannina. Mr. Papagelopoulos is missing. We will either respect the judgments of the courts or we will not respect them. A court ruling was made and he said, "Don't keep doing what you're doing." And it went the next day - obviously with Mr Polakis' backs - the tsamboukas, the great hospital commander against the decision and took illegal action. And today, in your amendment, you are voting for his discharge for what he has done. And all the costs, which have been unlawfully incurred, are also considered to be legitimate. You know very well that this problem is not solved now, but you are moving it to the next government. You are creating an expectation to these people. You are keeping them hostages much worse than they have been condemned to the world's consciousness that it has happened in the past decades - in a really much worse way! - and create a sense of injustice in Greek society. The Greek society is tired of bad choices of the past, it wants a clear speech, it wants a clear policy, a clear programming and it wants respect for the existing rules. You break that and you will find it in front of you, not just politically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr. Georgioda. There are three other parliamentary representatives left to speak, Mr Katsis, Mr Kefaloyannis and Mr Papachristopoulos. Mr. Katsy has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I am going to respond to everything that has been said, despite the fact that the main year of the debate in plenary has dealt with the issue of an amendment from the Ministry of Labour, which has not in the end been tabled. And we will answer why it was not tabled, but for your things too, because we do not want to evade any of the objections that have been heard here today. But do you know what the frustrating thing is for those watching us? You're not upsetting us. You're annoying the world. You are annoying the world that is watching us - this is the problem - because you think you are addressing indigenous people, because you think you are addressing people who have forgotten your things and what you have done, the pillaging you have brought to the country and you think you can suddenly come here like baby virgins and present yourself as the honorers of everything. Let's see just what's happened in the past few years. I will start with the issue of auctions and answer them one by one. For one thing, you have decided with the famous e-mail Hardouvelis, which whenever you want to remember and whenever you want to remember, the complete release of first home auctions from 1-1-2015. We have arrived at the end of 2017 and the first home auction has not been made. What did we do, though? In addition to Katseli law, which was at the end of 2014, we extended Katseli law, extraly brought Stathakis law, which was protected, we unilaterally introduced the hundred and twenty instalments - and then you nailed us to the troika for unilateral actions on the part of the government - we established the out-of-court compromise that Mrs Bakoyannis - not to go into your inner parts - then said: "I'm sorry, but we can't vote for a law that hurts banks." And you did not vote for the extrajudicial compromise - that is the reality - that you know it regulates debts to taxi, to insurance funds, to public funds, to banks and is also a haircut to the debt. You're forgetting about all this. You also forget that 110 million have been budgeted in the Greek budget for popular households, for people who cannot pay the instalment of their housing loan. You forget that the Code of Conduct of Banks has changed and there have been considerable arrangements to discuss with banks the world that owes it and to be able to repay its loans. You also forget the arrangements made in the GLP and the haircut for the loan of the people you have had in hostage all these years. You're forgetting all this. You had released auctions from 1-1-2015 and you come here and you do us that you don't remember. Let us say now, however, what has happened with everything that is heard in the public sphere. You're telling us we're not protecting our first residence. First of all, despite all the reports that have been released in the press over the last few days, people do not know - and that is deliberate in my opinion - what the actual amount of debt is. That's the first. Secondly, it may be first residence, but is it the only residence? Because I may have a villa in Thessaloniki, but I can declare first residence in Igoumenitsa. It can be done. We must therefore know on every occasion that we are discussing and seeing the light of publicity what the actual amount of the debt is, what the real first home is, what is - after all - the amount of the loan that has been entered, what the balance is, and why it has not been incorporated or not covered by the legislation established by our Government. Now I'm going to work. About the gossip done by your Vice President, to say I don't know if he's looking for honor for New Democracy. Here we are a few colleagues. If we were three hundred or a hundred fifty colleagues, your Vice-President would have made fifty nominal reports. That's gossip. It's not a dissident speech, it's beginning, it's middle and it's over. It comes here, it throws mud, it attacks colleagues personally, and it has nothing to say about the fact that it is the core of your ideology to vote for bills that abolish labour rights, which have been won with a struggle. Remind me: Law 3899/2010 with Article 13 abolished the specific business collective agreements, the principle of more favourable regulation between business and sectoral contracts and maintained only the threshold of the national collective agreement. Under Article 17, you have introduced a rotation system and you have given the employer the right to impose a one-sided rotation system. You legislated this in 2010. In 2010 you also legislated with Law 3846. What did you do? In Article 4, you have established the availability of workers. In other words, companies could, instead of denouncing the contract of employment, make employees available in writing. You did this. Let's not forget that. And not only you of the New Democracy, but also the Socialist Democratic Alliance, which has changed a name. I don't know why he does it, but synergy refers to other data about what exactly a movement he wants to be and what he wants to change. In 2012, you also introduced Law 4046 where the duration of the collective agreements and the revision of the meteorological activity decreased from six months to three months. You have abolished the permanentity of traditional contracts in all companies, you have frozen the maturities, you have eliminated the right to unilateral recourse to arbitration, and you have made a legislative adjustment to the minimum wage. Listen to this! And you come here talking about young people who are currently working in the private sector that you have legally introduced the minimum wage, which you have reduced overnight by 22%. And not only that, but for young people, who are under twenty-five years old, you have reduced...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u114	What's with the finger?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u115	Look...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u116	Do it somewhere else because it's annoying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u117	The finger thing is to understand that you did it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u118	And you made them?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u119	You have introduced the minimum wage for young people under twenty-five per cent below the minimum wage you have introduced.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u120	Have you announced new legislative intervention?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u121	That's what you did.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u122	Let's show yourself a little!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u123	Did you bring them back?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u124	Well, as far as work is concerned.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u125	A little shame!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u126	In the context of the second assessment, because many things have been heard, the requirements of the institutions have been too much in the matter of changing the trade union law. They were posed and disguised by our Government issues such as the introduction of retreat and lockout. He's disgusted. It wasn't legislated. They asked her to change the time of warning to declare the strike. And that's what they were asking for. It wasn't legislated. They called for the introduction of a general dismissal clause for trade union officials. And that's what they were asking for. It wasn't legislated. He was disgusted by our government. They called for the shortening of the time of the trade unions. This has not been legislated either. You know very well that the amendment has been withdrawn in order to allow time to make a much easier and more detailed debate in Parliament so that there are no pretexts on the procedure and to discuss the substance of the matter. We know from the second assessment very well that the current framework for decision-making in the primary operational unions is to present 1/3 of the financially settled members. It was agreed in the context of the second evaluation that 1/3 would go to 1/2. No change occurs in the primary trade unions in a wider region, such as the Attica or the whole of Greece, as well as in the secondary and higher trade unions. In these cases, the framework, which is still in place today, is to make the decision on a strike by the board of directors and to proceed normally. So all this disgracefulness of what the institutions have been asking for and which you are the core of your ideology and your policy has been disguised by us. We have only retreated this issue in the context of the second assessment, which will once again come back to legislate in this House in order to be thoroughly audited and to hear all the things that I have referred to. Let us not forget, however, the issue of contractors. In the summer we all remember very well that it opened a matter of cleanliness in the municipalities. When it became public debate and debate it was people who work in cleanliness and cleanse our cities, our neighborhoods. And your trade unionists went out and said that the government should not go ahead with a final solution to the issue. You created these hostages. In fact, we said that we wanted to proceed with permanent recruitment. The summary of the notice for eight and a half thousand cleaning places in the municipalities has already come out. But you said cleanliness to go to the private sector. That's what you were saying. And we cannot understand the government's idea of having permanent employees doing cleanliness in the municipalities. Also, do not do that you do not know that we are in close committee on your own responsibility, on the responsibility of the opposition parties, and that we are subject to a recruitment rule, which is the rule of four withdrawals. You know very well that all this time with unspecifiedness, our government's first priorities were recruitment to health. We are going to get out of the comitology and with the opportunity to give the degrees of freedom of policy, we will be able to cover the rest of the priorities. However, I would like to mention very much the main points which concern the current process, namely the process of ratification of the Greek State with the 'HELLAS SAT'. Because you say the contract was really complete with you, we just didn't have the time to read it and sign it, to see a little what you said in the original contract and what we did. The public in our own contract achieves, in exchange, the exclusive use of six transponders against three provided for by the original contract of the two transponders that were eventually delivered. That's a warning difference. Furthermore, in the renewed contract, the State receives in return three terrestrial hub satellites, HUB stations, three large satellite dishes and two hundred terminals. These terminals are very important for the daily lives of citizens, as they meet the greatest needs of remote areas, facilitate wider network coverage and effectively form the scope for access to and development of telecommunications activities, such as defence and civil protection. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, your tolerance for a minute. It is also of paramount importance for the Greek legal order that the provision of jurisdiction to resolve any disputes between the administrative courts of Athens under the provisions of Greek law instead of the arbitration of Geneva under the procedure of the one arbitrator provided for in the original contract in Article 49, as well as the supervision of the implementation of the project and the contract with the establishment of a monitoring committee which has already been established and the stay of the satellite system control centre within the Greek territory. We receive seventeen transponders in addition as a compensation for the debt owed by the original third transponder contract and delivery delays. These were your delays. At the same time, we have also secured exchanges for the free maintenance of the top equipment for five years and the free provision of equipment for the period of transition has been ensured by the Greek State. So, you had nothing to do with the previous contract. All of us were renegotiated in favour of the Greek public and the Greek people. I close, saying - since you referred to television licenses - the following: You found the Pappa law, you found the Minister, you called him "Minister of the Canalarch", you said that the competition would not take place, that the competition and the infamous law, Mr.4339/2016, was in force. The only article that went down was the article on who will carry out the tender, which reminds us that it has changed only for the first time, the competition because you did not want to set up the National Broadcasting Council. There you are. But no matter how much you bark, the government will move on. The competition is in the air and we will regulate a television scenery that you have been leaving for more than thirty years in order to serve your interests and your involvement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, too. The Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information Mr. Nikolaos Pappas has the floor for three minutes for some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr President. I will submit legislative improvements to the draft law 'Renewal - Amendment - Coding of the Special License Convention for the Exploration of the exclusive right of the Greek State to access and use the nominal position of 39° east on the orbit of the Earth's artificial geostatic satellites and its associated telecommunications frequencies through the construction, launching, operation and commercial exploitation of a pan-Hellenic and cross-border satellite system under the name of HELLAS SAT (HELLAS SAT)'. The following is added at the end of the title of the draft law: '... and other provisions'. Also, in Amendment No 1367/16 30-11-2017 ‘a) Setting up the issues for the election and term of office of elected representatives of officials and their alternates to the single servants and disciplinary boards of the Ministry of Digital Communications and Information and b) Removal of existing limitations of the existing legislation on the operation of radio reception stations, authorisation for the provision of subscription radio and television services, etc.’ in the draft law ‘Renewing - Amendment - Codification of the Convention on the Special License Area of the Greek Government to access and use the nominal position of 39o east of the track of the artificial geo-focal satellites of the Earth and its associated radio frequencies by building, launching, operating and commercial exploitation of a satellite system of satellites (HELS) to be implemented by: 1. (Parliament adopted the resolution) (a) in the first Article, the word ‘January’ shall be replaced by ‘February’; 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. In par. (b) in the first Article, the words ‘as defined in the Register of General Government Bodies’ shall be deleted; 3. In the first paragraph of the preamble, (c) in the first Article, the word ‘December’ shall be replaced by the word ‘January’; 4. (Parliament adopted the resolution) (c) in the first Article, the words ‘30 January’ shall be replaced by the words ‘15 February’; 5. In the first paragraph of the preamble, (e) in the first Article after the words ‘General Government’, the words ‘and the wider public sector’ shall be added; It is understandable that these legislative improvements have to do with the proper application of the texts and to the vote on provisions. I'm tabling them for the Minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative Mr Kefaloyannis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in fact, without a dose of irony, we welcome the fact that as far as the third assessment is concerned you have closed it in time and that, if anything, the stoicity you have shown this time in the implementation of the prerequisites - at least on a technical level - shows that you may have learned some of the sufferings that have caused the Greek economy by the catastrophic tactics of unreasonable delays and micro-party settlements in the previous two assessments. At least you have not added any more burdens and other problems than what your previous policy had accumulated. This, of course, does not mean that your obituary transformation will have a less painful effect on Greek society. I do not know if, at least in the Eurogroup, which sends the Taximo and the Treasury, reference is made to the exceptional economic situation of most of the Member States of the common currency, but in the relevant communication, Minister, you know very well that, unfortunately, Greece is not here. I do not think there has been any reference to the Greek Statistical Authority's reports on the sizes of GDP. Because according to ELSTAT, the data, i.e. the Hellenic Statistical Office, during the first quarter - which you also know very well that it is the best, due to tourism - 2017, the Greek economy developed by only 0.3% compared to the previous quarter and 1.3% annually compared to 2016. Unfortunately, these announcements, Minister, have made dust and crush the recent government lights to achieve the development goals. If you want, indeed, to catch the revised target for 1.6%, which reminds me that it was not your original target when last year we voted on your 2017 budget, your initial target was much longer - you have to take 3% as a target, which, apparently, is impossible. Unfortunately, you have soared overtax and reaped less revenue and less growth. I have heard from many of my fellow Members from the House about the success of the primary surpluses, overcoming the budgetary targets established by the current government. In practice, however, you are in every way folding the difficult reality, the hard reality of numbers. The total tax revenues and measures, activated in 2017, yielded much less revenues than expected. And not just that. In key codes on the revenue side, the receipts not only fell out of the targets, but fell back to lower levels than in 2016. Let us say this a little more briefly: you often stress that the country's GDP has fallen by 20% -25% in the first few years of the memoranda. If your government did not exist in 2015-2016, Minister, we would have already covered about half of this territory which has been lost in those years. Instead, we saw a recession in 2015, a recession in 2016 and a less growth in 2017 compared to what you yourself planned, compared to what you were voting on in this Chamber a year ago. I'm going to the auctions. I have listened to my dear colleague earlier that this government, in fact, saves homes. Of course, I would remind you that before you became a government, the motto was, "No house in the hands of a banker". As soon as you saw, of course, the dark, suddenly the 'no house' did it 'no folk home'. Let's see, after all, whether any people's houses will or will not be auctioned. Unfortunately, there are too many examples here for 2018 and it seems that the value of houses that will come out in auctions will be much smaller than what you say in public. Let me tell you something else. I hear often another political lie here that there is supposedly an informal deal with the banks so that they do not get home to up to 300,000. I, Minister, submit in the minutes the press release of the Hellenic Banks Association dated 14 November 2017. And I would ask all colleagues to listen to it. After a meeting, held by Mr. Karamouzis, President of the Association of Greek Banks, with Mr. Voutsi says, "Our priorities are clear at this time. We're placed. There's no deal. There is our choice to start this effort with electronic auctions focusing on the big assumptions, because that is the priority. However, it does not mean that later there is an agreement that we will not continue to make auctions." I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I am also presenting a report by the German 'HANDELSBLATT' on 16-11-2017, which refers to the statement by Mr Karamouzis, as well as an in.gr publication on 17-11-2017, which says that there is no such agreement. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And yet, ladies and gentlemen, you still say falsely to the Greek people that there is protection, that there is informal agreement and that none of these houses will be auctioned. I'm on it. The same political lies you said about PPC, unfortunately. In July 2014 the Prime Minister, then Chief of Officerial Response, Mr. Tsipras, during his visit to Amyntheus, said: "Small PPC is a national crime that we must prevent." Three years later, even SYRIZA officials recognize that what was then described as a national crime was perhaps a better solution than that which seems to have been agreed with the technical pillars of the troika. According to SYRIZA and the Independent Greek National Crime, it seems that the official leaks have been replaced by PPC's obligation to allocate 40% of its lignite production potential. It leaves an open door to the sale of hydroelectric power and does not provide for the transfer of liabilities from PPC to the new company. And, of course, it seems that all the jobs are not guaranteed. And unfortunately that, ladies and gentlemen, is the cost of populism and ideology. In the bill, obviously what Mrs Asmakopoulou, rapporteur of the New Democracy, has said about the main parameters of the bill, we are not opposed and we could not do otherwise. Although you do not recognize it and unfortunately do not have the political courage to say a good reason, if we are talking today about obtaining and guaranteeing satellite rights, it is because the previous Samara - Venizelos government has worked with perseverance and commitment to this objective. The only outstanding, as Mrs Asmakopoulou said, was the extension of the existing operating contract beyond 2021. I come very briefly to the amendments too. Minister, we obviously cannot be positive in Amendment Nos 1367 and 16 for a number of reasons. My colleague mentioned them, too. As far as the EMEA is concerned, our opposition from the outset was complete both for the feasibility of its existence and for the way it works. For the purpose of telling you, of course, that our country is the only world in which the attraction and implementation of international audiovisual productions will not be carried out by the respective film centre, but by an agency such as the EEMO. And this fragmentation of administrative responsibilities is unfortunately undermining all such opportunities. With regard to the provision of the amendment on secondment by way of derogation from the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we unfortunately cannot consent to that because we think it will once again be converted into a party group. As far as the second article of the amendment is concerned, Mr Minister, I am trying to remember whether there is now an article of your own law that has not been amended. I heard my dear colleague again from collision saying that only one article actually came out unconstitutional. Indeed, one has come out of unconstitutional. How many changes, however, have you brought to this House since the original law was passed? If I have counted well, they must be at least thirteen to fourteen. From the original law that you had brought to Parliament - and when you take the floor you can say it too - you have unfortunately not left two or three articles that have not changed. The law as it is at the moment with the successive amendments, in no case does it remind you of the original law that you had brought into this Chamber. As far as Amendment No 1368 is concerned, we will also be negative here, because once again there is a derogation from the public procurement law and no economies of scale are achieved. Take note, with this amendment, once again, of your amendments to a President-in-Office's decree. In other words, you are actually coming here and saying that we are legislating in such a way that in a few months' time you are amending a presidential decree which you yourself have brought in here too. Date of birth: 127/2017. You are not amending any legislative initiative taken by another government in the past. You come along, bring a presidential decree within the same time - in 2017 - and after a few months change it again. So, if this isn't an example of a bad, a rough legacy, then what is it? As far as the amendment is concerned, with a general number of 1369 and a special 18, we will be positive. For Amendment No 1370, we will be positive, but, Mr Minister, I must point out a problematic paragraph, namely paragraph 2, which says that within fourteen working days if applications have not been answered, they are considered to be positive and, of course, concerns opinions, approvals, conclusions from among others, building auditors. You know what's being created here. I will give you one example in particular: if anyone makes a complaint about the building auditors, and one needs to be taken over, and this building auditor has not received any response within 14 days, it is considered positive. You understand what a major problem arises in terms of legality. Nevertheless, because we understand the purpose of this amendment, we will be positive, but we must take note of it. As regards the amendment, with a general number of 1372 and a special number 21, we are negative, Mr Georgiodas said so too, and I think he argued. I shall close with the amendment, with a general number of 1373 and a specialist 22, in which we will be positive. So, ladies and gentlemen, once again, at least as a New Democracy, I think we are taking a responsible stand in this Chamber. We're not here to be negative to everything. From there on, however, do not expect that the wrong texts in this Chamber will not be supported. On the contrary, we will highlight them and perform our role as Civic Opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, too. Mr Papachristopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of the ANELs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr President. It was a year ago when the Prime Minister came back from a summit and wrote all the newspapers about a journey he made back to Paris that he went for entertainment. They made scripts, his best friends, the White Tower, and stuff like that. It was the Prime Minister's first meeting with the then-approved President of France, McCron. Macron came to Greece and the Prime Minister met with the President, France, and possibly an equal partner, following what is happening in Germany, where a government cannot be built, in the Eurozone and in the European Union. Second incident: Martin Schultz. Some people underestimated him. He said he would sit in the opposition and we were glad to hear the Prime Minister's suggestion that another cleanliness of positions and another way to get in and work for the good of many. At the moment, Martin Schultz - we know that Germany's social face is against austerity - is talking to Mrs Merkel and there is a great chance that the Ministry of Finance, which we so much care about, will have it for the Social Democrats, namely the SPD. The honourable Member, Mr Shoeble, who has drawn so much from him, is dismantled by the President of the German Parliament. Thirdly, I remember that some people then mocked the Prime Minister who went and met in Portugal with Antonio Costa. For those who do not remember his government it is even based on left-wings. Mario Sentenno was Minister at that time, no one knew him, today he replaces Düsseblum with the Presidency of the Eurogroup. And for those who forget, Jeremy Corbin didn't become Prime Minister. The first polls gave him twenty - four units back. Theresa May won him for a while. Jeremy Corbin really speaks with very warm words about the Greek Government. That's it today. He must be a believer, blind, not to see that the juncture favours our country. Instead, the second nature of many of the speakers has become the dangers, the overstatement that sometimes touches the limits of hysteria, beyond the incredible inaccuracies we hear every day. The Theanos Fotio itself had to come to know that it was not only those who had one or two children, but those who had three, four and five. I have a positive comment to make: 'Saudi Arab gate' did not hear it very much today. To its credit the flagship of the conservative party, the newspaper "Kathimerini", ignores it on its first page for days and I believe this to its director, Alexis Papachelas, beyond the disagreements we may have. Within two speeches, the first speech and the denology of the Honorable Chief of Officerial Response changed the plan. Well, we started by looting, and then they asked why we didn't get the money. Indeed, in the second speech by the seventy-fifth Members of the New Democracy - I was present, with my eyes - they were less than fifteen Members. And when the honorable leader of the Democratic Alliance took the floor, the parliament was completely empty, the Prime Minister had spoken, he had mentioned the name of Mr Sfakianakis and no one was listening anymore. Nevertheless, some people, I believe selfishly, tried to support the 'Saudi Arab gate' with fake documents. Orthographic errors! They didn't come out. And they went on - oh of the miracle! - that the ISIS was given weapons. That is why I think the measure has been lost, and today I have not heard it. But I heard about the auctions. Because I have learned to speak with evidence, I would like to refer to three cases that have been put forward by a particular newspaper, I do not want to project it. An incident was an auction in Sepolis. Indeed, poor house, with one difference: we asked who was the notary who did this auction and there was no one. Official communication from the Association of Symbolists. What exactly happened? A private borrower has no money to give to him by the borrower, he has a mortgage on his house and has been the private one and nothing more. This is in a specific newspaper article. The second auctioning house was in Agios Theodores, in my places down in Corinthia, where there was still no auction. It was a reference to a guarantor, a business loan, and not a borrower. Both cases, both the first and the second, even had a second residence. We are moving on to the third incident - the famous auctions I am talking about - which is not about auctioning, but about confiscation. I could mention infinite examples. He played with rabies - forgive me the word "lysa" - first news on the channels "take homes of the poor, etc.". At the same time - and to get to know ourselves, an incredible news that should play headlines, which was an indirect exit to the markets, around 30 billion, has shown huge success - the Regling industry says that the rest of the 86 billion can use it to pay off your debt on better terms, at much lower interest rates. These aren't first news in the papers anywhere. At the same time, to speak with data and not with estimates, "HANDESBLATT": "Small miracles in Greece", "BLOOMBERG": "Recovering investor confidence", "TENEO INTELLIGENCE": "Net exit for Greece on the markets". Reserve and pillow 12 to 15 billion, "FITCH": "Object of all clear exit". All those in charge of the European Union, none except Siomple. Poor Shoeble! Objection? The excesses of the Officerial Representation and the Democratic Compact. That's fine. What do I mean? I believe that something is changing in this country, and it is the deadly spears of a system - I am sorry to say it - that had learned to make lists in 1st and 2nd Athens, he had learned to fix the Ministerial Council, to arrange for who will become Minister and who will not, and above all, he had learned to raise Prime Ministers. There's no such thing today. Mistakes - I'm the last one to say we didn't - yes, we did. One thing, however, does not do and have it very well in their minds. If the country arrived here, it arrived because some wicked scientists - because it was working the political system for a hundred, two hundred families for forty years - took care of their money being in offshore, in economic heavens - not to recall Panama Papers, Paradise Papers, etc. Today, as ever, with mistakes - only dictators make mistakes - none of the civilian staff has dared to put their hand on honey. And this country will actually be back. It turns, I tell you directly, the third assessment is over and everyone knows it. They know that on January 22nd this end is typical. They all know that by the end of August we are finally coming out of the memorandum. We don't celebrate, we don't triumph. Yeah, Golgotha and tough is, but no one puts your hand on honey. Politicians who govern are honest, clean. This, the Greek citizen feels it and understands it. We're not going back anymore. And because I was in plenary before, where the level of the dialogue between the Greek Parliament and the Greek Parliament at times fell down, I make an appeal, because I believe in all the groups there are serious politicians, disagreements, this level of keeping it up, as some older politicians had it, and expel as quickly as possible some people who are sluggish in this Parliament have no abstract. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u133	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr President. To begin with, I would like to say that our democracy has both maturity and antibodies to fascism, and all the democratic political forces must protect them, cultivate them, translate them into the next generations, because the foundation of the Greek society is precisely the denial and battle against fascism. Michael Myroyannis, Dimitris Konninos and Dimitris Theodoras were murdered by the junta, as were the other dead of the Polytechnic. Of course, its nostalgics have every right to want to rewrite history, but they must know that they will find a wall insuperable to them, against their constant efforts to spread these poisonous ideas of hatred and anti-democratic practices in Greek society. Before I come to the subject of ratification of the contract with HELLAS SAT, I would like to refer to the amendment that we are tabling. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposed provisions of the first article define the procedure for the first staffing of the "National Centre for Audiovisual and Communications S.A.", the so-called EMEA, so as to enable it to directly meet its staff needs and to function more effectively and efficiently. At the same time, the issues of the establishment, operation and publicity of the EMEA are specified. There are also questions of the election and term of office of elected representatives, officials of the Ministry of Digital Policy at the Ministry's single staff and disciplinary boards, so that the establishment of these Ministries will be completed by the end of February next year for reasons of order. There are transfers of officials from the press and communication offices abroad, as well as posting issues due to the spouses of officials. It is clear that the co-service also employs the general public officials. The deadlines for the commencement and completion of the procedure for the transfer of officials to the external press offices and for the officials who have been assigned time to the Ministry, following the entry into force of the organization, are more flexible to inform them of the issues relating to the crises and movements at the foreign press offices. I'm coming to the second article. The legislative framework is cleared up by inactive provisions confusing secondary broadcasting positions. This issue is regulated by Article 65 of Law 4455/2013. With regard to pay-TV - and here I would like to say a little more - it is now permitted for a company that has a licence for pay-TV to have a free television station and a free-take radio station to participate in others, since it does not control them, in accordance with the criteria which are identical to those on free-take television. Here, because a noise has gone up, I would like to say that it is the incorporation of an OECD directive, number 52, in its recommendations. When it comes to the liberation of the hairdresser's profession, some in here are fanatical and there are grounds for fire in favour of the reforms. Once he goes to open up another profession, the owner of the TV station, we have a refusal. I do not really understand that, but, I think, it is a statement of certain intentions. Accordingly, a joint Ministerial Decision of the Minister for Digital Policy and the Minister for Finance is provided for, following the assistance of the independent authorities and the National Telecommunications Commission and the agreement of the National Broadcasting Council, which determines the amount of the financial consideration either on the one hand when obtaining the licence or the annual price to be paid for subscription television. In relation to the press, two daily political newspapers are now allowed to be owned either morning or afternoons, and so far one of the two should be morning and the second afternoon. The same criteria for ownership control are introduced for both spouses and relatives as for free television, in order to remove the ambiguities of legislation by different arrangements on related matters. With regard to the radios of the political parties, these stations may normally participate in the licensing of digital radios, respecting the terms of the law contained in the draft law that was consulted. Finally, the legislative improvements to the ratification of the contract were tabled a moment ago, adding at the end the words 'and other provisions' and as you all heard a moment ago, we moved the dates by one month to ensure that there was a functional comfort in its implementation. I now come to satellite issues. There was the opposition claim that there was too much preparation from the previous government, that we found it and had nothing to do with it. I have to tell you that HELLAS SAT has requested renewal of the contract since 2013. Of course, in February 2014, with the indication "urgent" he sent a letter to the then Secretary-General of Telecommunications to the then Secretary-General Menelao Daskalakis, Mrs Asmakopoulou, with notification to Mr Papadopoulos and Mr Chrysochoidis, saying: "Please do not act. The existing contract will be terminated. Negotiations have not begun.' Look out, this February of 2014. In July, if I'm not mistaken, Mr. Papadopoulos said he'd make a commission to see it. Obviously, nothing happened. And we came before a great void, which of course we come to cover with this convention. That's the bitter truth. I put the relevant document in the Minutes. [[At this point, Minister Nikolaos Papapas presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And in order not to be laughed at, it is an area where satellite communications are moving too much money. It is an industry in which there are interests. I do not understand why there was no provision from the previous government to conclude the agreement, so that others would benefit. Of course, I should like to stress the third transponder - because the original agreement had three transponders - that HELLAS SAT 2 lived with the two transponders to be assigned and there was absolutely no provision for the third to be used. The result is that Greek radio and television pay to use satellite services. Secondly, I think that the issue of 'confidentiality' has been resolved in an operational way. Mrs. Asimakopoulou visited the Ministry and had the opportunity to see the classified parts of the contract, where there are maps and frequencies used by the Army. I think that every intelligent person in the Chamber understands that we have done well and described them as such and are, of course, being detained at the Ministry. If it takes again, a party representative will see them. There's no objection. There is a claim for incomplete documentation and valuation of the exchanges. We repeat, as we have said in the Committees: a task force has been set up, with no cost for the State. It assessed, based on its ‘EUROPENSULT’ study, the existing material and the internationally prevailing transponder prices and international practice for contracts of this type and the study of this group is also classified and accessible, under the same conditions as I described before. We asked when the exchanges and transponders would be given. There is already the procedure laid down in the Convention. The Convention Monitoring Committee has been set up. The timetable is fully followed and the first transponder has already been delivered since October 2017. The completion of the node facility will gradually take place, as you understand, and in line with the needs of the Armed Forces, the Port, the Police and the National Intelligence Service. There were questions to secure the public in unforeseen situations. There are special guarantees in Article 52 of the Convention, where its termination is provided for. There is a 24-hour reserve system which is leased to another provider at the expense of the contractor. And the system is, of course, controlled in Greece. For the total price of the contract and what we have achieved we have spoken in detail. So we've practically had seven transponders for twenty years that's the life of the satellite. I have to tell you that if anyone decides to make exclusive commercial use of the transponders, the market values the price for each transponder from 1 to 3 million a year. You realise that multiplication gives a sum of hundreds of millions, over 250, 280 million, if I'm not mistaken. But where is the substance? The essence lies in the fact that none of this was done before, unfortunately. And I come here sincerely with good will to discuss the future. No, though, to come and tell us to recognise your good political practice, when I deliberately say, I cannot believe that you have escaped - you have allowed this story to go to the rocks and anyone in Greece who then needed satellite services, whether it was the security bodies of individuals or the public television, to have no choice but to rent services from a satellite, who is neither established in Greece nor the Greek orbital position has any rights on it at all. I therefore think that the interests of the country are guaranteed. I would not like to repeat myself. It was very critical to sign the contract and it was, of course, wrong, not to say criminal, to sell the satellite along with the sale of OTE. It may fall within the ideology of extreme neoliberalism that this type of major infrastructure must be allocated, but I must tell you that experience has shown that it is not the private companies involved in such "heavy sports", the states are. And because there was criticism from another wing, the consortium "Arabsat" is consortium state. They're twenty-six state-owned companies. That's what we inherited. So we inherited a contract with a state-owned company and of course guaranteed the rights of the public in the Greek "land" in Space, 39th east above Kenya's national park. There is now the satellite and the interests of the public are, of course, guaranteed with the hub stations and the two hundred terminals that we will receive, of course, also with the commitment to stay the control centre in Greece. That is what our negotiation has brought about, and I think that along with this initiative you realise that the initiative to introduce the draft law on the establishment of the Greek Space Agency lies in the committees of Parliament, which we are starting to discuss tomorrow. With the same draft law, we also proceed with the adoption of national legislation and a strategy for the exercise of space activities. I think that exploiting the new technologies, but especially the space-related applications, is a very important reform, because what I have seen in the one year existence of the Ministry of Digital Policy is that Greece is missing nothing. The - unfortunately scattered - powers and research and innovation and entrepreneurship are not missing. What was missing? There was no national planning, prioritisation and, of course, a plan that will, first of all, prioritise the needs of society and ensure that these very serious scientific achievements cross into production, everyday life and improve the quality of life, living and working for citizens. There was no reason, for example, for the fact that Greek universities had the absolute possibility of building micro-software from their first key element to the last stage. And the raw materials from Greece take them. But these Greek universities have never been integrated into a national planning. Some time ago, the Greek universities built microprocessors, but they were integrated into a European project, the so-called 'QB 50', and for the first time this time, with the cooperation of three Greek universities, Greece will develop the complete system of microprocessors, exclusively Greek, exclusively its own and free of charge for launching, because we have accumulated rights in the European Space Agency. I think the days that we've been underestimating this conversation should stay behind. We must not go back to jokes, to whipping or to any kind of confrontation. We must not, because we are a country that has the scientific potential and must demonstrate that it also has a political system that has political maturity for this type of issue to be managed effectively. We are now going to the point where it seems that until the end of the competition we will be troubled. We have the expiry of the deadline for the submission of the dossiers on 8 January and arguments which we heard in consultation with the ownership of the channels, we hear them here as arguments - unfortunately - of political forces. Let me read what Rodolf Moronis wrote on Facebook, if I'm not mistaken, today. It says: "If the submission of "substantially" in advance of the candidates in the National Broadcasting Council's notice on licenses was foreseen, they would again appeal to the Council of State with slightly different arguments, of course. Now that not explicitly provided, I read that they are preparing to appeal because they are not provided for." You understand what this is all about. I mean, we have an appeal for any possibility here. And if there is no question whatsoever, the participants in the tender are obliged to pay a guarantee letter of 3.5 million, which is the price for the first year for a licence and, of course, to pay a capital of 8 million, the origin of which must prove that it does not come from illegal activities, for the establishment of the company which will participate in the tender. What public competition is being conducted and there is control over the final price, which we do not know now? I never think anything. To avoid fooling ourselves, the request, unfortunately, of the ownership side, was that existing channels should not have the obligation to pay a guarantee of good execution and that only those who do not have the channels should have that obligation. You realise - and I say it now here with an open heart and a consensus - that this thing does not go outside the Constitutional Court, that is, for the same competition to have different conditions for one participant and different conditions for another. I don't think we can really go on with that kind of logic. In any case, I think we have come up against a criticism which was relatively mild tone, because the political parties are aware that we have a National Broadcasting Council which has made unanimous decisions, that the tender has been published, that everyone is doing their preparation, technical and legal, that it will be carried out and that we will finally proceed to the next stage. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Allow me, Mr President, only for two minutes. I think we have seen the last few days of events over the political developments of the second phase of our governance, that is, the phase of governance where the disaster account, which the Securitised Opposition of Public Dialogue, has already been broken down, is looking for references or made lies to fight against. That's what this is about. Sadly, it is incarcerated, unfortunately, the Civic Opposition in the account of successful governance Samara - Mitsotakis and that cannot be tolerated. We inner-party problems, which are happening lately, consider them imminent. The substance is elsewhere. The essence lies in the fact that these competitions, which have recently emerged with the moves of your leadership, existed. It's not that they didn't exist. But they overlaps under this expectation that the government would be overthrown before the end of the assessment. Because there is a reality that cannot be tolerated. I hear your representatives go up to this Step and talk about 'anaemic growth'. Yes, sir. In other words, you admit that the country has entered growth for a third quarter. Wait for the revised data, because we had this phenomenon in the previous phases, I have to tell you where the data is being reviewed for the best. We are optimistic. Let's see where this year's gonna close. But let us agree that we have entered a different phase, where the government has generally put the country on the path of development, which can and is fair to the mechanisms of redistribution and social protection that we build day after day and take criticism from the political representatives of the party that has submerged the country and destroyed 25% of the Gross Domestic Product, that our development is not dynamic. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing again and again.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. I therefore think that the essence of political dialogue and political competition is now on the table: we must now discuss seriously and without the whispers of your Vice-President. Your Vice-President has made it a system just to climb up here, to despise anyone who sees it in order to get two - three times the speech on staff. But I fear that it has become a strategic choice to adopt not himself, but the hideous ideas he carries with him since he was in the cliff. Because I haven't heard him go up to this Step and tell us what he believed and served when he was in his party, Mr. Karatzafiri, he left at the entrance of the New Democracy as he entered. We haven't heard of that. On the other hand, we see the party of Officerial Vice-Presidents being persecuted day after day with these hideous ideas and let this propaganda walk in public dialogue. That is, unfortunately, the essence. And where do we have to focus? We must focus on political dialogue, on the following questions: Why does this program work? Why do targets succeed, and second year in turn we give dividends to those who need it? Firstly, because we have successfully fought for lower surpluses. Where you are talking about the catastrophic negotiation, it is this negotiation that has enabled us to divide divide dividends because the surpluses have been lowered. If we had stayed with yours, Samara's'success story', 4.2%, 4.5% and 5%, and 6.5% that you signed in the first and second memorandums, we could not share anything! We'd be coming over this time, and we'd be talking about measures. That's the truth. The second reason why this programme succeeds is that social protection mechanisms are being built and the world, which paid the'marble' from your own government, realises that there is a government that prejudges its basic needs or benefits - which go up - either with social solidarity income or with free access to medical care. And of course something that never went through your mind is that we had elections with the deal on the table. On the contrary, New Democracy is trapped in a strategy that will require the Greek people in 2019 to apologize for their choices. That's what you're gonna do. You're not gonna make any self-criticism. By 2019 you will say nowhere and nothing that you went wrong. You will be talking about'success story'. Then the country will have taken even more steps, it will be in even better condition, unemployment will be below 20%, and the Greek people will choose to continue along the path towards a better future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, fifty-three students and students and four educational sessions since the 13th Patras High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We continue with the secondaryities of the rapporteurs and of the special speakers. I imagine you want the special speakers to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u136	Of course!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u137	Let Mrs. Asmakopoulou speak first.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u138	Mrs Asimakopoulou, you will be given his place by Mr. Meikopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u139	I don't want her to give her to me. It's polite of him, but I'd like to hear him.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u140	Then, Mr Meikopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u141	Thank you very much, Mr President. I believe that with the speech of Minister Pappas, as well as by my report and the speech of the parliamentary representative Mr Katsi, today's bill has been completely exhausted. I believe that it has been demonstrated to both the ladies and gentlemen of the House, but also to the entire Greek people, who are following us, the importance of this bill, the potential that opens up for this place and the potential of the political system. I have nothing more to add. I think that, despite any variations between Coupling and Officerial Response, it is created by the context in which the common place is established, that the renewed Convention, in conjunction with the creation of the Greek Space Agency, creates a field on which political, economic and social added value can be produced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, too. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mrs Asmakopoulou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I'm waiting for the Minister to make public relations, and obviously still...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u144	Please, Minister, your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u145	When I have your full attention, Minister, I will begin. Thank you again, Mr President. I wanted the Minister to hear, because I asked him a number of questions and none of them I answered, except if I understood correctly, you tell us that the public - if you said public - earned EUR 250 million from this contract. Because, if you said that, I would like to ask you in the context of the excellent debate that I have had with your members, because you did not take this money. This is a question that arises on its own merits. I didn't expect you to say such a colossal number. That's why - you see - you're worried about me. So let's go see your other argument. Your other argument, then, was that in 2014 someone sent us a letter and told us that the contract had to be renewed. When does the contract end, Minister? In 2021.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u146	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u147	It didn't end and you blame us. So your argument is that we in 2014 were blocking. But now what year do we have? If I'm not cheating, we're almost in 2018. So, since you are saying that we were blocking in 2014, when you came in 2015, why didn't you turn it off, and we're two and a half, almost three years later, and we're talking about it today? We were late in 2014, but you, who did two and a half years and you're in the House today and we're talking about it, were not in the way! Each one takes his own conclusions. I come to your amendment. We will be discussing tomorrow - tomorrow we have a meeting in committee again - the Space Agency, where it will be very interesting to see your mutation, because you told us today that all we do should be public. ARABSAT has said that it is a public body; it is a public body. But tomorrow you will come and tell us that the Space Service must be private. Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u148	Private?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u149	That's how you're gonna tell us. But I saw it, I read it. Of course, you will tell us that they should also be governed by private law rules. You will tell us that space policy must not be made in this way. That's how you're gonna tell us. So choose what suits you! Because the ultimate goal is how to make easier recruitments. In this case he had no recruitment. He had paybacks. And you leave shadows for the past, but I didn't get the answer how far the rewards are. I don't leave shadows, I ask questions and I point out when there are no clean answers. So let's go to your argument on the licence amendment. You are therefore telling us that we are adopting the arguments of the Canadian authorities. I told you, we express the position of the New Democracy. After all, I imagine that the top argument of the canalarchs was that it is too unfair that they have such a high tax. You tell me, the whole world is complaining because it's too high a tax. Come on, let's go, where this request from the canals you came here last week, and if I'm not cheating, you satisfied it. So why are you saying that we are in association with the demands of the canals when you are the one meeting them? We'll see along the way how the competition turns out, Mr. Pappa. We told you there was a precedent. We're not talking from our head. There is a precedent where the process had 'Kalogizka' and 'voskopopia' phenomena. You are defending your legislative framework. Leave the ERR and what Mr. Moronis says on facebook. You defend your law. Based on your law, there's a competition. It'll show up on the way. Like also - to close, Mr President, and thank you - there will be what you are developing about the future of development. We told you that growth was anemical. You, when the Samara government started with -7% and delivered with 0.8%, said that it was also anemic, slim growth. When there was a primary surplus and there was a distribution of social dividends, where were you to say these grand words about yourself now? Where have you been? Then you were in the squares, then you were on the raids. And you didn't get rid of the Greek people. You have been given a mandate to make a policy and you will be judged, Mr Pappa, and you and your government, by the result. We will be judged on how we are doing our opposition, because we are opposition. Finally, if you're going to understand one thing, understand that you're ruling, so you're responsible. And when I hear your parliamentary representative with his finger tell us that we did, we did, we did... what we did. You guys came to fix all this. Is that why you're here? Your defence of work is that what we did was worse, in your view? If you're coming, fix them. It's your job. You rule. That's what you promised the Greek people. So what are you telling us? That you're doing another thing, but isn't it as bad as what we did? These are arguments that do not stand, not in the Greek Parliament! I don't expect you to answer me, Minister. But if you are going to answer me, the main question is this: why didn't you get the money in hand? It's over. That's the question. If you're going to answer me, answer me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u150	Thank you. Mr. Maniotis, will you take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u151	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u152	Which one of the special speakers wants to talk to?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u153	I, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u154	I too, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u155	Okay. Mr. Synthrakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Mr President. I had left some amendments out of my first place. Amendment No 1369/18, concerning the liability of legal persons by criminal offences against criminal offences, etc., we are voting against it. And this amendment is part of a logic that every little bit has to change. It is the case of Law No.3691/2008, which has also become the law - tire. As a JRC, we voted against him. It is a law that had come quickly to deal with criminal activities through money laundering. In fact, the 2008 Act and this amendment, like the amendments to date, serve only one objective: to strengthen the competitiveness of monopolistic groups, in order to lay rules on sharp competition between them. This, of course, capitalism cannot deal with it objectively, because competition itself is its own child. Let us not forget the four freedoms of Maastricht, including the freedom of movement of capital. So what is this amendment going to do? He comes to broaden the framework of the law of 2008, including legal entities. Nothing more and nothing less. With regard to Amendment No 1372/21, which concerns the provision of cleanliness and storage requirements for ministries, independent authorities, etc. with eighteen-month contracts, we will not get tired of saying it and claiming permanent and stable work with full employment rights and recruitment that meets all the needs. Not only is the government talking about resolving these employment issues, but on the contrary it generalizes fixed-term contracts, and in this case it also forbids them to be converted into an indefinite period of time. Nor does the OTA workers, except the Skourlets Act - we all know how many problems and ambiguities this law has - and it does not involve the workers in the regions, who, of course, do not fall under either this amendment or the Skourlets Act. Amendment 1373/22 concerning pre-school institutions, homeless people, etc. We are very concerned about this amendment. In essence, it is moving within the framework of the government's commitments to the partners, aimed at the overall reform of the prosperous benefits which, at best, will be balanced at some point with the minimum income of social solidarity. Nevertheless, in the first article, which regulates the delegation to state-funded institutions, they are planning, implementing and managing welfare policy programmes, such as de-institutionalisation structures. Dehydration generally has a positive load. In order for it to have a sound and effective content, however, it must be accompanied by a developed system of state structures, adequate and comprehensive staffing and funding, so that the structures can respond to their mission. Demonstration, that is, requires full and increased state responsibility. But the government's policy is completely in the opposite direction. It uses dematerialisation and dematerialisation in order to close public institutions and hospitals, transfer responsibility to families, delegation to NGOs, in order to reduce state expenditure. We therefore vote 'at present' on the basis of the above remarks, as well as any possibility of exploiting these programmes by the people concerned. The second article regulates the extension once again of the “Housing and Reintegration” programme for three months until 31-3-2018, the redefinition of the terms and conditions of the programmes and of the beneficiaries for housing, training and professional reintegration of the homeless, as well as the possibility of allocating these programmes to the National Institute for Labour and Human Resources. Ladies and gentlemen, the homeless and the unemployed obviously did not fall out of the sky. It is the result of this exploitive system, but also of the policy in favour of capital that has as a head and this SYRIZA-ANEL coexistence, like the previous ones. In fact, these impoverished ones also call them advantageous. The homeless is the benefit, look out! Like the government - like the previous ones - is doing them a favor and giving them these crumbs from these programmes. But even these crumbs give them with the system of witnessing the drop, "for three months and then we see". Furthermore, the provision for the redefinition of the terms and conditions of the programmes, the training and the vocational reintegration of the homeless and groups, in a Greek way, means greater strictness of these benefits - the crumbs, that is, - to the most impoverished of the impoverished and, at the same time, ensuring cheap labour for entrepreneurs, since these benefits will be linked to the work of these people in business. I should like to close, Mr President, by saying this: today's debate in plenary has shown what? That in the end the large capital and its associations have too many political reserves, whether they are right or left. And they are aspirationed to sit on the neck of the people as many years as possible, after forty years of PASOK and New Democracy, after four memorials, after a lot of anti-grass measures that are literally tormenting the people. The people have drawn valuable conclusions from these policies. So he must take a very big step, reject these policies, close his eyes to mocking and imprisonment and follow a different path, so that he is deceived by the false hopes of SYRIZA and the New Democracy and recruited with the Communist Party of Greece on the road to the struggle. Opportunities are too many. It is the strike on 14 December, that is all these strike movements, the syllables, the struggles and the action of the trade union movement, the poor farmers and the self-employed, that really enables them to draw valuable conclusions from government policy, so that the people can follow their own path to recover what they lose and not be content with the crusts that this government gives them or will give them tomorrow - a day after tomorrow, any urban government that comes to power. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, too. Mr. Shahinides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Mr President. I have listened with interest to many of the speakers, and I understand that you may think that you are our political and ideological opponents. Here all I have to say is that I'm really sorry. All I can feel for all of you is grief and nothing more. If someone else were from another party, he would speak with much tougher words, words that we have heard repeatedly in this Chamber about political rhetoric. I won't fall to that level. I would just like you to tell us how you and the democrats define democracy. Your anti-Fascist and anti-democratic, I would say, reflexively, always operate selectively. You said you fought fascism and that, if necessary, you would do it again. We say you fought nationalism and you were crushed. In Europe historically in two countries there was an armed conflict between nationalists and Bolsheviks. One was in Greece of the gang, and one was in Spain of Jose Primo de Rivera. In both cases you've been crushed. We have to say that we have defended and will always defend Greece, democracy. We did it before and say that if necessary, we are able to do it again. As for the placement of a party's parliamentary representative on the fact that we should be expelled from this Chamber, I would like to remind him that nothing at all owes anyone in this Chamber, unlike many of you in this Chamber, who owe everything to the Greek people you have devastated. The only person responsible for firing us out of this Chamber is the Greek people, who put us in this Chamber. But at last, if you want to have a level in the debate within Parliament, answer the following questions, Minister: How do you define democracy? How do you understand the fight against tax evasion? How's growth for you? We've got a working middle age. What did the poet want to tell us about 'no house in the hands of a banker'? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, too. Minister, would you like to close?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u160	Three minutes, I'll need it, Mr. President. Starting with the latter, I would like to say that it is a key feature of the extreme right-wing parties in their programmes to have the abolition of trade unions first, so I think that is anger.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u161	For the far right-wingers you're right. We're nationalists.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u162	Yes, of course. This is a given situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u163	The amendment...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u164	Of course, this idea has been served by some who have grown into parties that are the most central political scene and not your own political school. Now you've told us you're Franco's fans too. Thank you. We understand before whom...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u165	Jose Primo de Rivera.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u166	I think the Greek people and our youth understand who are in front of and what your ideological and political proposals are. But I think that humanity has memory too, and very soon and quickly, the progressive democratic forces will react to the wave of nationalism that emerges, in the new wave of hatred, because the danger to Europe is not your political formation, are other political formations that in other countries have managed to enter the centre of politics. In any case, I now come to the questions of satellites, which have not been answered. I think that Mrs Asmakopoulou's position is very helpful to anyone who is following the debate. According to New Democracy, the rights we have gained from negotiating with HELLAS SAT should be sold, valued in money and then say: 'Do the police want satellite services? Go buy. Does the Army want satellite services? You go to the market, too. Does ERT want satellite services? Go to the market too." I welcome this position and speak sincerely because it gives the Greek people to understand the different approach. We say on the left that these choices do not give the opportunity for national patriotic planning in relation to the exploitation of the country's rights in space. Although these issues, which concern very critical infrastructure related to national security, we leave them on the market, so long as we are burned! So we did well and did not just sell the rights. You poorly did and sold when we had them. This is our position and it is, I think, crystal clear and clear and it also helps the Greek people understand. Obviously there is no private company compared to the Greek Space Organisation. The Greek Space Agency will be governed by the provisions of public utility enterprises, the CECs. Of course, it will also have exceptions in order to be able to bring people who have committed worldwide in space and we cannot bring them in and tell them "Come to get a new entrant's salary and to contribute to the development of the space policy of Greece". You said something about the advertising tax. The soum, the sum of the charges and the reductions will lead to an unfavourable position for the licensed stations. I'll explain what I mean. First, the advertising tax is reduced for licensed persons from 1 April of the following year. It is reduced, that is, when they have begun to pay the price for permits. Something that we must not forget, because I think you voted for too, is that there is also the burden that has arisen for the EDPS, salvation, i.e....
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u167	So until April 1st, they've paid the price?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u168	I say that the provision, which we brought to reduce the tax, has a date of application on 1 April 2018.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u169	I get it. Will they have paid for leave then?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u170	Sure. So by then they will still pay 20%. The licensed will have two charges, which will result from the fee for the authorisation and the charge for the SIRENE Bureaux. They will also have a relief, resulting from a reduction in advertising tax. So the suma's gonna be bigger. For the Pappa law, let me - and apologise for the lapsus linguae, I got away with it, I was thinking of Law No.4339 - you have to decide what is happening: Or our law has been broken down and it has nothing to do with what exists, according to which the notice was issued, or everything is made on the basis of our law. But at any rate, at the moment, what has happened has been done with the agreement of the National Broadcasting Council and its unanimous decisions. That is why we are constantly calling on you, and every day publicly, to support the National Broadcasting Council in its bid for licensing. You referred again to the issue of governance, Samara. You know, the people have made their historical assessment of this governance. What's the matter? The question is that this is a question of the future from your own political options. I mean, it's not the point that you did it, it's that you want to do it again, and with these drafts you're going. You will, in other words, go to the people and say that in July 2014, where you signed the infamous fifth evaluation, which had fifteen thousand redundancies in the public sector, well done. These ideas are being restored to the political scene, which is why they are being made timely. The people have appreciated your rule in the polls three times. The point is that it arises from your political choice, which I must tell you that I respect it sincerely and emphatically. I fully respect her. You say: 'We did well, the left does not do well, we will come back and do what we have done again'. Yes, sir. So the people will be asked on time and they will decide and I think they will decide, as I said in my position, to continue the course of stabilisation and recovery of the Greek economy. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information is hereby finalised: 'Renewal - Amendment - Consolidation of the Special License Convention on the exploitation of the exclusive right of the Greek State to access and use the nominal position of the 39th East on the track of the artificial geostatic satellites of the Earth and its associated telecommunications frequencies through the construction, launch, operation and commercial exploitation of a satellite system of pan-Hellenic and cross-border telecommunications under the name of ELAS SA (HELLAS SAT) and other provisions'. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u172	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u173	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u174	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u175	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u176	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u177	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u178	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u179	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u180	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information: ‘Renewation - Amendment - Consolidation of the Convention on the Special License of the exclusive right of the Greek State to access and use the nominal position of the 39 east on the orbit of the Earth's artificial geostatic satellites and its related telecommunications frequencies through the construction, launching, operation and commercial exploitation of a pan-Hellenic and cross-border satellite system under the name of HELLAS SAT (HELLAS SAT) and other provisions’, was accepted in principle by a majority. We are going to vote on the articles and they will be voted on separately. Asked by this House: Can Article first be accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u181	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u182	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u183	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u184	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u185	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u186	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u187	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u188	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u189	The first article was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the second paragraph as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u190	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u191	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u192	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u193	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u194	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u195	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u196	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u197	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u198	The second paragraph of Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does the House accept the amendment by a general number of 1367 and a special 16, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u199	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u200	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u201	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u202	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u203	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u204	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u205	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u206	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u207	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1367 and a special 16 was accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same articles. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number of 1368 and a special number of 17 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u208	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u209	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u210	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u211	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u212	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u213	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u214	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u215	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u216	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1368 and a special 17 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number of 1369 and a special 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u217	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u218	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u219	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u220	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u221	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u222	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u223	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u224	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u225	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1369 and a special 18 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number of 1370 and a special number 19 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u226	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u227	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u228	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u229	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u230	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u231	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u232	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u233	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u234	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1370 and a special 19 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment with a general number of 1372 and a special number of 21 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u235	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u236	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u237	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u238	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u239	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u240	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u241	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u242	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u243	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1372 and a special 21 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same articles. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number of 1373 and a special number of 22 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u244	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u245	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u246	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u247	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u248	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u249	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u250	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u251	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u252	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1373 and a special 22 was accepted by a majority as it stands and is part of the bill as the same articles. We are entering the vote of the nominated article of the bill. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u253	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u254	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u255	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u256	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u257	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u258	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u259	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u260	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u261	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information: "Renewation - Amendment - Consolidation of the Convention on the Provision of Special License for the Exploration of the exclusive right of the Greek State to access and use the nominal position of the 39 east on the orbit of the Earth's artificial geostatic satellites and its associated radio frequencies through the construction, launching, operation and commercial exploitation of a pan-Hellenic and cross-border satellite system under the name of ELLAS SAT (HELLAS SAT) and other provisions", was accepted in principle and on the articles. We move on to vote on the bill and on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u262	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u263	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u264	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u265	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u266	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u267	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u268	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u269	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u270	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information: ‘Renewation - Amendment - Consolidation of the Convention on the Special License for the Exploration of the exclusive right of the Greek State to access and use the nominal position of the 39 east on the track of the Earth's artificial geostatic satellites and associated telecommunications frequencies by building, launching, operating and marketing of a pan-Hellenic and cross-border satellite system under the name of ELLAS SAT (HELLAS SAT) and other provisions’, was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u271	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u272	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-05-S1-commons.u273	With the consent of the House at 18.02 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday, December 6, 2017, at 12.00 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: debate and decision, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure of the House for applications for waiver of immunity from Members' immunity, in accordance with the special agenda.
