ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-31-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the Parliament's 30-3-2017 approval, the minutes of its 2 meetings, of Thursday 30 March 2017, with regard to the vote on the whole draft law: ‘Standardisation of the Framework Agreement for Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States and Mongolia and other provisions’.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House. [[They are announced to the House by the Secretary of Parliament, Mr Mario Katsis, Member of the Thesprotia, the following:]] A. REFERENCES
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-31-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House the issue of Monday 3 April 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 655/27-3-2017 by MP II, New Democracy, Catherine Papakostas - Ironropoulou, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on security at parcel mission. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question by Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos to the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the support and upgrading of the TEI Messologist. 3. The question by No. 659/27-3-2017 was raised by the Deputy Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panagiotarou to the Minister of the Interior, on "annulment by Turkish agents and their representatives in Thrace". 4. The Question No 669/28-3-2017 by MP Aitolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Moraitis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport on the dangers of the national network of Amphisia - Lefkada - Preveza - Igoumenitsa. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 656/27-3-2017 by MP Achaias, New Democracy, Jasona Fotella, to the Minister of Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the recruitment of archaeological sites and museums. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 668/28-3-2017 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of the Interior, concerning the payment of recruits and the prevention of dismissal of contractors in the municipalities. 3. The 579/10-3-2017 topical question of the NYPD MEP Mr. Konstantinos Karagunis to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights concerning the decongestion of prisons and increasing crime. 4. The Question No 504/20-2-2017 by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about "the fulfilment of the Order of the Nation". 5. The Question No 530/24-2-2017 by Evia MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Michou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on "the retention of part of the OPEKEPE grants due to the failure to pay contributions to the GEOI". 6. The Question No 552/3-2017 by Z' Vice President of the Parliament and Mr Spyridon Lykoudis to the Minister of Health about the degraded state of health. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Nikolaos Igoumenidis to the Minister of Economy and Development about the replacement - extension of the existing damaged water network of the city of Heraklion Crete. 8. The Question by Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Finance concerning the sale of the "National Insurance". 9. The question asked by MP Evros of New Democracy, Anastasios Publisher to the Minister of Health, about the ‘tragic deficiencies at the Dumos Hospital, leading to shrinking, depreciation and deterioration’. 10. The Question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Health, on the problems of psychiatric Clinic of the General Hospital of Chania "Agios GEORGIOS". 11. The Question No 602/14-3-2017 by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the licenses of assistant teachers. 12. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the 'publishing of presidential decrees for the recognition of professional rights of TEI graduates'. 13. Observations of the Court of Justice Under No 596/13-3-2017, a topical question by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Helen Zarulia to the Foreign Minister on the subject "The World Bank "characterizes" the Aegean in Turkey". 14. Observed. The question by No 479/14-2-2017, by Evia MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Michou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, about the burden of marine ecosystems in the Mediterranean with radioactive waste. 15. The Question No 568/6-3-2017 by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Eleni Zaroulia to the Minister of the Interior on the subject "The Municipality of Kavala legalizes the pseudo-state in tourist exhibition in Constantinople". 16. Observations of the Committee of the Regions The question asked by MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARMAR Mr Ioannis Manatis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the activation of the decision on the pilot study of the Social Control Zone (Z.E.) The Argos. 17. The Question No 571/7-3-2017 by the Independent MEP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Economy and Development on "the case of beer and whether there are a jury in the Competition Committee". 18. The 584/13-2017 topical question by MP Kilkis of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of Finance about the "unreasonable divestment of the profitable Egnatia Road S.A.". 19. The current question by MP B' Thessaloniki of the Independent Greeks George Lazaridis to the Minister of the Environment and Energy concerning support for employment and production of Greek industries in Chora. 20. The Question No 601/14-3-2017 by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the recognition of service at ERT SA. for officials of Presidential Decree No 164/2006.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-31-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The first question will be debated under No 2787/23-1-2017 by Vice-President of the Parliament and MP for Athens of New Democracy. Nikita Kaklamanis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the management and exploitation of the real estate of the Ministry of Health and Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity. Mrs Ahtsoglou will answer the timely question. Mr. Kaklamani, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-31-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, this question, as you will know, was made in writing and addressed to two ministries, yours and the Ministry of Health. If you ask me what was the best job I did when I was Minister of Health - then it was the Ministry of Health and Social Solidarity, that is, we also had the welfare part - I would tell you that we recorded the entire property that the Ministry of Health and Welfare had. Actually, it was the property of the former PICA. When the PICA broke up, his property stayed in the welfare section and we enrolled it in the mortgage room. We have sent the Ministry of Finance this task, which is a thousand pages, and we have asked to make us an economic assessment handy. So the financial assessment from the Ministry of Finance - I am certainly speaking for 2005, so it is not today's prices - was about EUR 3 billion. This meant that by exploiting this property - and I say to you by exploiting and not divesting, because most of it was of legacy, which means that you couldn't sell this property, but you could use it - at least 50% of the costs of the then Ministry of Health and Welfare could be covered by the use of this huge property. We have created a draft law, which I have brought here today, and I will submit to the Minutes, where we were building an anonymous real estate company with a share belonging to the Ministry of Health and Social Solidarity, so that this company can make use of this huge property. I left the ministry without having to vote for it. It had passed since the Commission at the time. Unfortunately, none of my successors were involved until 2010 when the crime was committed, for me, as far as the health and welfare sector is concerned and the then PASOK government "broken" the Ministry of Health and Welfare in two and transferred Welfare to your Ministry. I now do not know what happened after the break-up of this property which was typically part of the then single Ministry of Health and Welfare. Has the property been transferred to you? Is this fortune left behind in the Ministry of Health? Has any of you been involved? You weren't in the first government. I considered it a Greek politician, regardless of whether I had done the job, to inform your colleague, Mr Fotio, who was responsible at that time. I went and delivered it to Cd, which is a thousand pages. It's the recording of all the real estate. Mrs. Fotou was excited. He told me he'd take advantage of it. He even told me he'd tell me who he got it from. That's not what I'm particularly interested in. He said to me: 'You did bring me a treasure'. It's been a year and a half. I don't know what's happened. That is the question I ask you today. I am focusing on one rather than the others that you see in the written question. Has your ministry dealt with this matter? Is the fortune here to you? If she's here, what have you done with her? Parts of this property that are incredibly "fillets" - will I say in my dentistry - are they still in the ministries, one or the other, or have they been transferred to the superstition? They are incredibly 'fillets'. So I want to know what your strategy is on this. You are not personally responsible, but you are the minister of a government that I had informed since the first three months of 2015. Of course, I had informed all the previous ones and did not deal with this huge issue. You should know that all this work was delivered to the then Minister of Finance, Mr Stournara. No one's been involved. When a few indicative things of this property are heard in dentistry, they will rub their ears and their eyes by those who hear them. So I would like to see where this story lies.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-31-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-31-S1-commons.u6	Thank you for the question you are asking, because you are also giving me the opportunity to make an intervention that this government has made in order to bring about a situation of chaos that has been created in recent years. The truth is that our government has dealt with the question of real estate of the Ministry of Labour and its supervised entities already since the first government since 2015, namely, the resolution of No 4430/2016. It was a necessary intervention because the situation we received was characterised by mismanagement and the destruction of funds for private individuals. You will also allow me in the first phase to tell you what we have received, at least in the real estate of the social security institutions. Of the 1,100 registered property buildings of the social security institutions, about 50% were empty or untapped. Only 14% were hired, 6% with proprietary treatment and 30% with a concession of use. Of the six hundred thousand square meters plots of land, 21% were imprisoned, more than 60% were empty or imprisoned and only 1% of the data I have shown to be rented or proprietary, about six hundred fifty buildings, literally ruins, only in Attica. As in many other cases of public bodies, what we received from social security institutions showed that a 'partner' of contractors and private individuals took place at the expense of the public at the previous time. I'm going to tell you three data in particular. The first is that the exploitation, even any repair of these buildings, was strictly linked to private companies through specific rules, mainly broker companies and bank advisers. It was eight to ten companies granted the role of the consultant, the regulator of the terms of the tender and the judge of the tender. Consequence: Any intervention in this property, even for any repair, social security institutions had to resort to these companies, so the cost would obviously increase because of the consultants involved, the costs of the tender, etc. As a result, the competitions have often been preached fruitlessly, buildings desolate and the cost of repair, as it were reasonable to keep growing. The second sample that the scheme was operating in the interests of private interests and the public interest was the ban on renting by an operator to an entity or to the State. It was prohibited, that is to say, that this leasing procedure should be carried out by an operator to an entity or to the State. The third element was that in order to hire a real estate it was necessary for the repair costs to be borne by the social security institution itself. As you can see, the body almost was in no way able to respond, and this artificial void came to cover it up by the private individuals who rented the building, covered repair costs and then hired it again in the public or in the institutions. That was the situation we received. Let me briefly tell you what we have done, because this situation had to be brought to an end. Firstly, we released the social security institutions from the compulsory delegation to these private companies. The funds, even if they have one engineer in their staff, were allowed to carry out the necessary competitive repair procedures in themselves, i.e. the staff themselves, the technical capacity of the social security institutions themselves to make the necessary repairs, without involving the private intermediaries and having additional costs that this delegation would entail. Secondly, the possibility of renting between operators or operators and the State was introduced, offsetting repair costs with future rents. In this context we are now making use of the Ministry of Labour and the CSMEDE building in Kolokotronis to build a Citizen Service Centre there on the issues of the Ministry of Labour, a help desk. The third point was that we reduced in these ways, with those handling, work and competition costs. I would like to believe that your proposal to set up a private body or a private body - which I read in your question, at least - for the management, exploitation and exploitation of the real estate of the social security institutions is not linked to the situation that has happened before, that is to say, what we have received does not look forward to reintroducing the previous situation, because we have already seen the basic features that lead to the exploitation of the real estate on terms and conditions of the private economy. That's all for now. And I'm going to answer more to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-31-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Kaklamani, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-31-S1-commons.u8	Madam Secretary, I'm sorry. Didn't you understand my question? I'm not asking a question about the real estate of the insurance funds. I asked you a question about the property of the Ministry of Health and Welfare and more specifically about the welfare piece that has nothing to do with the insurance funds, and I told you that it is the property of the former PICPA. You gave me an answer to a question I haven't asked. No relationship. Absolutely nothing to do with it. So, in my question, the ministry services see they're full at midnight. Do you want me to tell you some things? For example, the Voula PICKA has heard. You may not have visited it, but you have heard it. This is located on an area of two hundred and forty acres on the coast, which start from the old center of "Asteria" in Glyfada and extend to the area of Voula. Two hundred beach acres. Do you understand what we're talking about? So I ask you: do you know that? It should be at your Ministry as soon as the welfare came to the Ministry, unless you have left it back at the Ministry of Health, which has not taken a hampari and stayed "in the air" this. I'm asking if you've got it or if you've given it to the superstition. Do you want me to report you another real estate in the center of Athens? Lucianos and Charitable corner, three-storey building that I found rented by a businessman of the night - notice - compared to 100 euros a month! About 100 euros a month! There are plots in Kifisia, Glyfada and throughout Greece. So I'm talking to you about this property, the property of the piece of health and welfare, and I'm asking: First, when the Ministry of Health broke down - badly, muffled, was it a huge mistake - followed by the Welfare and the property in your Ministry, or has it been left behind? If he followed her, I need you to tell me what you've done. And from what I understand, you have done nothing at all. If he's left behind in health, it's not bad to tell me, to ask the Department of Health. If you are aware of this question, this is not such a question of control, it is a question from a Member of the Opposition to help in this difficult economic situation either your Ministry or the Health, if this property is left behind, to make use of these huge assets that will generate huge revenue. And the draft law that we have created has nothing to do with what you're saying. It may be a limited company, but it's a limited company with a stock owned by the Department of Health. The aims are in Article 4 of this draft law. Specifically, it says that the company's purpose is to exploit and exploit and record underneath what this thing means. In total, this draft law had eighteen articles. I will submit it in the Minutes along with the recording of any suggestions for the use of this public property. I already told you, Mrs Fotioux, that she has the cd I gave her - it seems that you don't speak to each other - where all this property is registered in the mortgage room. I learned yesterday from the Ministry of Health, which I got and asked, that some of the properties came back because he refused the mortgage to sign them because he has - he says - and another contender. Do you know who the other contenders who had stumbled on them? They are the same as the ones you said about the insurance funds and you are right. You know, mostly, who the trespassers were? Unfortunately, the Greek state: counties, municipalities and others. A few people were trapped by private people. The many were blocked by Greek public bodies. A whole seven-storey building in Piraeus, belonging to Pikpa, was invaded by Piraeus Prefecture, and I made a court struggle to get it back. So for this, I ask you to answer me, Minister. I'm not talking about insurance funds. To tell you what you said, I accept that it was so now. You've done this effort and good for you. But I didn't ask you about this fortune. I asked you about other property, which could have completely solved the welfare problem from its exploitation. So I would like you to answer that if you know, if you have come to your Ministry, if you have it in your Ministry, or pieces like what I said to you, the Voula Pikta, that is, the two hundred coastal acres have already been transported to the supreme store, why would you like to fillet who would not want it? That's what I want you to answer. I have nothing to tell you and I don't know about it, and I accept what you have told me. Mr President, in the Minutes and in the draft law and in the listing of alternative proposals for the development of property in the field of health and social solidarity.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-31-S1-commons.u9	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-31-S1-commons.u10	Mr. Kaklamani, there doesn't have to be any irritation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-31-S1-commons.u11	There's no irritation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-31-S1-commons.u12	As Minister for Labour, I have the obligation and the right to place myself on the whole property and the entire property.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-31-S1-commons.u13	That's not what I asked you, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-31-S1-commons.u14	Your question relates to the real estate of the Ministry of Labour as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-31-S1-commons.u15	No, it's specific.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-31-S1-commons.u16	I'll answer. Don't worry. A large part of this property relates to the property of the social security institutions is the most important part of it and it was necessary to refer here to the Members, those who are here and those who are watching us, what has also been done with this property, which is the most important part. With regard to the rest of the real estate, which is located at the Ministry of Labour, there is a complete record. Indeed, the real estate of the National Social Care Organization, referred to there, was transferred to the Ministry of Labour. These properties are registered and the relevant accreditation act has come out of...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-31-S1-commons.u17	Where are they registered? I gave it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-31-S1-commons.u18	No doubt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-31-S1-commons.u19	As you say, it's like you wrote it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-31-S1-commons.u20	When should I write them? Five months ago I became Minister
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-31-S1-commons.u21	Not you personally, Minister. We're not up against it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-31-S1-commons.u22	So the Ministry's competent department has taken the relevant accreditation act. Part of the real estate - to respond to what is happening with the property - the National Social Fund is being used either to meet the needs of vulnerable social groups or to dismantle disabled people. We are therefore moving in this direction towards the development of property, towards the social needs of certain vulnerable social groups and towards the upgrading of cities. Let me tell you that the real estate of the Ministry of Labour has been excluded from the Emigration Fund.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-31-S1-commons.u23	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-31-S1-commons.u24	And above all here you will allow me to point out again for the property of social security institutions that it has also been excluded.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-31-S1-commons.u25	I'm glad to hear that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-31-S1-commons.u26	Let me tell you that we are reintroducing the properties on the market, which are to be reintroduced and are not used for other purposes on competitive terms, by calculating the minimum rent to be set by a sworn valuer and by not applying an arbitrary 4,8% to the objective value that has been applied to date. I hope that in the next few years we will have it - an executive body for the use of real estate and social security institutions and the rest of the Ministry's property. The aim is to use the property mainly to meet social needs - I mentioned the vulnerable social groups - and also to upgrade degraded neighbourhoods. I would like to say a few words about the property of OAED, which is registered on the electronic basis of the real estate 'EXTIA'. I would also like to say to you, what I have omitted, that this real estate, which is currently on hard copy, is already waiting for an ESDP programme to become an electronic base so that it is registered and that everyone can access there. As far as the property revenues are concerned, we need to make a reference there too. I should like to say that in 2016, from the renting of the total property now owned by the Ministry, the revenues are about 90,934 in 2016. For 2015 it was 85,600. It is the total revenue from the rented properties of the Ministry's ownership. I think that was the necessary evidence, and it is clear that I am taking note of your comments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-31-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-31-S1-commons.u28	I'll be back in six months to see if you've moved on, because that's all on the paper.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-31-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr. Kaklamani. Subsequent to the second question by number 653/27-3-2017, Mr Panagiotis Mitarakis, Member of the New Democracy Parliament, Mr. Panagiotis Mitarakis, Minister for Migration Policy, on the caging of immigrants and refugees in Chios because the Government is unable to implement its decisions. Mr. Muzalas will answer. Mr. Metarakis, for two minutes you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-31-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, in recent years the migration flows of illegally entering our country have increased. And today Chios hosts more immigrants among all the islands of the North Aegean. I understand that about 3,600 people are caught in Chios, fewer in Lesvos and about 1,800 in Samos. As a result of these flows, there are two structures in place in Chios: Souda, which is obviously irregular and yesterday I came to the Prosecutor of Chios to testify, because it seems that Souda operates with the tolerance of services, without having the proper security conditions for both the refugees themselves, but also for the inhabitants and also for the BIAL, as it turns out, and there are security problems there. We had this very sad fact, too. All our wishes are the man to recover to Chios. The key to this situation is, on the one hand, the protection of our borders and, on the other, the proper functioning and rapid functioning of asylum procedures. There has been information in the press - and unfortunately we must rely on this information, because we do not have official information on the status of asylum - that four hundred asylum applications have been examined and rejected to a second degree for people in Chios. However, these decisions have not been notified, so that the relaunch of these illegal immigrants entering Turkey is not initiated. Minister, is this information confirmed? Are there any decisions that have not been notified? What if so for what? What is the timeline for notification and how is your Ministry generally planning to dismantle Chios? Because it is important to rely on official evidence, I would like, Minister, to understand how the asylum procedure works, to tell us how many people have been in Chios in the last 12 months. How many of them have they submitted asylum requests? How many have made final, final positive decisions? How many have made final negative decisions? How many more expect - and this is the most crucial - either in the first or second instance to make a decision? How long does it take? Because the fact that we have so many thousands of refugees in Chios means that the asylum procedure is taking place somewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-31-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister for Migration Policy, Mr Ioannis Mousalas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-31-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Metarakis, your question is a very critical intervention, which I hope will help to improve the situation in Chios. First of all, we must agree that the situation in Chios could be said to have crossed the line and this is being raped by the people of Chios. It makes no sense to reclaim and claim or fight or say that if it had been done, for example, it would not have been so or that if it had been done, it would not have been so etc. I think you are distinguished from one seriousness in your speeches. I remember you in your speech and in your help, unless it was then supported. Let me agree with you and you on a proposal to the City of Chios, which has not been implemented, to move on to these questions and then to conclude with a more general question. There are fifty-two decisions to a second degree, no four hundred. I have told the House that there is a lack of performance many times in these decisions because they disappear. Then I was mocked, using a word that another Minister had said, that they were melted. I didn't say they were melting. I claimed that through an attitude of self-protection they are trying to avoid taking the second degree and somewhere they get lost on the island, avoiding performance or small circuits - and I have said so to the House - they come illegally to the mainland, where we are relocating them. We're trying to see what we're gonna do. We have proposed and are aware that the second-degree decisions will not be implemented without closed centres. We had the need for a closed center. As you know, we were preparing the Mersidium and it closed. The asylum has been strengthened. The asylum is currently covering Chios' needs and we have doubled the secondary committees. I would therefore tell you that in order for returns to function, either in Turkey or in the mainland, on the basis of the agreement - a declaration from Europe - Turkey, what is missing is the closed centre. Yesterday I announced that we would take more measures. I said, namely, that we will limit the privilege of voluntary return to their country of origin. If five days after the primary decision do not require voluntary transfer, they will not be entitled during the hearing or after the secondary decision. This is what we believe will help to unlock a little the phenomenon called asylum abuse and which you know, because you are experiencing it, that this time is happening. I would like to say this: the government has had a very specific proposal. I think if this had been implemented, it would already work the HSY centre - for which we had taken money and agreed - and Souda would not exist. You know, after a lot of efforts, we dismantled the camp of D.C.O.D., we dissolved the park. They'd have moved on. However, things did not go ahead. I would also like to tell you that in the last six months we have carried, as vulnerable or those who do not have to stay in Chios, two and a half thousand people. We've transferred them from Chios to the mainland for the last six months. We estimate that almost a thousand individual movements have been made, that is, not organized, by their own means, as they have the right to do. However, the number remains. In the last six months two thousand nine hundred and twenty - three people have come to Chios. We fully agree that the situation is critical. I shall conclude, Mr Mitarakis, with one appeal. And you and I are practical people. Right now Chios needs a solution. My intention is next week to call at a meeting with the mayor, the district and the parliamentarians of the island so that we can see again what the possibilities are for a solution within the framework of the Europe-Turkey agreement, which I know also supports your party's policy. That's what I'm going to ask you for.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-31-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theory, after taking part in the "Workery of Democracy" educational programme organized by the Foundation of Parliament, twenty-three students and students and a training meeting from the 8th Petroupoli Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Metarakis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-31-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, it is very positive that you agree with us that the limits of resistance of Chios' residents have been exceeded. I would also stress that the living conditions of migrants in Chios do not honor us. You said there was a service law. I think that your comment should be an opportunity to reconvene the legislation. Whether, for example, a primary decision must be provisionally enforceable until it is judged to a second degree. The question also arises whether people who are illegally entering our country should be under administrative detention until they take a decision on asylum. We do not know who entered the country until it is judged by the services, whether it was right to come in the context of the Syrian crisis or not. And as long as we allow people who have already rejected their request to move freely, they are a given human being, Mr Minister, that traffickers' circuits will also operate on Greek territory, which will help them to leave. You referred to the Mersidium. Let me remind you, however, that SYRIZA in the period 2012-2015 considered it inhumane Mersidium and badly existed. You also said that if HSY had opened, Souda would have shut down. I want to remind you that VIAL was funded and created to close Souda. I, from the outset, agree with a closed relaunching centre, as is necessary for the administration of the detention of minors, for their own safety. And I think it's a request from the Chios Prosecutor, who also has the responsibility of supervising unaccompanied minors. On this, however, which I disagreed at the meeting in Maximos and I still disagree is on the multiplication of detention points. There is VIAL and has the ability to function as a closed center and meet these needs that rightly exist. Yeah, it needs a shut-down center to work on the re-propulsion. Use Vial. BIAL was created to be a closed center. Later, let me say for ideological reasons, it became open. This has also caused problems for local residents, but it has also caused security problems for immigrants themselves. Of course, for me, the key to this case is still the same. It is the functioning of the asylum procedure. Because if we manage secondary schools to operate within 30 days of the request for asylum, in Chios it would not today be more than two hundred - three hundred refugees and migrants, a number which, in comfort and with human circumstances, could be hosted by VIAL. Of course, it is unnecessary to say by closing down that the islands of the North Aegean are still - not yours - experiencing a huge crisis in tourism. We have almost zero reservations for Chios and Easter and already for the summer. Unfortunately, the image of the islands of Northern Aegean, which raise the burden of migratory flows and the weakness of the Ministry of Tourism and other competent ministries, to do something essential, beyond meetings, the desire of the Ministry of Infrastructure not to make the new airport of Chios, has led the inhabitants of Chios to a deadlock and to some despair. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-31-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Dear students and students from Petroupolis, to know what you are following at this time, MP from Chios Mr. Mitarakis, asks the Minister responsible for immigration policy, what the situation of refugees and immigrants who arrived in Chios today is. And the Minister is answering him and informing him of this situation. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-31-S1-commons.u36	Mr Metarakis, continuing with your spirit and your dentistry, which, regardless of our disagreements, is the way in which they are put in a direction of resolution, two things. One is - you know very well - that it did not choose any government on which islands atypical social migrants will come from slaves, illegal legal immigrants. Please, I am very aware of your patriotism. Borders are kept in the best possible way. There's an assurance from NATO, from FRONTEX and it's your knowledge too. There's no other way to save than rescue. This has even gone through the Visegrad conference - which I had the pleasure of attending for the first time - that this is the only way that can be done. We are therefore in the face of a phenomenon that does not depend on us. Viale becoming a closed centre is opposed to the creation of VIAL by the European Union and to the directions of the European Union. It's not about ideoscopy, it's about nothing. However, this is also a point of view that there is no need for VIAL to become a closed centre. This thing with closed centres and with everyone's detention was something that never happened in our country. I've often filed the evidence in the House. There are sixty thousand illegal arrivals and five thousand detentions. The rest of them were gone. But it is not my intention to oppose this. I think that from the time we speak it comes out that, in order for the asylum to function and the secondary ones are the creation of a closed centre. So this has to be done in Chios. There's got to be a way to get back. We built Kos. The example of Kos, I think, is going to be convincing. Refunds will start very quickly from there. And I think you'll be part of the solution. We're not multiplying the centers. We're creating better conditions away from the center. Souda was a selection of municipal authorities in consultation with the High Commissioner. We supported the choice of municipal authorities. We didn't make Souda. We want to dismantle Souda. But you understand that the three thousand people can't go to Vial. These are problems which you, the municipality, the opposition - which is not just an opposition - are called upon to see again under the new maturity of the really difficult conditions that Chios is going through. Let me tell you this as far as the closed centers are concerned and how SYRIZA reported them. SYRIZA reported the circumstances. The circumstances that SYRIZA will create, I hope, are not such that they will have to be denounced. This is something, which is played every time. Therefore, a closed centre is part of our legal system and international law. The conditions prevailing in this are something for which we are judged. I call again, I will inform you from my office, at this meeting. I consider you to be part of the solution and not part of the problem. I would remind you that I and you agreed in the wording that it would open up the center in HIAD so that BIAI could gradually close down. It was a compromise formula that you and I made, trying to overcome the difficulties that were encountered by the other players at the meeting. I think that at the new meeting we should both look, leaving the past behind, what can be the solution. Because the problem is well-known, we agree, and, you know, the Hie People suffer it and we have to resolve it. Thank you for the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-31-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been informed by the Secretariat of the President of Parliament about questions which will not be discussed and which I shall read out to you. The first question under number 660/28-3-2017 of the first cycle of the Samos MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Dimitrios Sevastakis to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the reopening of Samos Television and the context of the proper functioning of regional media will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information Mr. Nicholas Pappas. Also, the eighth Question No 333/12-1-2017 by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the financing of journalists and websites will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information Mr Nikolaos Papapas. The fourteenth under number 633/21-3-2017, a topical question from the Independent MEP, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the subject, is being delayed with a delusion. The tender for the licensing of television stations will not be debated as a result of the obstruction of the Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, Mr. Nicholas Pappas. The third, with number 666/28-3-2017, a top-stage question by the Member of Parliament, Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou, to the Minister of Finance, on a matter that is necessary and necessary for legislation to remain in the special regime of about four hundred thousand farmers, will not be discussed because of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Catherine Papanatziou, on the grounds of a workload. The fourth question under number 658/27-3-2017, first question by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panagiotaraou to the Minister of Finance, on the performance of the Olympic Games account, will not be discussed because of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Finance Mr. Georgios Huliarakis, on the grounds of a workload. The first topical question of the second cycle under number 661/28-3-2017 of the MP Aetolokarnanias coalition of the Radical Left, Maria Triantafylos, to the Minister for Environment and Energy, on the subject, "object local communities of the Municipality of Sacred City Messologists in the construction of bioliquid power plants will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister for the Environment, Mr Socrates Famelou, on the grounds of a workload. The second timely question of the second cycle under number 654/27-3-2017 of the MP Evros of New Democracy, Anastasios Prussias State, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, concerning the exception of Evros and Samothraki from the exceptional aid to milk producers in islands experiencing problems due to migratory flows will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister for Development and Food, Evangelos Apostolos, on the grounds of misappropriated obligations. The third topical question of the second cycle, with No 649/27-3-2017 of the Independent MEP, Efstathios Panagoulis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject of “provocative use of chemicals in protesters despite the recent explicit ban on the government and the commitment of the Minister”, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of the Interior, Nikolaos Toska, on the grounds of a workload. Also, the fifth topical question of the second cycle under MP number 461/8-2-2017 - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zaroulias to the Minister of Home Affairs, on the "terrorist attack with kalashnikov against men of MS" will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Home Affairs Mr. Nikolaos Toska on the grounds of a workload. The fourth timely question of the second cycle under number 520/23-2-2017 of the MP for the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Finance, on the "silence of Mr. Tsakalotou and the government's commitments" will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance, Mr.Euklidis Tsakalotou, on the grounds of a workload. The sixth question, under number 435/2-2-2017, is the second question of the Athens Parliamentary of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Eleni Zaroulia, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the appointment of a judge in the administration of the Supreme Council, will not be discussed because of the impediment of the Minister, Euklidis Tsakalotou, on the grounds of a workload. The ninth under number 439/6-2-2017 a topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance regarding the transfer of PPC's users to companies of alternative electricity providers will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister, Euklidis Tsakalotou, on account of a workload. The tenth under number 498/20-2-2017 a topical question for the second-cycle question by the Athens MP Mr.Georgios Amyrias to the Minister of Finance on the 'Siemens' case will not be discussed on the grounds of an impediment by the Minister, Euklidis Tsakalotou, on the grounds of a workload.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-31-S1-commons.u38	Mr President, just for the Minutes, I should like to point out that the term 'timely question' is in danger of becoming the shortest joke. It is now rare to answer questions and, above all, I am surprised, Mr President, if I may say so, that the Ministers with whom the ministries are also Deputy Minister and State Secretarys one of the two or three has no ten minutes to answer. Workload means it's in Athens.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-31-S1-commons.u39	Mr Metarakis, it has been seen as a subject and it has also been raised in the Conference of Presidents. You're right. We'll see how to deal with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-31-S1-commons.u40	It's good to note every time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-31-S1-commons.u41	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-two students and students and two teachers from the General School of Chrysopoupolis Kavalas. The House welcomes them. Welcome, dear friends, to the Greek Parliament. I just have to tell you that you have the misfortune to have entered the Greek Parliament at the end of today's sitting. We just finished it. It's okay, welcome. We will continue with a few postponements of the questions and close the meeting. The seventh question, number 367/20-1-2017, is a second question for the Evia MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaos Michou to the Minister of the Interior, concerning the unacceptable displacement of thirty-six thousand seven hundred, sixty-sixty-seven Greek children from the nurseries, will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Minister, Mr. Panagiotis Skourletis. The second question by number 1775/6-12-2016 of the questions raised by the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Paraskevi Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Health, concerning the indifference of the Ministry of Health for the Zakynthos Hospital, will not be discussed because of the obstruction of Deputy Minister Pavlos Polakis, on the ground that he is present at the meeting of the Central Board of Health. The eleventh question, under number 620/20-32017, of the second question of Attica of the Independent Greeks Mr. Konstantinos Katsikis to the Minister of the Interior, concerning compensation for the owners of the expropriated areas for the construction of the Western Attica Sanitary Breeding Area, will not be discussed by the Minister of the Interior, Mr. Panagiotis Skourletis, on account of a workload. The tenth third, with number 622/20-3-2017, is a topical question of the second cycle of the New Democracy MP Christos Boukorous to the Minister of the Interior, on the payment of the transport of students by means of special student cards with public transport, will not be discussed due to a workload of the Minister, Mr. Panagiotis Skourletis. Finally, the third question under number 2718/19-1-2017 asked by the Independent MEP Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister for Migration Policy, on the need to take legislative measures to speed up proceedings before the courts, in cases where the application for international protection - asylum - is rejected, will not be discussed after consultation of the Minister with the Member and will be redefined for discussion next week. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Thursday 16 February 2017, Friday 17 February 2017 and Monday 20 February 2017 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-31-S1-commons.u42	The minutes of Thursday 16 February 2017, Friday 17 February 2017 and Monday 20 February 2017 were therefore validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-31-S1-commons.u43	With the agreement of the House at 11 a.m., the sitting for the next Monday, April 3rd, 2017, at 18 a.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
