ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of Thursday's topical and urgent debate on Thursday, 5 October 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Chios of the Radical Left Coalition, Andreas Michaelides, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Completion of work for the formation and fence of an expropriated area at Chios airport and extension of the Christos road". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question raised by Mr Gerasios Yakoumatos, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, dated 7/2-10-2017, concerning measures for the demographic problem of the country. 3. Under No 3/2-10-2017, a topical question by MP Serres of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMARMAR Mr.Michael Jeleli to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The creation of three new toll stations on the road axis Promahona - Serres - Port of Thessaloniki is disastrous for the Prefecture of Serres". 4. The 20/3-10-2017 topical question of the Attica MP of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Ioannis Giokas to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the closure of the "FRONERI HELLAS" ice cream factory in Tavros. 5. The Question No 4/2-10-2017 by H' Vice-President of the Parliament and MEP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the book of Geography taught in Albania. 6. The Question No 21/3-10-2017 by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Unpaid workers at Rios casino". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under No 2/2-10-2017, a topical question by MP Corinth of the Radical Left Coalition Mrs Maria Theleritis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on "Protection of workers in the TAs and respecting health and safety rules". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 8/2-10-2017 of the New Democracy MP, Dimitrios Kyriazides, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, concerning the problem of potato growers in the Lower Neuroscope of the Prefecture of Drama. 3. The 22/3-10-2017 topical question by MP II Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Sakis Bardalis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Reimbursements of fireflying oil producers, farmers and beekeepers of Thassos". 4. The 23/3-10-2017 topical question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Culture and Sport on the work of maintenance of the New Monastery of Chios. 5. The 24/3-10-2017 topical question by MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Stavros Tassos to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on measures for the immediate compensation of earthquakes and the restoration of damage to Lesvos. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a statement to this House. The Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: "Legal recognition of gender identity - National Mechanism for the Training, Monitoring and Evaluation of Child Rights Action Plans". The Standing Committee on Production and Trade also submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: 'Staturing and marketing fresh and vulnerable agricultural products and other provisions'. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Preparation of the Multilateral Agreement of Authorities for the Exchange of Reports by Country and Implementing Provisions". The bill has been passed in the Standing Committee by a majority. It is introduced to the House under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure. In other words, according to Article 108, those who object to the ratification of this agreement may take the floor. However, because two ministerial amendments have been tabled, I would firstly suggest that those who voted against or expressed reservations as well as the Minister responsible for five minutes and then that the amendments should be discussed with the parliamentary representatives, the rapporteurs, the special speakers and the relevant ministers. According to Article 108, however, everyone will speak for five minutes. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore agreed. It has the floor, in turn, of those who voted against the committee, the Golden Dawn. Mr. Germenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Most of us have said so in committee too. We have had 15 minutes to discuss this sanction in detail and we have said then, as we will now say, that this ratification by the government today is a completely pretextary treaty, which has no framework for compulsory or optional safeguarding the information that is being exchanged. This is all the result of a comic paragraph, paragraph 4, of the third article, that, in the event of a country reporting to the debtors under this Article, a fine is imposed - you listen well - EUR 10,000, and in the event of a late submission, a fine of EUR 5 000. We are talking now - because this is a pragmatism - of companies that make more than 750 million euros a year and fine them 10,000 euros and 5,000 euros, respectively, when we all know that if a baker doesn't cut a receipt, one who has cafeterias doesn't cut a receipt, you put him down and you check him out. This is how your Government perceives civil law, people's law over these big corporations? So, where are you gonna put your hand? In ‘SIEMENS’, ‘ELDORADO’, ‘MARINOPOULOS’, ‘LIDL’; Will you put your hands on these companies with the sums of EUR 10,000 or EUR 15 000? That's funny. Also, comic is how you realize that the citizen will find social justice. You say on page 59 that it is expected to have significant benefits for all citizens and to strengthen the sense of social justice. With all that I said, what kind of social justice can a shopkeeper feel, a small medium-sized shop that has a little shop and can be caught by a tax collector who hasn't cut off a receipt? Let's just say you've never taken VAT from the airport from the German company. We're clear here. We say that if you want to bring a sanction that is serious and reflects the positions of the Greek people, to legislate, to have strict surveillance of labour legislation. If you return and go to all the crafts - the remaining ones - you will see that the staff back in the lancza is without any insurance. There is employment of undeclared cheap immigrants instead of national workers. Put Greeks on it. Do you want me to remind you what happened in the case of 'SIEMENS'? In countries like Nigeria, whose system is below us, there have been great penalties. However, here in Greece, in Greece, in Christoforikos and in other local partners, "we cleaned them up", "we made oil". May I remind you what happened in the case of LIDL? He has set up dozens of smaller U.N. companies. and E.E. and through them it imports products from the parent company, which has its tax base in Cyprus and Malta. We all know that the rates there are 10% and 15%. Relevant research has shown that it is 88% more expensive than Germany and 56% more expensive than Spain. In other words, because of the chaos of the Greek economy, such companies as LIDL are putting us in more expensive products. May I remind you what has happened recently with the ELDORADO company? You made the cowboys! Suddenly, with a phone that the Prime Minister of Canada made - because, as we all know, ELDORADO is a state-owned company - which spoke to his counterpart Alexis Tsipras, they forgot about Skouria, they forgot about the gold, they forgot about the ecological disaster you say. So you realize that problems can be solved in such colossal companies. This sentence is really funny. We have also asked the Minister which countries they have signed this ratification. We didn't get a reply. It is not compulsory to ratify all the Member States of the European Union. Instead, Greece takes the lead. And on this, if I remember correctly, the signatures fell six or eight months ago and Greece is running first to sign this ratification, even though it has no benefit for the Greek society. Indeed, there has been a law since 1977, since the 77/799 directive of the European Union. For all this, then, we are voting against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u4	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty-eight students and students and two educational attendants from the 2nd Municipal School of Aspropyrgos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Vardalis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u5	Mr President, why are we against the ratification of this agreement? First of all, because he is coming to implement a law, Mr. 4153/2013, which we had voted against. It is coming to implement an agreement between the imperialist organisations, such as the G-20, the OECD, the European Union. Mostly because all these agreements, the law that I have mentioned, are not just about to combat tax evasion, but are blessed with everything that is stated in them. It has, of course, been proved in practice that any measures taken at times have become ineffective. Of course it is ineffective not because there are no high fines, as has been said in this Chamber, but above all because tax evasion is inherent to the capitalist system itself, with the organization of the economy itself, the capitalist one. To be more specific, what do we want to point out as a Communist Party of Greece? First of all, such a debate, when it takes place in such imperialist organizations as G-20, the OECD alone shows that this is not a Greek phenomenon. It concerns all capitalist states. Second, what does it prove? That, as far as the capitalist economic crisis is concerned, such a debate is taking place with greater and fierce contrasts between the imperialist forces, that is, practically the cycle of the economy. When we have a crisis, such a debate arises. Why? Because, above all, capital needs to be found, capital subsidies being granted, investment being attracted to get away from the crisis and growth being made. That is the essence of the matter. What agreements are we talking about now? Why do we say that such matters are wishful? Why is there a tax evasion? In our view, in order to approach such a question we should address above all the cause of the problem. In our view, tax evasion is the result of the capitalist economy, which is the main incentive to profit. So, in other words, the person trying to evade, does it because he wants to have a higher profit rate, a step further than his competitor. That is why we say that tax evasion is inherent to the system. Of course there are factors that occasionally exacerbate this problem. For example, the first factor is competition between business groups and, of course, there is tax competition within it. What, then, is the effort of all urban capitalist states to create a friendly tax environment for businesses? In fact, they are legally exempting business groups. The tax evade, that is, in a legal way. Isn't that what you're asking for all the other parties? To reduce taxation on enterprises in relation to the states in particular in our region? The second factor is the freedom to move capital. This is a factor that multiplys, for example, tax havens. It forms new media such as, for example, offshore companies, which in Greece by the way and on the basis of the time I have, they are partying, that is, they live their own myth in our country. Let me remind you of the evidence submitted by the State Secretary, Mr Mavraganis, in 2012 and then he talked about sixteen thousand five hundred eighty active - more than the offshore that existed - offshore. Of these, in 2003 the three hundred and three hundred three in relation to the properties they held and paid a tax of 4.8 billion. In 2012, ten years later and within the capitalist economic crisis, companies making statements increased, became nine hundred sixty-five, but paid a tax of 0.3 billion from 4.8 billion. That's why we're talking about parties! What proved to be the case? While companies making statements are increasing, they are reducing the tax they pay. Finally, it is also the logic of anonymity, anonymous businesses, anonymous shares, that nobody should know anything about all this. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute or so. I'm asking for your tolerance. What is needed, in our view, to tackle tax evasion, is first of all, on the one hand, to combat the legal, lasting and scandalous tax evasion of business groups. On the other hand, tax evasion must be tackled as a whole. Proposals to combat tax evasion, to be effective, must be entirely in a different direction. These proposals of the Communist Party of Greece we have no illusion that you may adopt them. We are presenting them mainly to become a case of the People's Movement itself. Such proposals are the abolition, for example, of favourable tax arrangements for business groups. Removal of special tax regimes for shipowners and banks. Repeal of offshore companies. To abolish the freedom to move capital and, of course, to abolish the various secrets. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, too. The New Democracy has expressed a reservation. Mr. Vlacho has the floor. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. We were also put to the committee positively for this ratification, for this agreement. We wanted to keep a firm eye on it, because we really wanted to see whether amendments and exactly what is going to happen, but also because I personally wanted some information which has been discussed in committee today. I said that the case of intra-group transactions had been legislated since 2008 and because some colleagues questioned it, today I came with concrete figures to talk about it, because we need to speak very specifically. I am therefore talking about Article 26 of Law 3728/2008, which laid down rules for the documentation of intra-group transactions. We had at that time seen that 60% of the transactions were made through intra-group transactions and we wanted to shield this framework so in terms of taxation, which was, of course, a matter for the Ministry of Finance, at that time, no reason for development, but above all, on the part of our own, then as the Ministry of Development, in terms of prices. We then asked for the first time that there should be the basic file, what we are reading today, ten years later. We asked, if you see in this piece of legislation, the existence of the Greek file. I said, of course, that this law was disdained, when the government changed in 2009, embarrassing some PASOK colleagues, but the reality is that, since I have to tell them that in 2011 I asked the Ministry of Development a question to the then head of the Ministry of Development and I was asking whether there were any checks on the intra-group transactions of multinational enterprises. The answer I received was that from the replies of the competent ministers it appears that for the uses before 2008, there have been two hundred three cases, and after 2008-2009, which I asked the question, the audit only took place in one company. So in practice the next government, the PASOK government, repudiated this law. We, and then, and today, consider this audit to be important and come up with this agreement and provide for mutual administrative assistance and exchange of information on tax issues, i.e. it extends the price issue, goes to tax issues, and that is the right thing, it is more comprehensive. In other words, it expresses the will of the Member States participating in this way to create a secure framework for combating tax evasion and for imposing rules on intra-group transactions by groups of multinational companies. It is imposed by the conditions created in the context of the globalised economy. Groups are obliged to provide the tax administrations of the Member States with information on their business activities, intragroup transactions, income, pre-tax profits, paid income tax, number of employees, equity capital for each country in operation. We are therefore consistent in our attitude and, today, we are voting in favour of ratification of this agreement. We really want it to be implemented in practice, and that will be what is needed for the next period, because its implementation can be for the benefit of society, the Greek people, consumers and the public interest of the Greek state. Now, with regard to a number of amendments, Mr President, first of all I am making a positive approach, but we would like to hear the position of the ministers at the end in order to take an exact position during the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, too. Before I give the floor to the State Secretary, I must say that there are three amendments, the two have been distributed, the third is now to be distributed, which concerns an extension of a period of voluntary disclosure of taxable material. She'll be distributed now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u9	Mr. President, will I not speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u10	The Minister will be placed for the contract and then for the amendments, and then we will be given the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u11	We want to express the same reservation, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u12	As is written here, in practice, only the New Democracy has expressed a reservation. If the Democratic Compact has one, please have the floor, Mr Kutsuko.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u13	I will clarify that so that there are no misunderstandings. Our rapporteur, Mr Arvanitides, whom I am replacing, has retained exactly the same reservation, as the Minister has told us that amendments will be tabled. And because we wanted to talk, then, we kept this reservation. Therefore, Mr President, I will make use of the fiveteenth, as the honourable Member, Mr Vlachos, has done. Ladies and gentlemen, the agreement we are currently adopting is the result of a lasting effort by the OECD and the Council of Europe to exchange information on tax evasion issues, which I must inform you that it has started too long, in 1988, with the multilateral convention signed in Strasbourg and which was subsequently amended by the so-called 'Protocol 2010', which our country signed with the competent Minister on 21-2-2012, the ratification of which we have done here in Parliament with Mr L4153/2013, which in the second article provided for the authorisation of the relevant Minister of Finance to designate the competent authority. So the competent authority, the Independent Public Revenue Authority today, signed the Protocol on the automatic exchange of information on intra-group transactions, which we are currently dominating. I am saying this because I heard the majority rapporteur, during the committee telling us that the attempt has now begun to address the issues of tax evasion. I read the rapporteur's report which has no reference to the history of this case. I would therefore like it to be made clear that our country is a country which has taken the lead in international cooperation in dealing with the problems of tax evasion, because it has an interest. And it has an interest in taxing the profit in the country in which it is created. Because it is well known that the multinationals' practice of transferring their profits where lower rates exist. And our country, as we know, does not have the lowest rates. The second point I have to make, Mr President, is that this case within the European Union has been dealt with by directives that start from the EEC of 1977 and which we have ratified by laws successively in 1990, 2003, 2008, 2013 and the evolution of these directives has also been ratified by the SYRIZA Government recently, which now overshadows these directives. But I would inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that when we brought these directives to ratification, the SYRIZA of the hard opposition voted against them with various arguments. Because some of these directives have previously been passed by the coalition. There was a European concept previously in this area. So we are now coming here to deal with a criticism from Mr Vlao. Mr Vlachos reported to us a law passed by his Government in 2008 on market surveillance service that he allegedly defeated multinationals.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u14	That you didn't apply him, I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u15	Easy!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u16	You didn't apply him, I said, not that he was down. We didn't have time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u17	Mr Vlao, I inform you that before this law you referred to, your Government and by vote in our own vote had ratified the European directive on exchanges of information and checks in intra-group transactions. That's not what you told us. I am saying this in order not to create impressions and impressions about who has caused the tax evasion that lives and reigns in our day and there are evidence. So I do not want to go further than to make three specific remarks on the amendments. As regards the amendment you tabled, Minister, on the cooperation of the ILO, the Economic Police and so on. It is a transformation of our own regulation, and we obviously agree. As we will also agree with the one that just came to us, which concerns the prolongation of time, as long as I have been able to see it. If there's anything else, you'll tell us. We had then criticised that it would not do so, because I had explained with a reasonable sense who it was about. It's about those who are in the eye of control and not the others who'll never get caught. In any case, we agree. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And now I come to the great amendment which has five articles and which has been tabled late. I must tell you - a minute, Mr President - that is why.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u18	Mr. Comrade, finish it up. You will then talk about the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u19	Will you give me the floor again?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u20	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u21	I will use the time you will give me, in order to put myself on this amendment, because I think that the government is constantly bypassing the committees. And why is he bypassing them? So we don't have the right to call the agencies. Because if he had tabled this amendment to us here, we would have called on the institutions. In other words, we would call on the academics, we would call on the musicians of the ERT, we would call on all of them to tell us what the need is, what the need for this amendment is. So we expect the Minister to tell us and we will be placed in detail. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, too. Please, Minister, put yourself on the bill and, if you like, on the amendments, so that the parties can then be placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law ratifys the multilateral agreement of the competent authorities, in which the automatic exchange of country-by-country reports between the competent authorities of its Contracting Parties is activated and put into effect. The aim is to address the problem of tax fraud, tax evasion and aggressive tax planning practices of multinational companies, as was the case with the harmonisation of Greek legislation with the provisions of European Directive 881/2016 and the automatic exchange of information in Law 4484/2017. In today's globalised environment a government can do little about national legislation, even with bilateral agreements. The tools available to tax fighters are now too much. Solutions can only be given at European or international level. That is why the international conventions signed by our country are an important tool against tax evasion. With this agreement we approve groupings of multinational enterprises with an annual consolidated revenue of more than EUR 750 million to submit the country-by-country report. They are obliged to provide information on a number of important economic elements of their activities, allowing the tax authorities to make a first assessment as to whether an undertaking is a real or virtual activity. They are valuable because, even if they are protected against strict confidentiality clauses and are not allowed by the Convention itself to be used as evidence, the tax authorities can and should use them to assess risks in relation to intra-group transactions prices and the erosion of the tax base and the transfer of profits for economic and statistical analysis and for further research into intra-group transactions prices of a multinational group or on other tax issues under tax control. Ladies and gentlemen, our Government has taken advantage of every opportunity offered by international agreements, agreements at European Union level and at OECD level to deal with the massive tax evasion that some multinational companies make. We want to protect the tax base, we want the economic activity being done in Greece and benefits from public infrastructure and domestic demand to be taxed in Greece. We want equal and fair competition between small, medium-sized and multinational enterprises, between lawmakers and non-legislative enterprises to be maintained. The practices of transferring profits through intragroup transactions or through triangular transactions and other artifacts are illegal. We must stress it. It is something recognised in the international legal framework and there is now an extensive network of tax information exchanges between Member States of the European Union and between OECD countries. In Greece we have created a strong institutional framework based on these agreements. We are enriching it and improving it all the time, so that the tax authorities can make checks and locate tax evasion. And indeed the Independent Public Revenue Authority has intensified tax and customs controls, strengthened by staff, equipment and know-how, because the political will to deal with tax evasion and smuggling today exists from our Government. Before moving on to the amendments, I would like to give some legislative improvements. It's some corrections. What is important is what I also mentioned in the committee. EUR 10,000 is replaced by EUR 20,000 and EUR 5 000 is replaced by EUR 10,000 by the second part, in paragraph 4 of the third article.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u24	Also, starting from Amendment No 1261 and special number 204, the Special Secretariat of the ILO continues its work with unsatisfactory intensity in order to combat the major economic crime of all kinds. We have already seen its achievements in recent years. With this amendment, and in cooperation with the relevant Ministry of Labour, we are giving an additional weapon to our Ministry's audit service, making it responsible not only for the incidental finding of a breach of labour law but also for self-evident checks with the same objective. In particular, the proposed amendment adds the Special Secretariat of the IBEA as a audit body together with the Economic Police, which has the power to carry out audits of the IKA - EBRD and the Labour Inspectorate and to carry out the drawing up and submission of a competent audit report in cases where breaches of labour law are found, such as undeclared work, etc. We believe that the results of this regulation will be particularly positive in the fight against illegal work and in the defence of public interest in general. We already have the results of the OSCE. With strengthening and with the ILO, we believe that we will have better results. In Amendment No 1263, with a specific number of 205, I would like to table a legislative improvement. The second article, which constitutes the remuneration of members of the "ERT S.A.", is deleted because it will enter a respective bill of the relevant Ministry. I shall refer only to the other articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u25	The first article of the promoted amendment seeks to streamline the remuneration of specialised educational staff and laboratory teaching staff of the universities, the Higher Technological Institutions and the Higher School of Education and Technology, the Higher Military Training Institutions, the Higher Church Academys and the Commercial Navy Academys, as well as the musicians of the state orchestras. It is noted that this is a payroll with special wages, and the amendment changes their earnings positively. With the third article, which is now the second one, since we have the deletion of the first one, we have the arrangement concerning the Deposit and Loan Fund. It substantially extends the scope of existing favourable arrangements for the consistent borrowers of the fund. In particular, under the new policy of the Fund, consistent borrowers are rewarded with a refund of part of the interest paid to them in respect of mortgage loans in the housing sector. However, to date, this policy does not apply to those borrowers whose loans have been transferred and securitised in accordance with Article 9 of Law 3452/2006. The proposed legislation attempts to treat all borrowers of the Deposit and Loan Fund equally, including those with securitised mortgage loans that remain their trading partners, as the procedure for recovering credit claims from their loans continues to be carried out by the Deposit and Loan Fund. The cost of the proposed arrangement will be covered by the Deposit and Loan Fund and therefore the relevant provision in the 2017 budget has not been made. The following article, with the first of the proposed amendments to Law 4484/2017, seeks to explicitly confirm the specific nature of the provisions concerning the independent public revenue authority. In particular, the amendments made to Law 4270/2014 under the provisions of Article 34 of Law 4484/2017 shall apply without prejudice to the specific provisions for the authority for the purpose of orderly and uninterrupted implementation of its purpose. In the latter Article, the amendments to 4484/2017 concern, on the one hand, the necessary and legal improvements, in order to facilitate the process of determining the amounts wrongly paid in the event of irrevocable conviction of the applicant or irrevocable acceptance against the action being brought and, on the other hand, simplifying and facilitating the process of filling staff in the Council of Economic Experts in cases where the President of the Council has not been appointed or lacking for any reason. In the last amendment with general number 1266 and special number 206 we have an extension of the time limit for voluntary disclosure of taxable matter. It is extended, due to the high response of the taxpayers, until 31-10-2017, the deadline for subjecting to the arrangement. For declarations submitted after 1-6-2017 up to 31-10-2017, additional taxes laid down in Article 30 of Law 4474/2017 shall apply. I think that with these three amendments we have completed and we are waiting for your questions, if they exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u27	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u28	Mr Dendias, New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u29	Mr President, I will be very brief. Furthermore, with regard to the fundamental aspects of the legislation and the two amendments - because the third was tabled at the time - our rapporteur, Mr George Vlachos, has been posted. What I would first like to point out is - I think - commonly known, repeated, that at the moment the government is recommending an additional multilateral agreement when SYRIZA refused to vote on the original agreement, but we are used to it. Of course I would like to note what PASOK's colleague said before that SYRIZA has a strange history. In other words, for those who remember the 1980s, as a Communist Party of Greece Internal at the time, they were in favour of joining the European Union, they were among the few parties that then supported the national effort of Constantine Karamanlis, which was signed by the then Prime Minister George Rallis for joining the EEC in 1980, when instead the then PASOK protested against the entry into the EEC with the well-known phrase "EEC and NATO the same trade union" and many more and graphics of the time. I would mention that, since the honourable Member wanted to remind us of the history of each of us, so that we do not forget each other's history. Of course the tradition of the Communist Party of Greece of the Inner Leonidas Kyrkos was not followed by SYRIZA. Indeed, after that, SYRIZA swept through completely anti-European attitudes, tendencies and positions to return, of course, as a Memorandum Party and to accept the congratulations of all Europeans, Mr Diaselblum, on the right attitude that Greek society - on the lips of Mr Diaselblum - the advice not to overthrow this brilliant government, which we have, which introduces excellent legislative and brilliant amendments. And I now come to this last one, such as the three today, one of which is, in the government custom, unjustified and late. Honestly, Minister, I am unaware of what is forced by a government to end up in such amateurism. I can't understand it. I cannot understand what a government, whatever the right or the wrong, the right or the wrong of any amendment, is forcing every piece of legislation to bring about a sanction or a European obligation and at the side of an amendment that usually covers either wrong or ruptured. What is going on in both years of this government has never been observed in this size in a National Representation, which in the past did not claim a prize for the quality of its legislative work. However, between this and what we are seeing today, there is no precedent for three delayed amendments and on the amendments to give us a note with legislative changes. Incidentally, I would add to the person who signs the legislative changes that the shortest with ‘I’ is not wrong. It's not wrong! It does not need to be corrected as soon as 'o'. The Greek language has a follow-up and a younger expression of the same word does not make the previous appearance of the word wrong. The'shorter' with 'e' in my view remains correct. So I would suggest the Minister doesn't make any legislative change. There's no need. In any case, however, I conclude and say this, so that we do not get too much reasoned. It will then be put to the vote by Mr Georgios Vlachos, I said it before. However, I will not cease to ask the government and to ask her to be serious about the production of the legislative work, to bring legislation, rather than to legislate by means of amendments. To be able in the last phase of her presence in the government of the country not to be followed by the worst traditions of the past, which she supposedly promised in Greek society that she would change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u30	Thank you. Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u31	Madam Secretary, I don't know if you know about gymnastics. I would like to say a few words on gymnastics, that is to say sports, on the occasion of an intervention by Mr Koutsoukos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u32	The revolutionary or normal gymnastics?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u33	No, normal. So he says, 'Why is the history of this draft law not reflected in the report'? The human question is reasonable: why do you have a 'closed' report in this regard, in the background, which you have eliminated? The answer is given by your Member, in 2013, when the House ratified with v.4153/2013 - mentioned in the rapporteur's report - the specific OECD convention and SYRIZA made this terrible and horrendous position: "The positive arrangements of this Convention..." said your Member at the time, "... are undermined by various kinds of exceptions and discounts, but also by the imposition of OECD standards, namely assistance on request, which is a model that is outdated in the current economic circumstances, so that it does not contribute to the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. So...” says SYRIZA MEP a few years ago, “We are voting "PARON". That is why, Minister, your rapporteur's report is 'cows'. Because if she were spacious, she would present yourself, one who, in gymnastic terms, is very common in cubisms. And this draft law, for which Mr Koutsoukos expressed the views of the Democratic Alliance, constitutes a cybacity in your overall political process. But there, Minister, this is not just about cubic blocks, but about backward tumbling - the so-called flaks in gymnastics - there, Minister, which is the result is the general economy. You submitted a few days ago as Ministry the draft budget for 2018 and of all that - we will talk about it when the time comes - what is remarkable is the problem of 2017's revenue, after you have unleashed Greek society and especially the middle layers. As a lawyer I am speaking to you, to underline that for all branches of the free professionals, especially the middle layers that exist in them, the pillar of the Greek economy in general, is in 2017 the fatal year, Minister. And there, Mr President, the flak-flack goes for a gold medal is the Greek, where every year and a half, in the three years of governance of SYRIZA, we also have an inappropriate cybism. I remember Mr Pittsorla as head of HIDE saying that we went ahead, that the contract was signed, that we should congratulate him. It's been two years since then, things are the same, after two years, and now, after yesterday's opinion of the CAS, we have a blurred landscape again. Every year and a half, then, and a backward. And in relation to the course of this investment, the landscape remains in SYRIZA blurred. It goes on to be confirmed, Mr President, after three years of what I have said repeatedly in the Chamber, that, with these delays, the SYRIZA wants to avoid putting a bulldozer into this investment, at least in the margins of his term of office. And it is not only the investment, it is also the areas in the Municipality of Greek and the Municipality of Alimos, which have concerns about what was decided yesterday and was consulted. Mr President, I would like to end with two other issues. With regard to Article 2 of the amendment, which has been withdrawn and which concerns ERT musicians, your curiosity is a proverbial one. First of all, what do you guys have to do with these issues? These issues must be dealt with by the Minister for Culture and they must enter into the normal legislative dialogue. What do you guys have to do with these issues? Amendments forward - back, one bring, one take! It is wrong to withdraw it, in so far as inequalities are produced, in relation to Article 1 of the same amendment for other musicians. You're lost! Put things in a class! Finally, Mr President, I am closing down with a reference to the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy. Mr. Koutsoukos was very well retreated in the past. New Democracy cannot make regressions to the historical past with claims, because for us "Zappy" is very recent, and within the unity of the crisis, as a historic period, the "Zapopeia" and the other mixtures we remember them very well, because we felt them in our towel, when you were then Anti-Population and you supposedly had another policy mix that was not there. If we go back and get out of the crisis, which each of us has the right to refer critically to others, I would like to remind you of the course towards the Eurozone and the governments of Costas Simitis. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, too. Mr. Madda, he didn't ask for another reason, so you have him.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u35	I'd like to speak at the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u36	Mr. Maddash said he'd speak last. So we're on our way...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u37	Mr President, we have not talked about the amendments. You said that the rapporteurs, who object to ratification, will speak about the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u38	But you didn't ask for the floor. I'd be happy to give it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u39	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u40	Parliamentary representatives are speaking now. Here, Mr. Panayotare, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. A lot of pain and sensitivity caught you once again on tax issues and tax evasion, agiting our country. Your hypocrisy is extinguished, along with the hypocrisy of the whole European Union. What is the point of all this, when a few months ago in this Chamber you brought a piece of legislation, again, a harmonisation, which was about combating tax evasion in banking and not just? Of course, in that legislation we have all learned - because we did not know - that all the major countries of the European Union also have tax havens within their territory, where the exceptions to banking control and exchange of information, whether on tax issues or on anything else. Therefore, all the legislations you bring within this House, which you are supposed to want to pursue tax evasion, are rather hypocritical and have absolutely no real effect. In practice, apart from what we have told you, we see what is happening with large multinationals, such as 'SIEMENS', where the Greek state has asked that Mr Christoforikos be tried in Greece and Germany, a European Union country, does not give us that right. Sure, how would you like to come? I guess Mr. Christophore is right for you. Why, not forget, for some in this House, "SIEMENS" was the one that gave 2% of all supplies as a hate to the two major political parties, PASOK and New Democracy. No one had denying it. Your own executives have admitted it and everything's fine, it's nothing at all. What can we discuss when the globalised society in which we live and are trying to impose us is found by a multitude of triangular transactions? The large multinational companies, mainly multinational companies, have found solutions to all their problems, in order not to actually tax them anywhere or to be taxed in a country which has a lower tax rate. But that's not enough for them either, because with triangular transactions they get little profits, so whatever the rate of taxation is they don't care much about it. We have also seen another German company, the HOCHTIEFF, which was involved in our homeland in numerous projects, at the Olympic Games, at the airport and which saved the Greek State with over 400 million euros, not paying VAT, not even paying the municipal fees to the municipalities in which the airport is located. And that's because there's English law. Because that is what this agreement is saying, which, incidentally, had been concluded at the time of Simitis. If he was with another law, then things might have been different. So what justice within the European Union are we talking about? Remind the cherry, the culmination. After doing what "HOCHTIEFF", after eating 400m euros from the Greek State, he continued to take construction works on Olympia Street, road construction projects in Ionia Street and elsewhere. Almost all contracts are in it too. We also see, since we are talking about justice among the European tax countries, the Financial Stability Fund, which you have brought us and put it in the neck of the Greek people, has taken tens of millions of euros from the Greek people and borrowed in periods of tragic times, so that it recapitalises the constantly bankrupt and does nothing at all. And we see dozens of CFS members have changed in recent years and you have passed laws on immunity in their ethnic acts. Two things must happen if we want to improve tax revenue - as you say - and hit tax evasion where we can. The first way is to create economic walls, borders, in this country, that the globalised regime does not prevail. Whoever works here is taxed, in accordance with the rules of that country. Otherwise, if he doesn't want to take his bowls off and go somewhere else. It is certain that others will find themselves covering his void, who will want to be subject to Greek laws. In short, protectionism at all levels in order to protect the Greek economy, Greek workers and Greek products. If again, because you are all empathetic now in a globalised society - you love it, but everyone except us - then what remains is to play their game, but play it properly. To create a legislative framework in this country, the best in Europe, as Ireland did, and suddenly, see tens, hundreds, thousands of businesses coming from all over Europe, and not only, to settle here, with what this may mean in matters of unemployment, in matters of property, in matters of taxation, in matters of profits, in matters of revenue. But you don't want to do any of this. You are the first to vote when the European Union brings something, whether it is a ratification, whether it is harmonisation or anything else, which usually affects Greek interests and you are the last ones to claim something for our country. We have also seen this in the cases of earthquakes in Lesvos, Kos, which you did not even do the papers to obtain compensation, as is constantly done at the expense of the Greeks, for the benefit of all the others. As for the three amendments you have put forward, we are clearly in the first place because this most ill tactic, which you have outlined, is repeated every day, in every bill you bring here. Secondly, we also wanted to see the amendments. One amendment on its own is an entire bill, which should be in consultation, bodies to come and to do anything. As far as the others are concerned: we have seen that you have brought an amendment, you are making some articles, you bring some other articles, which shows your insight into your unsatisfactoryness. The third amendment, which has just come, is how much we are interested in, because that is where things work quite differently. We also see in the legislative improvements that you have brought, that you have made a "wonderful" legislative improvement. A moment ago the speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Germenis, said something about the fines. He said that for a multinational, which has billions of cigarettes a year, fines of 5,000 euros and 10,000 euros are funny. And you've made the "damaging" change and we see here in the legislative improvements that in the second part of paragraph 4 of Article 3: "Obligation to submit reports by Country", the words "10 thousand (10,000)" are replaced by the words "25 thousand (200) euros" and the words "five thousand (5,000) euros" by "tens (10,000) euros". We cannot tell you what you have done to them, because we will be struck by the President. The point is, however, that at the moment you're chasing cocktails and whacks, who take off their piece of money and possibly illegalize them, and you're plucking them with heavy fines, you're actually mocking the biggest tax evaders and those who are working against our country all the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the Educational Programme "The Workshop of the Republic" organized by the Foundation of Parliament, twenty-three students and students and an educational attendant from the 5th Petroupoli Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Vardalis, special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u43	When am I supposed to talk, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u44	You said you'd speak last, so I left you last. Here you go, Mr. Vardalis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be brief. I shall only refer to the amendments. As regards the first one tabled, Amendment No 1261/204, we agree that the ILO should be able to carry out checks on undeclared and uninsured work and vote on it. The second, Amendment No 1263/205, consistsed of four - five, but one - different from one - articles on the issues it deals with. Our opinion and proposal are that they should be voted on separately, because in others we agree not. We cannot vote on the whole amendment with one vote on different things. For example, with Article 1, as the amendment is formulated, we agree, as far as we are concerned, with the remuneration of the Special Educational Personnel and the EDPS at universities, and we will vote on it. For the second article, which you have withdrawn, Minister, I think the reason you have told us does not say anything about the substance. "It is withdrawn to come to another bill." When? What bill? How much longer will this case be dulled to address a fair request concerning ERT's music sets? In our opinion, it should not be withdrawn. We agreed, and we would vote for it. I don't know what made you withdraw it. In any case, however, this problem, in our view, needs to be addressed immediately. With paragraph 3 of this amendment, which concerns issues of the Deposit and Loan Fund, we agree and shall vote on it. But we disagree and vote against the fourth article on the Independent Public Income Authority. In the last article of the amendment, which concerns the amendment of provisions of Law 4484/2017, we will vote'residents'. That is why we call for the vote to be taken separately. With the last amendment, 1266/206, we are opposed and will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, too. Mr Kammenos, special speaker of the Independent Greeks, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u47	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm going to raise three issues. I heard before the PASOK Parliamentary spokesman - Democratic Incorporation, Mr Loverdos, say about the extension we are giving for the voluntary disclosure of incomes. I would like to inform the House, and for the Minutes, that incomes exceeding EUR 2 billion have been revealed and revenues have been collected close to EUR 500 million, half a billion. About 480 million have already been collected. One month has therefore been predicted, because there are incomplete cases, incomplete dossiers, but also because there is a struggle from them and from the public to collect. So it is the most sensible thing to do to increase public revenue. So it's in the public interest. I just wanted to say the number. I would like to make a second comment and say a few words about the bill. I heard them talk about the Greek thing. I'm very concerned about the Greek. It was a very good step, what happened yesterday. What concerns me in the decision is that the eighty acres are many. I just want it to be recorded. I saw that the old decision - the suggestion - was two thousand five hundred acres, which had inside municipalities and inhabited areas. People can't understand that. There are too many publications coming out. We'll have to make it clear. I have to say this to the government as soon as possible, because there is a press spiral at the moment. Everyone says what they want, because we haven't seen the decision. Let's see her as soon as possible, as she came out of the C.T.A. yesterday. Let us go further and see what the contract we signed, that is, the memorandum of cooperation with the archaeological service, who assumes responsibility, who bears the costs, and how the work will proceed in parallel, as with the Niarchus. We find something, we cover it, we check it, we register it, and the investment is progressing at the same time to the benefit of both the workers and the regions and also of the Greek economy. In conclusion, I should like to inform you - the latest news - of the issue of information exchange for multinational companies, and of the triangular or non-disclosures of incomes between multinationals and not just companies. At the moment 50 countries, and not just the European Union, have gone into this process. Let me give you an example of the tax havens in Europe, such as Liechtenstein, with the capital Vantuz, which was a tax office or like Luxembourg. If, for example, a Frenchman or a Greek person as soon as we're done opening an account there by a main company, a personal company, a parent company or a subsidiary of the company, it's not necessary for the Greek State to request assistance. Directly Vaduz sends the Greek State the evidence back, having his name. That's the good thing that's done. There is no need to initiate the procedure the country from which the account holder goes or is taxed in one of these tax havens. The important thing is that the islands, the old colonies of Denmark, Great Britain, the Netherlands, all these countries slowly, under the same procedure as I explained in Vaduz or Luxembourg, will automatically be lost heavens - this definition I am giving - will not be tax havens. So as soon as one reveals one's incomes there, he will save himself from criminal matters both in Greece and in the rest of Europe and throughout the world, because all these colonies will no longer be paradise. It creates many problems in the'mama' countries, but let them be careful. The world is now changing, and we must all take care of our tax revenues in the interests of the citizens. Because you cannot also tax anyone from avoiding or avoiding taxation legally in a tax haven, especially within the European Union, where we have the great, as I have said many times in my suggestions, fiscal inequality and tax competition between countries. "Why should the funds be here and not go to Ireland?" I said as an example. Finally, let us say that we must, as I said next time, be as ahead as we can. What is happening currently is because they have predicted those who are paid to save tax on customers, because this is how the world economy works, it is as follows. The exchange of seats is not just moving my seat from Athens, from APM 17610 of the centre, and I go to Bulgaria to an APM or to a Bulgarian postal code. They buy or merge companies and exchange shares. That was the oldest tactic, we did it when I was abroad. By buying or merged yourself as a company, with a company outside - outside the country, like in Ireland - by exchanging shares, you are taxing Ireland tax. That's what's happening now. And mergers to notice them a little, because the evil that comes from the exchange of shares is that it's changing its registered office legally, because you're merged with someone who's in a different tax regime than you're buying or buying. It is no accident that much lower companies seem to buy far higher. That's how it's done. A company may have a value of a euro and acquire a company worth 100 euros. And that's what I said before. In other words, the amendments will all be voted on by the bill, which we consider to be very appropriate. I would also propose giving bonuses to those who are looking for what I and others say. Because those who are licking the money of those who can tax get a lot of money, because they are paid to legally hide incomes. Therefore, our public service must do what they do in large countries, such as France, Germany - Austria is a little late - giving bonuses and very good fees and organising their system so that the one who goes to find the thief competes with the one who goes to hide the money. Because they operate with a 1,000-1,500 euros salary or 800 euros and the threat of the court. We lived before you and Mr Alexiadis. We had a tax court, we found a man who had hidden 20-30 million - not to say names now - and the people who controlled him went to court. They were being prosecuted by a lawsuit by the one who found that he stole the money, took them to court for a breach of duty, and blackmailed the natural person, the curator who found him stealing 30 million. And the public had no performance, Minister. We solved this. He wasn't going to defend his clerk who found the thief. These must be solved and we must protect the tax and the tax officers and all the employees and give them a bonus. If they find us a lot of money, it's good to get paid. That's the way the economy is, and that's how it has to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, too. The party's parliamentary representative, Potami Mr Mavrotas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. I will be relatively brief too. Regarding the ratification of the multilateral agreement of the competent authorities, intra-group transactions, multinationals with positive tax planning - we have told the committees as well - we are positive. On the subject of the amendments, we are positive of the last Amendment 1266 on the extension of the voluntary disclosure of taxable material. We are also positive in Amendment No 1261 concerning the cooperation between the ILO and the Labour Inspectorate. Now, with regard to the pluralism of the five articles, which have been made four, I shall refer to Article 1 on the wage arrangements for the SPDs, the SSPs and the university and the ATEs, but also for the military schools and all this. We think he's coming quite desecrated and a little clipboard. We believe it should have come under the normal procedure, called on the institutions too, because we are being created by a number of questions. For example, in paragraph 2, why do you insist on the wage classification of the SSPs and SSPs of the Technological Institutions and of the ASEAN in relation to their respective universities? If they have the same standard qualifications, why should they be paid differently? Why is there no specific teaching and research allowance for EITS? Also, the figure for the SSPs of the Technological Foundations is 55% for the professor's remuneration, regardless of the grade. In other words, it is a flat. In paragraph 4, in military schools, even though higher schools are higher schools, they are treated differently from other universities and this raises some questions. In the meantime, this disparity and the disparity that exists on the various levels is rather strange. Others are used for wages and allowances and elsewhere use the respective degrees. I close with paragraph 5, where there is a clear mismatch here. How, for example, is the basic diploma for a member of a specialist training staff, i.e. an SPD, equal to a doctorate in relation to the salary for a EDPS, namely, for a member of laboratory and teaching staff? If the PhD in a EDPS member is EUR 300 the allowance, a EDPS member is EUR 150, that is, the corresponding simple degree for a member of the EDPS. What remains in conclusion is that in this case the logic of dealing with who is closer to the ears of the Minister concerned and their essential requirements are met, while those who are not close to the ears of the ministers remain below what has to do with allowances, wages and wages. That's from us. We will be positive in terms of this bill, essentially the ratification of the Treaty. We will also be positive in the amendments, with the criticism that has just been heard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u50	Mr Cavalellas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u51	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, we would like to condemn the practice of introducing unnecessary amendments at the last minute, without being able to study them and have a more complete picture of what the government says and explains to us. I would of course like to refer to the amendments, since last time in committee we agreed in the first part. We need to be fully harmonized, at all levels, with the other members of the European Union, so that we can move forward as well. I have heard the Minister speaking about the fight against tax evasion, tax evasion and virtual relocation. Probably the virtual relocation will harm trade more if it becomes a complete relocation if some companies leave here. The practice you're following with the increased taxation, with the hunting that's done, will all be gone. The technology today has also moved on in terms of high technology, with a pretext of some software produced in a foreign country, it will be able to leave all the capital outside and that cannot be chased. Let us now go to Amendment No 6. 1261 on the Special Secretariat of the Economic Crime Corps, added to the relevant audit bodies of undeclared and uninsured work with the Single Insurance Body and the Labour Inspectorate. That is where we shall say 'yes'. But in Amendment No 1263, although you removed the second article that looked quite photographic and rosphetological, we again have reservations about Article 1. Of course, in the third article, we could say 'yes', but we have serious objections. We are going to judge her completely, as you brought her together and say 'no'. I will analyse the position of the Centroon Association. I would remind you once again that we have taken a positive step in favour of the adoption of the international convention, considering that its integration into national law will be a valuable tool for combating an aspect of one of the most important problems facing the Greek State, that of collecting tax revenues across borders from multinational companies. As far as we are concerned, however, the multinationals are leaving once - as there will no longer be any reason for this issue. We're all going to be abandoned. Ensure that we create a fair tax system, that the investment environment is friendly and not that you wish those who invest in Greece to go to hell. We hear bilingualism from the government. Others say 'we want the investments', others say 'Get out of here'. There is bilingualism, not to say trilingualism, since there is the ANLE partnership. In any case, as far as the substance of the matter is concerned, we will say that we agree - let us say - on a combination of economies. We also agree with the first amendment. We disagree on second. We are in some 'yes' and some 'no'. We are going to say 'no' rather. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, too. Mr Antoniou, SYRIZA's special speaker, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. For two minutes, I'd like to make a placement. As far as the main body of the bill is concerned, the ratification of the multilateral agreement on combating tax evasion is concerned, I think that it is a general feeling that this is in this direction and it helps in this war that the states have against the phenomenon of tax evasion, which is a major wound to modern economies and has a solid revenue and resources from societies in order to channel them to social needs. In fact, it does not completely solve the problem of tax evasion. Tax evasion is constantly working on various ways, as is the case with companies with this trend of infraction, so legislation must continuously equip the tax authorities with the means to coordinate and fight. The government has this political will and has so far shown that it has made serious efforts in this area, which it has done, and this seems to be apparent from the financial results of the previous year. Therefore, we do not need to say more. I want to talk a little bit about the amendments. Opposition has a common practice of glossing favourable topics that are regulated by our amendments, talking about procedural issues, whether they should have come to a main bill or whether they should have come in the form of an amendment. I will say in particular on the subject of the first amendment, which concerns strengthening the control mechanisms in terms of combating uninsured work. Was that supposed to be in a whole bill to come? It is a regulation particularly positive, which equips authorities with an additional weapon, which is the IMO, in intervening checks, when it finds a breach of tax law, to draw up reports that it sends to the relevant institutions to impose penalties. The second amendment on extending the deadline for the voluntary declaration of undeclared income is also positive and it is wrong to say that nothing has been done here. Mr Van den Broek, Member of the Commission. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the 2 billion euros have been revealed through this process and over 500 million euros have been declared. So it's positive. It is also very positive that the regulation on mortgage loans from the Deposit and Loans Fund, which had been securitised and could not be subject to the beneficial provisions concerning those who are consistent with their obligations and who normally paid the instalments, which should have been rewarded by them. Therefore, with this amendment, the regulation also extends to these loans, which have been securitised and are particularly important for a great category of our fellow citizens. As far as pay issues are concerned, I think they are in a positive direction. They improve the wage situation of these categories, as is apparent from the expenditure caused by the budget. I therefore believe that it should also be accepted by the House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, too. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Mandas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u55	I shall speak at the end, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u56	All right, Mr. Mada. Mr. Vlachos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u57	Mr President, as far as the agreement is concerned, our vote will be positive, as we have said in committee. As far as the amendments are concerned, we have had the right here, subject to the reservation that we kept in the whole process, because this is how we expected things to go. For Amendment No 1261, which was tabled and for which there is an agreement on the substance, but which is also due, we shall vote positively, we shall vote 'yes'. As for the other two amendments, there is the amendment which consists of four - five Articles and until the last minute the Minister or adds or removes them. We heard earlier about the music sets bringing them into another bill. We in this conversation can't get in. It's a mini-project. It contains different things. In some we agree, we disagree or ask questions, and we would like it to be debated more. Proof of what I'm saying is how simplicity the Minister withdrew an article, the music sets, to go to another one. Is that a point of order? The rapporteur said so earlier. Is he going to another bill? Is this a technical matter? Didn't he get stuck here and get stuck somewhere else? We were not convincingly explained why Article 2 was withdrawn. In addition, as I said, although there is agreement on some individual issues, we cannot vote on it because it is too late. As for the third, 1266, which was tabled in 'twelfth and ten' literally again, we are obviously in favour of tax controls, but not in this process 'the ninety days will be fifteen, they will be thirty'. Nothing explains. When they come at the last minute and in the way they come, they can't have a vote from us. We therefore vote in favour of Amendment No 1261 and against the other two amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u58	Thank you. Mr. Kutsuko, have you asked for the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u59	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u60	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u61	Mr President, you have told me that you will give me after the speech and I have not completed my position. I would therefore like to thank you, although I would like to speak after Mr Manda, who has the privilege of responding to all of us as a Parliamentary representative, in order to cover the gaps in politics. That is the role of the parliamentary representative of the majority. Minister, we have heard your position on the ratification of the multilateral agreement, which has been arranged by a position on the achievements of your Government on tax evasion. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, on the basis of the data from parliamentary control, which is completely recent, what I said, namely that tax evasion lives and reigns, is confirmed, as the 3 billion that the government has said it will collect from so-called lists and tax evasion on fuel and cigarettes, based on official figures, is about 100 million. The audits, on the basis of the AIA's report, have been limited. So there is no need for such a slump in the time that we all know where things are and when, on the basis of the report on the implementation of the budget, there is a significant downturn in revenue. These are recorded. It is 1.7 billion of the targets, which the government covers with a cut in expenditure, to be within the objective of primary surpluses. I say this as a political observation to what we have said. As far as ratification is concerned, I have explained why we are going to vote on it. I had the opportunity to make a historical regression. However, I did not understand why Mr Vlachos attempted to refer to the story of the Karamanlis government. This period has been recorded with the table showing a reduction in revenue and an increase in expenditure, so the proliferation of the deficit, which reached 15 billion. We don't have to talk about it. I do not understand why Mr Dendias, without provoking it, referred to the historic role of Andreas Papandreou, who, as opposition, created the prerequisite for the Memorandum he sent to PASOK in 1981, so that our country could take the Mediterranean integrated programmes, the development of the regional policies of the Delors package and so on. I say that to record a story and not to be twisted. I now come to the way the government legislates. We have an amendment to four articles...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u62	Don't remember the packages. What did you do with the packages?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u63	Mr. Vlao, you had no reason to mention the period when he charged the country. I don't understand why you're doing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u64	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u65	Tell us what you did with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u66	Let Mr Karamanlis enjoy where he enjoys. Let go of that now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u67	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u68	Leave it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u69	Let Karamanlis go. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u70	You referred to Mr Karamanlis. I didn't mention Mr. Karamanlis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u71	It's quite a box bag. Respect him.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u72	Dialogue shall not be allowed by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u73	I said, you mentioned it. We respect him as former Prime Minister of the country. The period 2004-2009 has been historically recorded.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u74	Leave the story. You won't write the story. Half of PASOK's in jail, and the others are indicted and you're going to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u75	Mr. Kutsuko...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u76	Mr. Vlavo, the official evidence speaks.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u77	Mr. Kutsuko, you know that dialogue is not allowed by the Rules of Procedure. This is where you're having a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u78	After he cuts me off, what should I do?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u79	All right, now!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u80	Mr. Vlao, please don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u81	I reminded you of a law to see what's out of place.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u82	May I continue, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u83	Keep going, but please don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u84	So I come to the way the government legislates. We have an amendment with five articles, from which one has been removed. I said that if she had come in time, we would have asked for a hearing of bodies, because we do not understand from Article 1 because she lacks the special teaching staff working at the TEIs. We would call on the bodies and we would also call on the music sets of the ERT to explain why they are being undermined and why the administration of the ERT, which does so much, does not solve the problem. Now this device has been removed. We'll talk about it another chance. In any case, as far as this amendment is concerned, we agree with the individual articles. We would call on the Bureau to make this clear, because we want to vote 'at present' for the ADA. We had not agreed as an exception with the conversion of the General Secretariat of Public Revenue to an independent authority. For the rest, we agree. I come to the amendment on cooperation...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u85	The reservation is recorded under the Rules of Procedure, but the amendment is not partitioned. Record the reservation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u86	All right, we will vote 'yes', but the government and the Bureau must understand that when an amendment is in agreement with four articles and disagrees with one, it must be given one way of expressing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u87	It's placed. Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u88	Good. I come to the amendment on the cooperation of the ILO with the Economic Police, etc.. I said it was a move of our own initiatives and we agree. I now come to the extension of voluntary revelation. When this arrangement came, I said that the way this process is shaped, in fact it concerns those who are in the eye of control. The eye of the audit is the ones on the famous lists, especially on the Bank of Greece's list of fifty thousand names, which was created following the government's legislative initiative to open accounts. It does not concern those who in various ways have gained 'black' money because they have not been seen by anyone and will therefore not be brought forward. I do not disagree with the extension. I note that. But not to think that this is how we deal with the problem. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] The honourable Member may have said earlier about 2 billion, and we will see if it is 2 billion of the declared figures. At 2 billion, Mr Colleague, with rates of 25 to 40, the other would be the certificate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u89	Please, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u90	But, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that this process ultimately has a contradiction and I shall end with it. On the one hand, the government had an objective for the so-called lists, which it had made public the feeling that we would face up to the debt problem of the country. On the other hand, the data so far are very poor. I made a report. I don't know if the evidence has changed. Approximately 100 million were receipts from all these lists, because another one is confirmation and another is collection. Unfortunately, this is how things are, and we are still out of reality, in the sense that the Council of State has come and actually restricts the possibility of extending the limitation, so that all those who have not been checked over the last few years are now in the unavoidable state. This is unfortunately the situation. It's a contradiction. We do not disagree with the extension - I note it - but we have to point out that we are actually doing a hole in the water. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u91	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-five students and students and two educational attendants from the 2nd Keratea Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative Christos Mandas has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. Let me start by saying that we are currently holding a multilateral agreement, a convention which obviously - and I think it seemed from all sides - has a positive sign. I would like to repeat this very important element, which will apply from now on, that with the agreement that we are dominating multinationals who have consolidated revenues of more than EUR 750 million must report per country. I repeat: a country-by-country report on their consolidated revenue. This is a positive step. There are other steps in the ratification. This, however, is a critical positive step, of course, in an area that we must say has many deficits, many problems and hide hypocrisy. We know all about this. We know what world we are living in and must not forget its liquidity, its transientity. I should also like to mention in order to record, even the forecasts of very valid analysts, that we may also enter a new crisis. I'm saying it's to record it. Therefore, things are not white or black, they are not too clear, they are fluid, they are transitional and I think this particular step is a positive step. As well as positive steps, positive policies are being implemented with the amendments which have come from the government. And with the extension of undeclared income and positive wage arrangements and the positive arrangements for them, which are traded with the Deposit and Loan Fund, and which had securitised mortgage loans that are similar to others. They're positive arrangements. Mr President, you will allow me to comment on some of the things that have been heard in this Chamber concerning topicality and history, I would say, because we have also dived in history today in many respects. Finally, I should like to close up with what is the reality in the parliamentary procedure and in the legislature, because we need to speak in terms of reality too. First of all, let me begin - I think there will be a broad debate in the next period on this - with the budget, with the preliminary draft budget. I remind you, first of all, that it's a draft. Let me say that for the first time there is a budget which in all the Memorandum years - because we are still in the Memorandum years - records and will record a positive growth figure. I'm only saying one clue. Does that mean we've solved the problems? Apparently not. Clearly. Does it mean that we do not have very serious difficulties and problems, as has already been mentioned in taxation, for example, of the middle strata? I do not want to talk about the tax evasion of the middle classes and I do not want to talk about old stories and how we got here with the percentages we had as a country in taxation. It was five, six units away from the European Union's average. We have problems. We have difficulties. But not in predictions anymore, but in reality. This element of growth, which is recorded together with the element of the reduction of unemployment, not the one we would like but the real reduction, not the wages that we would like, but the problems we have, we have a positive record, in my opinion, and in the budget. We will analyse it and discuss it in the next few days. Secondly, there has been a great deal of talk about investment in the recent period and the investment of the Greek. I would like to reiterate on this occasion that this government is determined, despite the ruthless war by interests and the media, to want to repeat even today old situations under the table, to fight legality and respect all procedures at all levels. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we respect legitimacy at all levels. It is important that we have had a decision from the CSCE yesterday, a procedure which we fully respect, in our view, in terms of transparency, in terms of legality, in accordance with the conditions of compliance with the procedures, opens the way for this investment. We must all support this, Mr President. Because, if we observe all the procedures, it protects us from blocking the investment in appeals to the Council of State. Of course, no political power should easily be identified and made a press representative in various business interests, whether in any case, or at the same time. We will then lose the opportunity as a political system to judge how we should judge all these procedures. Unfortunately, we have seen, if not in the case of the Greek, in the previous case where some forget it, in the case of ELDORADO GOLD, to identify political forces in the most obvious way, I would say, with business interests, at the same time as the other investment of ELDORADO does not follow the 2004 convention - because we are talking about taxation now - that is, to make a pure metallurgy and instead of making gold and the other metals that it has to produce, which will be taxed in our country, it sends the various mixtures outside our country. Plus environmental issues, along with economic issues in the region, which also has other activities. All this must be carefully respected and committed to respecting it. This must be supported by all political forces. I repeat that it is wrong for the political system to be identified either with business or with other interests of the media, because it then loses the possibility in a credible way of judging things. Allow me to raise two further issues, because there has been a lot of talk about the history of our Left and about the history of our own left, our own space, how we have made cybis, how we made flaks, how we used to do tumbles, how, while we were anti-Europeans, we have now become pro-Europeans, and we are getting congratulations, etc. [[At this point, the end of the speech bell of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] I would say, firstly, that the political forces that make us so critical to look...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u93	But please, Mr. Mada, be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u94	You will give me one more minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u95	Wait a minute. Deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u96	I've been waiting patiently all this time. We must all look at ourselves - and we must look at ourselves - and see who is exactly European power: who, as our Left does, must change, that this Europe must change, that Europe's architecture must change, that we must not continue on the path of cruel austerity, that we must remove inequalities with gloomy surpluses and large deficits. Who really is a guarantor or supporter - I would say - of European values, solidarity, cooperation, etc.Huh? The one who fights so that all countries share the current problems of this time in a similar manner, such as the great problem of immigration? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] And I would recommend to political forces - of course the colleagues in this Chamber are not from this side - such as the Qualified Opposition and the Democratic Couple to look at themselves too. I am sorry that Mr Dendias said this about our resignation, because at the same time as he says that, at the same time as we are talking about the fact that there are mutations with a right-wing mark, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u97	Please finish, Mr. Mada.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u98	I want you to give me a minute, Mr President, and I am really finishing with that. I'm going to say some figures in connection with the government's lawmaking and how it legislates. First of all, I would like to say that for the first time training programmes have been launched, concerning the good legalisation of the government's General Secretariat with the Training Institute of the National Centre for Public Administration and Government, the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction and the Citizens' Counselor. Specialized executives from all these sites help to produce a better result. Secondly, let us not forget that we are legislating in specific circumstances, Mr President, and ladies and gentlemen, in difficult comitology. Let us not forget this at all. In this context, however, I would like to mention only one element: in 2014 there were fifty-seven bills and two hundred-seven amendments. In 2016, there were ninety-one bills and three hundred three amendments. So don't tell us that I've allegedly made this show by Mr. Mitsotakis putting in this pouch and the amendments of his own party and other parties - we legislate much worse, that we are supposedly the badest government in the legislature. We're not saying we don't have any problems. We are not saying that there are no difficulties, but also the reports on good legislation, which I urge you to look at, I think they show the truth. Finally, in incorporating European law, Mr President - and this must be heard in the Chamber - Greece, our country, was a fifth country in Europe. This item is logged in 2016. Let's take a look at these before we emit cords in all directions. In any case, I repeat, we are making mistakes, we have problems, but we have made considerable progress, and that is undeniable, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr. Mada. Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u100	I might need less time, Mr President. First of all, I have to respond to a number of questions raised by the speakers. As far as the lists are concerned, I'm going to refer to the Lagard list, because I happen to have some evidence with me. I don't like to say numbers, but I have to tell them right now. By 2014, therefore, a hundred and fifty - three cases had begun. Thirty-eight cases completed. Respectively, from 2015 until 2017, control began in three hundred sixty-six cases and two hundred cases were completed. For the period up to 2014, the amounts established were EUR 23 million. For the respective period 2015-2017 it was EUR 243 million. Of this EUR 45 million has been collected. If all this seems to you small amounts or a few checks, then tell us what you have done all these years and why the completion of the cases is quadrupled. From there on and with the latest decision of S.A., as well as with the circular of the Independent Public Revenue Authority, checks on lists continue. There won't be any lists left in time. Everyone will be checked and brought in the results. From there on, smuggling: 2013 was a hundred seventy-nine eighty-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three. Amount of attestation 132,627,000. In 2017, from January 1st to August 2017, sixty-five thousand fifty-seven checks and 240.226.994 the amount of the certificate. The average is three thousand six hundred eighty-six. Controls are made more targeted, controls are carried out in larger companies. If we see that there were seven hundred thirty-seven average in 2013, in 2014 they were seven hundred forty-five, in 2017 three thousand six hundred eighty-six. We continue the fight for smuggling, continue the fight for tax evasion and with more targeted moves in larger amounts rather than in microprocessors and small smugglers. As far as the revenue for the budget is concerned, most of us will actually see you in the budget debate. I think it is very important that we manage public money with respect. In fact, as the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman said, some groups are taxed more than they should. In the past, however, we have had too much tax revenue. However, they did not manage them in the way we had to and have reached the moment, instead of having the surpluses that entered the 2014 budget, for example, reaching deficits. We are currently overcovering for 2017. We manage this money as best as possible for the benefit of the Greek people. We're going back to the Greek people. We do not keep them in drawers or anywhere else and from there on, I think he appreciates that and we see it every day by the Greek people. In relation to the auditors, said by a colleague, I would like to say that, as has already been said, we have safeguarded the work of auditors with some legislation. From there on, however, we will extend it where necessary in order to help them respond to their work. And a few words now about the Greek. The government's political will is to proceed with the investment. In fact, because my competence is both the Hellenic Office and the particular part, we are ready. We're waiting for the investment to come. From there on, with the declaration of the 350 acres archaeological site from the CSCE yesterday, we believe that a major step was taken to implement the investment. Good to come, wait, we're ready. Already set up the Services, so that the investment can proceed. To return a little to the agreement, I would like to say the following: I said it and my speech to the committee and it has been recorded. The Multilateral Agreement shall enter into force the Multilateral Convention which has been incorporated into the internal legal order with Law No 4153/2013. This is reflected in the explanatory statement. The state didn't start today. We don't claim that. We just keep going on with all this and get what's there as soon as possible. Not only are we bringing it in, but we also implement it with the corresponding controls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u101	Me too, Mrs. Papanachius.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u102	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u103	Please, Mr. Cammene. We have immunity lifts then. I'll give you a minute's speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u104	For 20 seconds, Mr. President. Thank you very much. To help a little bit of the thinking of colleagues, I would remind you of the Greek issue that the archaeological law, which torments our Government, which is trying to find a solution, has been passed by Mr. Venizelos and Mrs. Mendoni, who predicted that the costs of archaeological supervision, pioneering and maintenance will be covered by the State. And we signed a memorandum of cooperation with the investor to pay the expenses. I would just like it to be written in the Minutes, because we have heard too much about the honored PASOK and how it has saved Greece. Let's say we're still tormented by this law today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance is adjourned: 'Following the Multilateral Agreement of Authorities for the Exchange of Reports by Country, implementing provisions and other provisions'. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u106	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u107	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u108	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u109	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u110	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u111	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u112	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u113	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u114	The draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘The Multilateral Agreement of Authorities for the Exchanging of Reports by Country, implementing provisions and other provisions’ was approved in principle by a majority. We are entering the vote on articles and amendments. Asked by this House: Can Article first be accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u115	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u116	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u117	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u118	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u119	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u120	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u121	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u122	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u123	The first article was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the second paragraph as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u124	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u125	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u126	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u127	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u128	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u129	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u130	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u131	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u132	The second paragraph of Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does the House accept Rule 3, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u133	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u134	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u135	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u136	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u137	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u138	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u139	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u140	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u141	Article 3 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 4 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u142	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u143	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u144	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u145	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u146	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u147	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u148	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u149	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u150	The fourth paragraph of Article 4 has therefore been accepted as being majority. Does this House agree to the fifth paragraph as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u151	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u152	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u153	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u154	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u155	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u156	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u157	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u158	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u159	The fifth paragraph of Article 5 was therefore accepted as being majority. Asked by this House: Can Article 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u160	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u161	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u162	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u163	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u164	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u165	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u166	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u167	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u168	The sixth paragraph of Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Asked by this House: Can Article 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u169	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u170	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u171	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u172	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u173	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u174	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u175	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u176	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u177	Article 7 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does the House agree to the eighth paragraph as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u178	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u179	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u180	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u181	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u182	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u183	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u184	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u185	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u186	The eighth paragraph of Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House accept the amendment with a general number of 1261 and a special number 204, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u187	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u188	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u189	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u190	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u191	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u192	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u193	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u194	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u195	The amendment under general number 1261 and a special 204 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept Amendment Nos 1263 and 205, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u196	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u197	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u198	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u199	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u200	Here you go. But, Mr President, I would like to point out something. In the House which shared the rapporteurs and the special speakers, this amendment refers to different articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u201	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, it cannot be broken down and voted on individually.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u202	So the whole of the amendment we are voting on 'the present'. I would remind you again, in the wage arrangements relating to OPs and SSPs, we say 'yes'. On the issues of the Deposit and Loans Fund, we say 'yes'. We say 'no' for AIA and 'the present' for the remaining amendments to Law 4484.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u203	We continue with the same amendment. What do the other parties vote for?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u204	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u205	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u206	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u207	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1263 and a specialist of 205 was accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same articles. Is the amendment accepted under a general number of 1266 and a special number of 206 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u208	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u209	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u210	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u211	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u212	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u213	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u214	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u215	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u216	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1266 and a special 206 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same articles. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Will the office be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u217	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u218	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u219	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u220	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u221	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u222	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u223	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u224	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u225	The hotel article was accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Following the Multilateral Agreement of Authorities for the Exchanging of Reports by Country, implementing provisions and other provisions’ was accepted in principle and under the articles. We are entering the vote of the bill and the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u226	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u227	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u228	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u229	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u230	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u231	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u232	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u233	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u234	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Under the Multilateral Agreement of Competent Authorities for the Exchanging of Reports by Country, implementing provisions and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of articles and all of which is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u235	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u236	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-four students and students and four educational attendants from the 5th Korydallos Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] You guys, watch the end of the vote. Previously, there was a debate. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point we will have a short break and will be back at 12 noon, on the subject of this House's work: the debate and decision, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, on applications for waivers of immunity from Members' immunity, in accordance with the special agenda distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u237	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION Requests for waiver of immunity: debate and decision, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and Rule 83 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, on applications for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament Ilias Kasidiari and Christoforou Vernardakis. The relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics announced the report on 28-9-2017, according to which the members of the Committee unanimously proposed that the waiver of Mr Ilias Kashiaris' immunity should be waived. The report was announced by the relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics on 28-9-2017, according to which the members of the Committee proposed, by a majority, that Mr Christoforos Vernardakis' immunity should not be lifted. Under Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, the House does not enter the substance of the cases, but is only investigated if the act in respect of which the waiver of immunity is sought is linked to the Members' political or parliamentary activity, or to prosecution or prosecution or prosecution of a case of political expedition. Also in accordance with Rule 83(7) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, the Parliament shall decide by raising the hand or rest on the request of the Public Prosecutor, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 108(1)(b). The floor shall always be given, on request, to the Member to whom the request relates and to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups or their alternates. I would remind you that, in accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents of 23 March 2005, we have agreed on applications for waiver of immunity that the House should decide by roll-call vote and by roll-call vote. The vote, in which each colleague will list his name, his constituency and the parliamentary group, will be registered in the respective Minutes. That is how we respond to the provisions of Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, which requires a clear vote. After the debate on the cases of today's special agenda is concluded, we shall proceed to a roll-call vote, as I have described. The first case concerns Mr Ilias Kassieris. The second relates to Mr Christoforos Vernardakis. Is there any colleague requesting the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure? Nobody. Is there any colleague requesting the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure? Nobody. Ladies and gentlemen, there will be a roll-call vote on this item. A list has been drawn up with the names of colleagues for requesting the waiver of immunity. Every colleague will vote next to the Members' names on whom the waiver of immunity is sought. The person who votes in favour of the waiver of immunity takes note of his preference next to the Member's name and to the column 'NAI', that is to say, says 'NAI' to the prosecutor's request for the waiver of immunity. He who votes against the lifting of immunity notes next to the Member's name and to the 'OHIM' column respectively. The voter will take note of it in the respective ballot column. The vote will take place on the list - as we have said - on the name, the constituency and the parliamentary group to which it belongs and will sign it, because the vote is rolled out in accordance with Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure. Then, with his name on the list of colleagues, he will deliver the ballot to colleagues Georgios Psychogios from SYRIZA and Apostolos Vesiropoulos from New Democracy, who will sign it and announce that the MP has voted. After the end of the vote there will be a counting of the votes by the Members I have mentioned, as will be the result of the ballots, which will be recorded together with the protocol of vote in the Minutes of today's sitting. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u238	So the House unanimously agreed. Finally, I would like to inform you that, as always, letters or fax numbers have been sent to the Bureau, pursuant to Rule 70A of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, to which they give their votes. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. Parliamentarians Mr Marios Katsis from SYRIZA and Mr Vassilis Yoyakas from New Democracy are on the list. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u239	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The sealed letters, which were sent to the Bureau by colleagues, in accordance with Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, will be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u240	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned, and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u241	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of a roll-call vote on the request for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament. A total of 188 Members voted. On the case of Mr Ilias Kassieris: In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 188 Members voted. On the other hand, there is a need to ensure that the Community's external relations with the countries of Central and Eastern Europe and the former Soviet 'PARON' voted no one. The request of the public prosecutor was therefore accepted for the waiver of Mr Cassidy's immunity. On the case of Mr Christoforou Bernardakis: In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 42 Members voted. On the question of immunity, i.e. 'OH', they voted 146 MPs. 'PARON' voted no one. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u242	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers for Foreign Affairs, Home Affairs, Economy and Development, Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, National Defence, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economic and Financial Affairs, Health, Administrative Reconstruction, Culture and Sport, Environment and Energy, Infrastructure and Transport, Migration Policy, Maritime and Immigration Policy, Rural Development and Tourism, and the Deputy Ministers of Home Affairs, Economy and Development, National Defence, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Foreign Affairs, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Health, Energy and Rural Development and Food, as well as the State Secretarys of State and Democracy of the Union, on the one hand, as well as the State Secretarys of State and Democracy, on the other hand. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-04-S1-commons.u243	With the consent of the House at 13.10 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday 5 October 2017 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
