ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the agenda, however, I have two communications to this House. The Standing Committee on Economic Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Definition of the Central Customs Convention, as regards the allocation of national collection costs retained at the time of making traditional own resources available to the European Union budget’. I would also like to inform the House of today's departure. The letter to the President of Parliament states: Mr President, I would like to inform you in writing that I no longer belong to the Potamian Parliamentary Group and I remain an independent MEP. Yours sincerely, Konstantinos Barriotas, MP Larissa".
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u2	We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: 'Amendment of the Code of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Agency and other provisions'. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting of 3 February 2017 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, articles and amendments. The rapporteur for SYRIZA Mr Dimitris Mardas has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, we have a legislative improvement to announce. Can we say it now before Mr Mardas talks, so that the rapporteurs will consider it later?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u4	Then, if you please, because I have given the floor now to Mr Marda. Mr. Marda, you can start.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment to the Code of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, together with various other provisions, is to be voted on in the House. According to this draft law, we have seventeen articles which introduce some changes and two articles, which abolish some and put this draft law into effect. With regard to Article 1, we have the re-establishment of the Centre for Analysis and Planning. The Centre for Analysis and Planning draws up design and strategy studies and recommendations and refers to all specialties. Here is a scientific director of indemnity and commands the centre with the head of the centre. There are seconded persons who meet the needs of this centre for three years. Also, in Article 2, we have the reconstitution of the Scientific Council, which consists of not more than seven members and lasting for three years and gives opinions on particular legal issues of international law and the euro. In Article 3 we have the establishment of the Office for Legislative Initiative, which comes directly from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with four people. In Article 4 we have a provision on confidentiality. There is a specific procedure for the disclosure of secret funds, which is more than EUR 25 000. Article 5 defines the seventh year as the age ceiling for leaving the service of the heads of the unpaid consular authorities. For persons over sixty-seven years of age, a health certificate is provided for each year. In Article 6, we have the Legal Council of the State for criminal and civil matters of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs shall not be prosecuted and shall not be charged for any opinion they have given in the performance of their duties. Article 7 provides for the maintenance of the degree of expert Ambassador Counsellor I to be priced even if he has not exhausted thirty years of service. In Article 8 we have some improvements related to Law4336/2015 on road transport, where there is provision for a transport of the building, regardless of the time when the staff member is transferred, for reasons of emergency. In Article 9 there is an adaptation of Greek legislation to European legislation, referring to the ceilings for the entry and exit of officials. Article 10 provides for the foreign allowance and travel expenses of the police who serve in embassies to be borne by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Here, of course, we don't have retroactive power. In Article 11, other languages such as German, Arabic, Chinese and Russian are also provided for in French as the second language. Article 12 establishes the Statistical Office as an independent unit in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs pursuant to Law 3832/2010. Article 13 provides for the cooperation of the Legal Council of the State and the HR in various matters which come to the European Court of Justice. Article 14 provides for the end of the EMCDDA and in the position of the EMCDDA we have the CSCE. In Article 15, we have the provision for full-time DPA members in the DPA. In Article 16, 30% of the revenues of the foreign authorities come to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It is revenue that comes from the known visas and anything else foreign visitors pay in the country or anything else receives from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In Article 17, an adjustment is made for the days of travelling outside the home and is increased by a decision of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. As you know, the ceiling is eighty days, but due to the needs of the Ministry, this number of days can be exceeded, so it is envisaged that this should be done both for civilian staff and for members of the government's offices. These are the provisions you are invited to vote on. As you can see, there is quite a strong place, which refers to the legal support of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. According to the experience we have had for a long time, it can be seen that a very large part of diplomacy is based on a set of legal arguments which are built by a fairly large set of legal offices in foreign countries. We therefore have to deal with many problems relating to foreign policy, through legal arguments, which interprets both the development of a research centre and an area of legal support. Other countries have many more legal support and research units linked to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We in these regulations are simply developing an area that has been degraded in the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u6	Minister, did you say you had any legislative improvements? Will you present them?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u7	I'll testify now. When I speak with the rapporteurs, I shall refer to legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u8	The rapporteur of the New Democracy, George Kumoutsakos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a draft law entitled 'Modification of the Code of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' and other provisions', a draft law without philosophy, without principle, a draft law which is deliberately selective - I would say rosphetologically selective - a draft law that is fragmentary. You all know that the agency of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is a code. After all, that is exactly what the title of this draft law says. The question is why it is not treated as a code. Why didn't the Ministry's leadership expect to bring the changes that he wishes to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Agency in a comprehensive way, in an integrated draft law? In fact, today the government brings us an advance payment of the agency. But the Agency of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and, in such times, it is incomprehensible to legislate in doses, without a plan, without consistency, without a single philosophy. You tell us that you choose to bring these articles, on the grounds that they regulate urgent matters for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And I ask: is this the Office for Legislative Initiative urgent? Is this a statistical emergency? And if that's urgent, the question of the households that you got it back isn't an emergency? The graduation - I stress - is it not a matter of urgency, which is clearly ignored by this draft law? The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is currently the only public body that has not made a rated classification of its employees since the resolution of No.4369/2016. This, in spite of the opinion of the Legal Council of the State, which states that what applies to other civil servants must also be applied to other civil servants, otherwise there will be direct legislation to apply to the officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs the classification regime described in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This is a ruthless omission of the obligation to recognise minimum staff rights, of the self-evident ranking of officials, as has been applied throughout the public sector as a whole. I am well aware of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and I tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that there are many open issues that really require immediate regulation. But they are not what we are talking about here today. All I understand is that it is urgent for the government, reading this bill, to ensure that the day is taken. You told the committee that this draft law places order on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Not only does it create a turbulence, anaesthesia, and - the worst of all, for my own perception - we create frictions and atrocities among the workers at the Ministry. Minister, I am sorry to say this, but instead of bringing a class with a regime that would be inspired by the principles of equality and equal treatment, provisions are being promoted that eventually divide the branches of the Ministry. Why am I saying this? Let's see: Article 1, Centre for Analysis and Planning. This is a evident attempt to degrade the Diplomatic Branch, for the benefit of various academics and experts. Attention, don't hurry to distort our position. We say 'yes' to a Ministry of Foreign Affairs with experts, but we say 'no' to a ministry of experts with marginalized diplomats. The draft law provides for the selection of academics in key positions, such as in the position of scientific director of the CSCE along with four scientific associates. And beyond the position of scientific director who is unpaid, we do not know the level of remuneration of the rest, as this will eventually be settled by a joint ministerial decision of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Finance. The secondment of staff from public bodies is also allowed, with an obvious difficulty in their integration into the particular mission and mode of operation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Article 2, Scientific Council. If I talked about a clear attempt to cover positions from the "local" for the OSCE, here I will talk about a occult degrading operation of the Special Legal Service. And not only downgrading, but also marginalising and depreciating an agency that has historically contributed to defending our national interests and their legal foundations. At the Scientific Council, the Scientific Director has substantially greater power than the diplomat. Nor do we know in this case the pay level of the seven members and the two rapporteurs. But there are other issues. Universities making up the Scientific Council will also maintain their scientific seat while, apparently, ensuring two wages. Article 3, Office for Legislative Initiatives. The Legislative Initiative Offices for all ministries are provided for by Law 4048/2012. However, if I'm not mistaken, the only ministry that has adopted it is the Department of Defense. In fact, the Department of Defense has not hired anyone, it has used the already existing ones. So why is it that a ministry whose legislative initiatives are limited and exhausted, I would say, in sanctions for international agreements and treaties, needs a Legislative Initiative Office and it is a major and urgent matter? And why don't you handle it from the guilt? Also, why is staffing foreseen by legal advisers only? As far as the consequences are concerned, as you say, which will have a legacy, it should possibly include other possibilities such as economists. But the substance remains in the question: why does a ministry which does not legislate need extra legal and, indeed, a Ministry which already has a Legal Service? Article 4 deals with the regulation of specific issues, the management of secret funds. I agree, sign up, agree and sign that ensuring transparency is a major issue for a democratic country. No one can argue with that. However, I also think it is important, Mr Minister, to say this because you are aware of the particularities and sensitivities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and you are aware of the specific and sensitivities of the Ministry in question - to avoid leakage or public disclosure of secrets of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because these are issues or related to matters which cannot and must not be known and, if they are, there is a risk of serious damage to our national interests. We therefore believe that the wording of this Article is so unclear that it is neither a guarantee nor a guarantee of transparency nor a lack of leakage. It is a hasty arrangement and it would be a good one, because it is just so delicate and it relates to two basic principles, transparency, but also to the lack of information, which must not be leaked, to have had an extensive debate. Perhaps we should have seen what happens to other European countries, how they manage this particular issue, which is of the delicateness and seriousness with which we agree. We, in wanting to contribute to this debate, have formulated, for example, an idea, that there should be a committee that could ensure transparency and at the same time prevent any risk of leakage. We could, for example, - and it is an idea - consider the setting up of a three-member committee, composed of representatives of the three powers, for example, the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs from the executive, a senior judicial officer from the judiciary and the President of the Parliament from legislative power, and this three-member committee should be able to know the secrets. It's a thought. It is not a proposal, but it shows the way in which and towards which we could move, ensuring transparency and non-proliferation of information, which must not be made public. I have nothing to say about the retirement age limit for senior consular authorities. It is not a very important regulation. As regards Article 6 and the analogous application of the Law. We do not have anything special to observe either. However, in Article 7, which deals with the awarding of the grade at price, we have to say this very simple: the dispersion of this grade, that of the individual, at the price, actually cancels his gravity. I understand that we still have to honour a particular sector. But if it is given there, there is a reasonable question for other sectors: "Why not both economic and commercial followers" etc.Huh? So let everyone get a diplomatic passport. Is that what this is about, though? As far as construction costs are concerned, you have withdrawn the original provisions and did well because they were problematic. I hope that these provisions and regulations will be brought, when we finally see the whole of your thoughts, the whole of your philosophy and your direction of how the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should operate, a modern foreign ministry with a new organization, although this 'track-down' of the foreign agencies does not seem to me to be helping it and it has not resulted in something really shallow and truly modern. Age limits: An increase in age limits for recruitment is indeed a Community obligation. However, the proposed change in the retirement age limits is crucially affected by this constitutional requirement of equality. In particular, Law No.4336/2015, the so-called ‘third Memorandum’, provides in Article 1 for the completion of the sixty-seventh year of age as the decommissioning limit and the start of retirement. This plan, which we are discussing today, provides that the retirement of diplomatic officials, like experts and officials in the economic and commercial affairs sector, will be completed by the sixty-fifth year of their age if they have completed thirty-five years of service. This provision is contrary to the constitutional requirement on the equality of Greeks, because it cannot be assumed that the branches of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are subject to the heavy and unhealthy professions and therefore a regulation is needed to retire earlier. So why not all of us at sixty-seven? This regulation is contrary to the provisions of the Constitution and creates inequality, injustices and bitterness among officials in public administration. In addition, for officials in the administrative, administrative, secretarial, communications and computer sectors, provision should be made for retroactive provisions in Article 9c to cover officials who have been reinstated on the basis of the now repealed provisions of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and Article 59 of Law No.4369/2016, which already applies to all civil and administrative officials, should apply. That is to say, a sixty-seventh-seventh-seventh-year-old retirement and the abolition of thirty-five years. Article 9(7)c must therefore have retroactive effect, at least as from 30 December 2015. In the case of the remuneration of posted - migrant employees referred to in Article 10, this is a provision which burdens the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' budget, as the funds are not provided for by the services provided by posted employees, but come from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget. For the Diplomatic Academy, the arrangements made to add other languages in principle are not wrong. But other languages, important for the foreign policy of the country, such as Albanian, Serbian, Bulgarian and Turkish, could be added to the same logic. Because it is important to know such languages. Since we have opened up the question that basic language is English, but also some others, perhaps we should have seen that too. Statistical Office: There the establishment of an autonomous Statistical Office at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not help the uniform statistical services in the country. At the same time, it makes it difficult to access statistics. Moreover, what are the criteria of his staffing? Why, then, a Statistics Office at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and, in such a rough way? In order not to get far, I will go to another matter that is serious, the abolition of the Hellenic Centre for European Studies. This is a question which, if it were to, is rightly settled. However, I repeat the request for the payment of the seven members of the EMRP who have been unpaid for many years. For the consular receipts under Article 16, it is an indirect, but also a clear confession of failing to implement the Ministry's budget. In the case of movements outside the headquarters of the Ministry's staff, the retroactiveness foreseen allows for the eighty-day limit to be exceeded. Overall and in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is a stirring-up of provisions, without a central philosophy, without internal cohesion. As I have said, it is a 'donation' of the organization which should be discussed in depth and voted on as a whole. And since there is, in fact, no principle in this piece of legislation, we are voting against it at first, but, as has been demonstrated by what I have said on the articles, we are also voting against it in his articles. Minister, the sooner the National Representation, after a serious and thorough debate, results in voting for a body of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs which will make it more modern, more efficient, more flexible, adapted to the needs of foreign policy in this demanding era, the better. Let us abandon the fragmentary arrangements that also have a smell of haste to be covered, to discuss with the necessary seriousness how the country's foreign policy must be shaped in difficult times. This would be a real contribution in times of difficulty and hours of demand. But what you are bringing today does not serve this need. I suggest it to you in committee, I suggest it and now: Since, as you say, there is nothing hasty, to withdraw this bill, which is an emblematic sum of provisions and bring it along with the organization to discuss it as a whole, to see its philosophy, to see the beginning and the end of it and to see what exactly you are trying to do with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u10	The rapporteur for the Golden Dawn, Mr Christos Pappas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. I shall begin by referring not only to the gloomy atmosphere of today, but also to the grim political reality of the International Monetary Fund. You people of the SYRIZA were waiting for the International Monetary Fund report and in a way, you were coming to stand up against an alleged controversy with him. Finally, the report came and was published. It is a slap towards the Memorandum Symbols, but also towards the Memorandum Neo-Democrats. In the report the Fund is in line with the Greek proposals, only that the debt is characterised as unsustainable and expresses the need for restructuring. But at what cost will this proposal from the International Monetary Fund be offered, this restructuring? The proposal - here I am told - involves extending the tax base. These and the others, who are in alliance with them, are the true tax dictators of the Greek people, are the ones who have imposed the seven-year-old unhappiness on the Greek people, the European Union together with its Bank and the International Monetary Fund, with which you are drafting it. It is worth noting that this report also refers to red loans and, together with the reduction in all pensions, calls for all the restrictions already in existence for some red loans and for some of our fellow citizens to be lifted. All this was done without the United States Treasury still serving with the new political reality in the country, i.e. with the people of Trump governance. Therefore, developments on this issue will probably be rapid but also unforeseen. You have to understand, ladies and gentlemen, the right and the left, that the only path of compliance is that with the memorandums we cannot comply. The memorials lead to measures of billions, to unbearable measures. In fact, a new terrorism is being created. They are unbearable measures for the Greek people, create additional poverty and hunger and the only way out is through the Golden Dawn, which is the return to the production process, from which you are prevented by the lenders and the rulers of the memorandum. It is clear, therefore, that the impasse to which the post-political political reality of the memorandum is currently at the moment lies. In these policies that will come, you are a brutal internal devaluation which will not have any impact, some essential meaning. The only benefits will be the banks and the only way out, so that there can be real hope for the Greek people and not the fruitful hopes that you have said beforehand and fooled your voters, the only policy that will bring hope to the Greek people is the policy of Golden Dawn, which means a break with international loan sharks and a development policy. As far as the Foreign Ministry's draft law we are discussing today on amending the Code of the Ministry's Statute and other provisions is concerned, I would say that this text type of legislation, even though it is being implemented in the field of foreign policy, could provide a technical basis, because, firstly, there is no political will, secondly, the bill is unrealistic and has no direction. In short, it simply continues the existing structure by minor interventions. You're the continuity of the state. You all say the state keeps going. You're Samara's follow-up. So the management logic of this bill shows the real government's attitude towards our foreign policy. The left was supposed to change the systemic logic of the old parties across the range of governance. You guys have done nothing but that. Manolius changed and put on his clothes differently. The interventions of the bill at institutional level are nonexistent. They cannot be regarded as interventions and changes to the arrangements existing in certain organizations or centres supervised by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In all cases, the logic is that, for good reasons, the reduction of expenditure is not projected, but that they should be increased by methods and procedures - I said so at the outset - by appointments of new officials. In other words, you, too, create a ruthless party state across the entire public sector and why not - we see it with today's bill - in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I'm going to stand up for some articles in the bill. In Article 1, in the explanatory memorandum, the Scientific Centre for Analysis and Planning, the CSR is referred to as an institution with little intervention and reduced value, although ‘it is concluded that the Centre was unable to operate in accordance with the original purpose as a research study body’. Therefore, instead of abolishing it, since you write them, you are creating at best in the case of a Master Advisory Committee on Personalities to assist the respective political leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Instead, for good reasons, it remains in operation by secondment of officials and other public sector services to the centre of analysis, which you would be abrogated. Positions, directors, regular scientific associates for three years, money, new appointments of SYRIZA, the party state of SYRIZA! Of course I won't tell you what we're going to vote on. Of course in these things the Golden Dawn stands opposite and votes 'no'. As regards Article 2, the Scientific Council shall be composed of university professors specializing in international law. This could be an advisory body for legal matters at international and European level, having been given an opinion on the preparation of a strategy for addressing structural problems and issues, that is, actions which could be taken without a problem by the previous institution that you are absolved. As is clear from the explanatory statement, instead of limiting expenditure - this is the result of the report by the General Accounting Office of the State - the very opposite is the case, i.e. they are expected to show expenditure when a joint ministerial decision is made. Of course not. In Article 3, for the sake of a brief speech, we say 'no'. In the articles, our Parliamentary spokesman will also be mentioned in detail in his speech. I come to the scandalous article 4, where you are scratching old sins of post-political Greece, which are the secret funds of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. You are now establishing, for my part, a strengthening of transparency in the implementation of expenditure on confidentiality, allegedly, national purposes. The secret funds, therefore, have been a timeless source of scandals, a source of black money, opacity, from the beginning of post-population, from 1974 until today. We cannot forget the punctual memory - God squeeze - Antonis Samaras and the history he had written, when as Minister of Foreign Affairs he was involved in a case with a thorn smell, which was forgotten by both judicial authority and by Ice Arrows and by journalists. How can it not be forgotten, especially by journalists? At that time, journalist lists - and not just - were paid back - had been released from the secret funds of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So you are now saying that you have a limit and say that when it is over fifty thousand, it should be recorded, that is to say, that it should be kept - of course - in the secrets of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - some elements, some documents, over fifty thousand. And who guarantees us that you won't cut the fifty in twenty-five or forty-nine thousand nine hundred to do the work that all the previous ones have done to this day? So, in order to ensure this, because you will continue to have this black hole, the black scandal, the black money of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Golden Dawn proposes that all the costs should bear the Minister's personal signature. Finally, let the ministers assume their responsibilities. Do not hide behind the irresponsible, this scandal of the Law on the Responsibility of Ministers. The last civil servant cannot be indicted for violations he has committed, whether in his service or in the criminal code, and the ministers may be unavoidable, for you alone have voted for and created them! Put your signature on. Have the courage to sign in all the documents of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in all the expenses for the secret funds. Keep this in record and, as the previous speaker said, for a committee of the President of Parliament of any person of the judiciary and of a representative - he said the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - of the executive, that is to say, the three powers in parliamentaryism, which we allegedly have in Greece, the secrets of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So these documents also have to be kept and put to the attention of this committee so that, if they have been smuggled, if they have been smuggled - because these things are done - they can also be controlled by the signatories. Transparency, then. Transparency that doesn't exist. And with this article, with Article 4, no more than opaque entry into the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In Articles 5 to 11, our parliamentary representative will also be mentioned in detail. They're indifferent articles. In Article 12, a statistical office is set up as an independent organic unit of the Ministry, which will in fact be directly owned by the Minister. So, since the Minister and the government are directly involved, that is, all of this shows and photographs the government's targeting, that is, the creation of a party state. You'll have the evidence and free anytime you want. You have, therefore, also created a party army with appointments of two-ways to each company, even with no more time-limits than in other times, without any political competence, without any object of work, sitting in chairs or missing without any special reason and bypassing all the provisions in force on appointments. In Articles 14 to 18, our parliamentary representative will be mentioned. Of all the things I have pointed out to you, it follows that the Golden Dawn says 'no', it is again contrary to the attitude of your so-called left-wing government and is reserved for the vote to be placed in each article separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u12	Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, rapporteur for the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR, is in Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: 'Amendment to the Code of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other provisions'. Over the last few days, but also recently, the main argument of SYRIZA for the negotiation has been that we have to close the whole process, because we have to go straight to quantitative relaxation. And today, Mr. Vernardakis, as Prime Minister, in Zurari, "who lives in 2019," says that the world is not lost if we do not enter quantitative relaxation. I wonder, ladies and gentlemen: is the world finally lost or not? Finally, you will vote for everything without quantitative relaxation, without anything, because you must remain in your positions. And I'm not talking about everybody, it would be unfair. I'd be unfair if I said it for all the MPs, but it's for the whole lead group, it's for Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Kammenos and the whole SYRIZA team. And I ask you, what do you say about it? Is there no matter? Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, you will vote for everything without a word. The priority in the negotiation, when the government goes abroad, is one, so it always wins the negotiation: that the mandate of Mr Tsipras and Mr Kammenos be turned back and that we should be in power. And they really come back, they sign everything, and you remain in power. That's why you're always won. But there is a moral issue for you. Is quantitative relaxation of value or not? Ladies and gentlemen, since the first day, when the bill was put in consultation, the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR with press releases said that this bill, which comes quickly, while the Minister himself has set up a working group to implement the new organization of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is just for a few more appointments, in particular, in the CS, in Article 1, and in the establishment of the Scientific Council. And it comes here, Minister, as regards the recommendation of the Scientific Council, the Scientific Service of the Parliament in the Report on the bill - it is not our Parliament - and writes: "In the light of the above considerations, it is a question of its constitutionality, by virtue of Article 2(4) of the draft law, provided for in another..." - that is, to you, because you will vote to go only to the Minister - "In addition to the President of the Republic, an institution of the Administration to regulate the internal organisation and functioning of the Scientific Council, which cannot be classified as detailed, in particular or technical, see decisions of the CoR, etc.." How about this? In Article 2(4), I would again remind you of what it says: 'A decision of the Minister for Foreign Affairs may deal with matters of the internal organization and functioning of the Scientific Council'. Is there a matter? There's no such thing as that! But now let's go see what you're doing. It's important. This bill has fifteen articles, five pages, but the appointments of several, some fifteen, I would say. Recommendation of a Scientific Council to give an opinion on questions of a legal nature. It will be made up of teachers, rapporteurs, may also be doctoral holders. We're talking about a dozen places. Rename of the Scientific Centre for the Analysis and Planning of the EKT in a CSCE Analysis and Planning Centre. Strengthen the role of appointing - directly by the Minister - four regular scientific associates. They changed it until his term. The possibility is, of course, for fixed-term contracts, for specific studies, opinions and thirty-thirty-three thousand. Count: 10 and thirteen, with conventions, 20. Establishment of a Legislative Initiative Office. Four legal advisers were hired a job. Again appointed by the Minister. We have said something, Mr President, and colleagues. We understand that there may be deficiencies in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and in three or four months' time you will bring the new agency. Why don't these procedures be done via ASP? Let's all say that these procedures are going to be done through ASA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u14	They're not employees.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u15	I don't understand, Minister, because legal advisers can't be employees. You as Minister, like all the ministers, have scientific partners, poster, seconded and very well done. We're talking about extra people here. Is that what we can't put them through APA and call lawyers, who will be serving the Agency? Do you disagree with any of these, ladies and gentlemen of the majority? The agencies, who raised too many issues, have come. One of the themes is related to their statistical development. These issues the Minister said he would solve when the new organization of the Ministry comes. Let us now go a little bit on articles. We, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, said 'no' at first. We shall, however, vote on articles dealing, for example, with the regulation of specific expenditure. In our view, although this way of legislating can create some problems, we think it is a positive step. That is why we will vote for it and we hope in time that it will prove to be helpful in transparency and in the non-publishment of data. We will support several of the articles, such as the regulation of specific expenditure issues, the proportionate application of Law 3074/2002, the award of a degree of honor, the Diplomatic Academy, the article concerning the proxy of the Hellenic Republic before international bodies, the abolition of the Hellenic Centre for European Studies and the moves of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We want to believe, Minister, that even today, you will withdraw the provisions with which you are appointed additional consultants and bring it through APA so that we can, in a transparent manner, all support this draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u16	Mr Stavros Tassos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. As stated in the title of the bill, the main provisions of this bill relate to an amendment of the organization of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which had been adopted in 2007. We had voted against the agency, which was supposed to organise the ministry's services better for the most effective foreign policy exercise, putting the question of what foreign policy is going on. So we ask the same question now: what is it about foreign policy? The answer to us is obvious: Foreign policy that serves the interests of the Greek bourgeoisie. And that is what all parties who believe that the wealth is produced by entrepreneurs and not by workers when it comes to national interests. In fact, they refer to the interests of the Greek bourgeoisie, which are confused and equitable with national interests, i.e. the people's interests, the workers and the public. These interests serve our foreign policy, when the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs go and visit foreign countries and take business with them. These interests are served by the Prime Minister's visit to "L'OREAL" and "ROTHSCHILD". These interests are served by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Service. And when the relevant debate was held with the institutions, I wondered where the Agency is representing the interests of the workers. There isn't, of course. Not that if there were, it would change anything about the substance, but in any case it does not even exist in name. These interests are served when making various axes with spaces such as Cyprus, Israel, and Egypt. And, of course, these axes do not concern the people of these regions. It concerns the urban ranks of these regions and their own particular interests. This policy is served when you call on the US and NATO to make new bases and facilities on Greek territory. This policy of the Greek bourgeoisie serves our ever deeper involvement in imperialist designs and actions, in an area that is in an explosive state where the conflicting interests of the various imperialists are at risk of blowing everything into the air. This policy serves our participation in NATO and the European Union and the direct support of their actions in the region, which, of course, have brought millions of people to leave their countries to escape death and have created all this refugee and immigration current. This policy serves to comply with the European Union's directives, which were accompanied by NATO's invitation to - it is assumed - to prevent refugees, which is illegal under international law and the 1951 Geneva Agreement. In fact, however, it was done to surround Russia, which is currently the main strategic opponent of the European Union and NATO in our region. This policy serves the caging of refugees and immigrants in our country. So that is the policy you serve. Last time the Minister asked a question: "Come now, is the Greek bourgeoisie so strong?" Well, the Greek bourgeoisie, as a whole, has an intermediate place in the international imperialist system with strong, of course, dependence on the US and the European Union. But parts of this Greek bourgeoisie, like shipowners, are at the top of the pyramid. They have therefore been seconded - among other things - and fifty-six tax exemptions, which bring them every year around EUR 10 billion. For profits, then, over 1,640 000 a shipowner paid a tax of 12,000 euros. Why? Because it is known that taxation is done with tone. And such a tax pays an average worker. These interests are served by the Greek foreign policy, and this is the Greek bourgeoisie, which is not at all a carpazospracter - as some people want to present - and a poor relative. We have said in its entirety an interim position. And there are parts of it that throw candy to others and too many candy to the Greek people and workers. This draft law, therefore, comes to amend, in order to serve this perspective better, certain provisions which, in fact, do not change the important thing. Articles 1, 2 and 3 amend provisions concerning the Scientific Analysis and Planning Centre, the CSR. You seem to have a more general disobedience to CSCE and where you can, remove it, where you can, change his name. This is where the C.E.S.S.A. is doing it. Manolius changed and put on his clothes differently. It is essentially the same House, which is, of course, the main think tank of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which aims to link the investment infrastructure to the relevant diplomatic service and to contribute to the sector of the recommendations on the country's foreign policy guidelines and its implementation strategy. What we've been talking about before. It is estimated that this could not function as such - the previous one, the EASA - and that is why the changes mentioned are being promoted on the grounds that planning foreign policy is a high aim for the present political leadership and the government in the context of its mission. The country needs to constantly have clear guidelines and be integrated into the great picture of modern international policy, as well as have positions on the major international problems beyond what the country's participation in international organisations or traditional alliances or only addressing diverse issues with neighbouring countries. These concern Articles 1, 2 and 3 to which we are voting 'at present'. In Article 4, which deals with secret expenditure, because it is maintained, we are voting 'in anticipation'. In Article 5, which restores the age limit of seventy years, we shall exceptionally vote'residents'. In Article 6, which concerns the analogous application of the law of the State's Legal Representation to officials at the Legal Council of State, we are voting 'yes'. In Article 7, which extends to the sector of conservation experts, it is indifferent now whether it will have a degree of importance, to vote'residents'. For the transport of the building, we vote 'yes'. For the abolition of the ceiling on recruitment, we are voting 'at present'. For the foreign service allowance and travel expenses arising from the secondment of police personnel to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we vote ‘yes’. In Article 11, we are voting 'yes'. In Rule 12, we are voting 'at present'. In Article 13, we are voting 'the present'. In Article 14, we are voting 'present', which is the EMRP, and of course we are asking for workers working there to be paid. We are voting 'at present' in Articles 15, 16, 17 and 18. We are voting 'according to Article 19'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u18	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-three students and students and three educational attendants from the Lower Achaea High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Saridis, rapporteur of the Centroon Union, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this morning I had the opportunity as a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and National Defence to address the students of the National Defence School. My suggestion was made on a key point, which I consider absolutely appropriate to repeat here too, as it is my guide to how the legislative initiatives of the Greek Government should be taken on national defence and foreign affairs issues. It is my firm belief that if Turkey could disappear Greece, it would do so tomorrow morning without a second thought. But it can't be. And it can't be, because the Greek diplomats and the Greek Armed Forces don't allow it. All of us who have the responsibility and have the honour of worrying about our neighbours' aggressive behaviour have to wonder and answer every day from now on: What prevents the Turks from disappearing Greece and how am I strengthening this? With these thoughts within my mind and consciously opting to respond positively to any legislative initiative that comes to Parliament from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I have also dealt with this draft law. In the course of the work of the committee, I was put positively into most of the provisions of the bill, as has already been recorded. However, a number of points which have been afflicted with me are clearly and I shall refer particularly to them, hoping that even at the last moment, Mr Kotzias, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will make some improvements which are deemed necessary. First of all, there is a very serious issue with Article 14 concerning the honour and dignity of the Ministry itself. The people of the EMCDDA, the Greek Centre for European Studies, who have been unpaid since 2012 and now see the end of the EMCDDA, without paying attention to what we owe them, are waiting today for an answer, a proof that we do not deceive them. It is not right what is happening and we all recognise that. I would therefore urge the Minister to add a special reference to the relevant provisions in order to initiate the repayment of the employees of the people who worked in a very sensitive sector with a very important object. It is a matter of honour and moral order that this matter be solved in a definitive and clear way, which unjustly and beyond all concepts of law is suffering decent and friendly people. It is one of the issues that we expect the Minister to show the necessary sensitivity in the name of the law and of the understanding, but also of the consensus. Another very important issue arising from this legislation, and in particular from the provisions of Article 9, is the fact that some workers - few in the number - have the right to say that the choice of the time of legislation deprives them of their rights to work. These are people who have offered and still have to offer because of their valuable experience and the learners in their field of knowledge. We must therefore review these cases - as I have asked for in committee - and we must add a transitional provision which prevents this development, that is, for a month or two people from being forced to retire. I would like to hear your position on this matter, Minister. We consider this to be particularly important. Also, very serious consideration and excellent attention is needed, in my opinion, also the provision on the secret funds referred to in Article 4. As a parliamentary party, we have always been in favour of transparency. Public accountability is the cornerstone of democracy for us. However, one would expect us to insist on transparency and publicity of all the other facts of the government, except those which all Greeks understand should remain secret. The secret funds are thus called for a specific reason. The House is always aware of this. We will insist, however, on more guarantees that human lives will not be endangered. The secret funds are secret, and they must be secret, because otherwise people are in danger of losing their lives. I was pleased to hear about the improvements the Minister brought. I agree that it is right that these documents should not remain in Parliament and that they should be returned on the day after day to guard the Ministry's services. As also, it is wise and reasonable not to reproduce these documents for any reason. History has shown that the ability of proper management of sensitive information often judges the fate of nations and determines the fate of peoples. Ladies and gentlemen, in commenting on the individual articles, I am compelled to distinguish them in two categories: those which have just come before the conclusion of the consultation and work of the relevant committee on the amendment of the organization of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, such as Article 9, which is our obligation, as we have to apply the relevant judicial decisions, we must harmonise ourselves with European legislation - Article 78/2000 - by abolishing the upper age limit for recruitment to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and those which raise questions, as they do not justify the identification of urgency, such as Article 15, which is the possibility of university teachers participating in the CST, but also the Scientific Council, to maintain their position in academic institutions at the same time. All objective observers are given the right to speak of favorableness and double-depositors. As a Union of Centres, we do not have the right to derogate from our principles, which lead us to vote against this article, Article 15. Considering the draft legislation under discussion - pursuant to Rule - I would like to point out the following: In Article 1, the Minister takes a decision, which is indeed a right, and we recognise it. The CSCE, responsible for drawing up useful studies, must support the crucial work of the Minister. From the result this option will be judged and the re-establishment of the Scientific Council is an initiative of the Minister and it is also his responsibility to ensure that the money that this crucial advisory body costs will not go missing, but will strengthen Greek diplomacy and effective foreign policy. The Legislative Initiative Office set up in Article 3 has troubled us, as the legislative work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is mainly sanctions for international agreements and protocols of cooperation and consultation. Perhaps with the functioning of this Office, it will put an end to the bad practice of penetrating unrelated amendments to international conventions. I move on to Article 6 and the right provision for extending the coverage of the officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs by the Legal Council of State. It is true that many times in the performance of their duties, the officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are subject to legal persecution. It is therefore an obligation for the State to protect them and we are right to move on to this extension. Article 7 belongs to the category of articles that we do not understand why they are presented as urgent, but we do not disagree with maintaining the degree of Expert Counsellor I on a price after retirement, even though they do not complete the thirty-five years. Articles 8 and 10 solve staff problems, which can only be described as unacceptable. People who with self-depression and very difficult conditions serve in 'hot' areas, if they had to leave the country they are serving, were likely to lose their ecosystem not because of the conditions, but mainly because of bureaucracy. That stops with Article 8. In the right direction is Article 10, because according to this the police officers necessary to safeguard our diplomatic missions will receive their foreign allowance and travel expenses in good time. It does not stand forth here, as it goes without saying that these needs must be met by the state. Article 11 adds other foreign languages than French for the admission of applicants to the Diplomatic Academy. That's right, too. We'll support her. Article 12 is one of those that meet true needs and fulfil the government's proper obligations. The establishment and operation of the statistical office is accepted by everyone that it is necessary. We also note Mr Marda's point that there will be no need for new recruitment here. And I come to Article 13, which strengthens Greece's effective representation in all international courts. That's enough for us to support it. It is known that the ambiguity created, as a consequence of Law 4110/2013, created problems and compromised Greek claims. Article 16, which states that 30% of our embassies will go directly to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget, and Article 17, which states that we are going to adjust the time limits of the outward movement of officials from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is necessary and will practically enhance the effectiveness of the exercise of the diplomatic function. It also extends to members of the political offices. Ladies and gentlemen, I am closing my introduction to the bill by reminding everyone that national defence and foreign policy do not have microparticipatory practices. These are two areas which do not allow barren controversy. That doesn't mean we're gonna offer a white check. It simply means that we look at these legislations and know that they require special treatment. We hope that Mr Kotzias will take advantage of the confidence and support that we give him in this bill, because we believe it is his obligation. I should like to close by making a comment, if you allow me, on the timeliness and on the fact that the International Monetary Fund has decided that the Greek debt is extremely unsustainable. So the question of the Greek people has been solved. No more ambiguity! You know, if the SYRIZA Government taught us something, that was how dangerous rigour is in terms of an agreement and even a loan agreement. Creative ambiguity and all sorts of ambiguity lead to all kinds of dead ends and problems. A characteristic example and firm evidence is the fact that while in the summer of 2015 the political parties co-signed the third memorandum and had signed the same paper, they continue to pretend the rebels and that there is room, not for corrections, not for improvements, not for reliefs, but for overthrows. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has no proposals. The government in finance doesn't have a plan. It follows the tactics "seeing and doing". Except that we use this tactic when we go on a trip, not when we rule a country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, too. Mr Katsikis, rapporteur for the Independent Greeks, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I will stay on the subject for which the plenary session was intended, without going away from it, by referring to what Tsipras, Kammenos, Simmenis and possibly other political leaders have done in the past, and I am also obliged today to present our opinion and position as rapporteur for the Independent Greeks. The draft law under discussion is the beginning of a broader institutional reform plan of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which seeks to solve years of problems. The aim of this bill is, inter alia, to fill gaps in the institutional structure of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which make it difficult to develop, design and pursue foreign policy. This is why it promotes the re-establishment of two main bodies, the Centre for Analysis and Design and the Scientific Council, and the Hellenic Centre for European Studies is abolished. The draft law under way consists of seventeen articles, which I shall begin to analyse: The first article concerns the organisation and operation of the Scientific Centre for Analysis and Design, which has been in force since 1998 by organic law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as a Centre for Analysis and Planning. This centre will make scientific preparation for foreign policy and will deal with anything that has to do with it. The lack of scientific staff at the existing Scientific Analysis Centre, capable of drawing up recommendations, planning and strategy for the implementation of the country's foreign policy, made the Centre a marginal function, commissioned the development of studies at other research centres. However, the reduced useful value of these studies has rendered them untapped by the diplomatic service. It is, therefore, commonly accepted that the centre was unable to operate according to the original purpose of its establishment, i.e. as a research study centre. The second article provides for the reconstitution of the Scientific Council, an advisory body for international and European law matters of major importance. His recommendation and only by professors of unknown university authority specialising in international, European or public law, as well as by the scientific director of the CDE, provides guarantees of scientific integrity. This is indeed an innovative project, the success of which will shield the country in matters of strategy for the legal treatment of issues of major national importance. Article 3 establishes a legislative initiative office, directly under the Minister for Foreign Affairs, whose establishment is an obligation of the Ministry, resulting from the provisions of Law 4048/2012. This article provides for both the powers and the administration of the office with legal persons specialising in public law. Article 4 of this Regulation establishes a strengthening of transparency in the implementation of expenditure for confidential national purposes. The role of the House is for the first time essential in managing the confidential funds and, above all, in examining the reasons and purposes for which they are made available. In order to ensure transparency, it is proposed that the records of the revenues of more than EUR 25 000 be sent to the House with an accompanying report. Article 7 provides for the maintenance of the degree of expert opinion of Adviser I to be given to the outgoing experts. Minister, with this amending provision on the organic law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - L.3566/2007 - and the legislative improvements that have just been given to us, the necessary equality is restored to the other branches of the diplomatic service. Article 8 provides for the possibility of transferring part or all of the construction of a staff member serving in areas that manifest themselves in war or political events, as well as theories, regardless of the time of his transfer and at the discretion of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. In accordance with Article 9, the Agency of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs shall be harmonized with European directives amending its articles by abolishing the maximum age of recruitment, unless required by the nature and specificities of the posts to be filled. I would also like to return to plenary, Mr Minister, on the point I raised during the discussions in committee and for which I have not yet received an answer. The question concerns the specific arrangement whereby the administrations of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will be automatically fired by the agency after the completion of the 60th year of their age. However, until 31 December 2016, those officials were made redundant with the completion of the 60th year of their age and thirty-five years of actual service. This results in unequal treatment for those who until then were retired in relation to those who will complete in 2017 in the sixtyth year, since they are given the opportunity to remain until sixty-seven, while the former have lost it. I therefore believe that, for reasons of equality, this arrangement should be given the possibility of retroactive effect of the law. Article 10 makes it possible to pay and entrust travel expenses, as well as the foreign service allowance of seconded police officers serving with the Foreign Office authorities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as security personnel. Under Article 12, a statistical office is established as an independent body of the Ministry, which is directly owned by the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Let us stress at this point that the establishment of the new service does not entail any recruitment, since it will be carried out with officials from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Article 13 provides for the cooperation of the Legal Council of the State on several questions for preliminary rulings addressed to the institutions of the European Union. With Article 14, the Hellenic Centre for European Studies, which has been inactive since 2012, is abolished. The abolition of the EMRP means the abolition of the twenty-three posts provided for in the law governing its operation. This is a decision that is deemed appropriate in the context of the resolution of public administration and the reduction of expenditure. In Article 15, and in the light of the reconstitution by this Law of the Scientific Council, as well as the Scientific Director and the Scientific Coopers of the Centre for Analysis and Design, a provision is laid down for university teachers who will be designated in the above positions and bodies of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to serve in their foundations as full-time teachers. Article 16 provides for the registration and transfer to the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of 30% of the revenues of the foreign authorities. This percentage will be transferred to the Ministry's specific codes to cover exceptional needs, in particular for travel costs, fees for natural and legal persons, as well as logistical infrastructure. Finally, Article 17 provides for an adjustment of travel days outside the home because there are many needs to be travels to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In conclusion, the Independent Greeks are voting in favour of this bill, which is expected to help significantly in the reforms attempted by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in the development, design and exercise of foreign policy. We are therefore voting in favour of this draft law, both at the outset and on the articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, too. Mr Spyridon Dannelis, rapporteur for the river, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today a bill from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, a ministry whose legislation is not available for an unadulterated micro-party settlement. After all, we are at a time when the country is in the eye of the cyclone, given the conditions prevailing both on the planet and in our wider and closer neighborhood. Although in the modern post-retirement period of globalisation, most of the international organisations have been created, although international law and human rights have been guaranteed in a large part of the world and despite the relatively peaceful seventy-year period since 1945, state security is still not taking a safe linear course. After 11 September, a large number of factors in the internal, transnational and international environments of each country create complexity and a sense of insecurity. It is precisely because of this complex and multi-level international scene that the state's debt is emerging, each state should study, consider, set priorities, evaluate, reverse and adjust policy in view of international transnational or internal challenges in a specific space and time. For our country, the situation is quite well known. The civil war in Syria, the outbreaks of war in Iraq and Central Asia, as well as the widespread refugee flows as a result of them, are particularly critical to our east. We are also aware of the constant challenges of a relatively weakened, but equally or more than ever dangerous Turkey, which is constantly destabilising and threatening us both militaryly, as well as the threatened opening up of the refugee flows, the open and chronic issues of the Cyprus issue, but also in our west, the triumphs of the European construction, especially after Brexit, and the rise of the extreme right-wing parties, always in the light of the upcoming elections in large countries of the European Union. Finally, our reduced credibility once again manifests itself with the inability to close the famous second assessment, once again opening the debate on a possible Grexit. All these are reasons why we are forced to seek ways of understanding, leaving pre-emptions, extremism and unnecessary classification on the part of one side. In this context, I would remind you once again that our movement, Potami, has proposed the need to create a national security council, and this is why it has also tabled a comprehensive proposal for a law which is unfortunately pending. Greece is presented with the undeniable need for a new approach to national coordination, with the practical design of possible and practicable actions, so that the country is prepared for any serious step and any possibility. Besides, we won't be the only ones. Many western countries have adopted a number of different forms for the adoption of a Council on their national security. This idea responds to the creation of the National Security Council, based on conditions of sobering, feeling and knowledge of international law, strategy and diplomacy, so that it can give its opinion on national issues by a vast majority of democratic parties and avoid occasionally facing the challenges. This is an instrument which will express a political structure which allows a common place and indivisible way of thinking and cooperation on foreign and security policy, which will of course assist the responsible government. It will be subject to regular parliamentary scrutiny and will inform the national parliament, in the sense of the performance of the speech to the people. I now come to the draft legislation, which evades the established moratoriums of understanding, which we have certainly become accustomed to in terms of the legislative work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This is a bill that has been coming to deal with mainly organisational issues and has been trying to correct distortions that employ structures and staff of this ministry for years. We have already expressed our view from the stage of the debate in committee that we would expect an integrated proposal to change the operating regulation, which is at a final stage of processing than we know, and not a partial amendment to some of the provisions, which, of course - most of which we have no objection - should be modernised and restructured. Although we understand this need and the urgency for some of these arrangements, we do not understand why the necessary procedures have not been completed in time so that today we are discussing the comprehensive draft law on the restructuring of the Ministry's agency. One of the main issues raised by the draft legislation, with Articles 1 and 2, is the reconstitution and reorganisation of the Centre for Analysis and Planning and the Scientific Council. The aim of this structure, when it was set up in 1998, was to serve as an independent agency of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which would be responsible for making suggestions, planning and strategy, with a view to helping the country's foreign policy. In 1998, however, which was originally introduced by the CSCE, it was demolished due to a lack of scientific staff in a mere administrative agency. Looking from this perspective at the effort to reorganise and upgrade you are proposing, of course the device is moving in the right direction. However, we do not understand why an independent legislative initiative office is set up under Article 3, which is managed by four legal advisers, whose precise working timetable is not clarified. Of course, it is described as the Minister's support for the Ministry's legislative work. It is not understandable why this number of legal advisers is required, since the Ministry of Finance has some legislative work, most of which relates to the sanctions of the international conventions which have already undergone basic treatment. It is not understandable why we should bear the extra cost - as much as this expenditure is delimited - for the payroll of these four officials, since the Ministry is capable of carrying out a legal service that can meet the requirements of its legislative work. We believe, of course, that Article 4, which deals with Parliament's information threshold for the secret expenses of the Ministry, is clearly moving in the right direction. It is a request for decades, because it strengthens transparency in a sensitive area. It is well-known and absolutely legitimate that the country, through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, supports financially critical institutions of Greek abroad that promote national interests, institutions that support the survival of Greek populations, create good neighbourly communication and relations with other countries and promote the positive image of the country, institutions that aim to serve, directly or indirectly, the foreign policy of the state and which obviously cannot be known without damage to the interests of the country, because it is understandable that the execution of expenditure for secret national purposes or for diplomatic, political, economic and cultural reasons is necessary in a difficult and demanding international landscape. Unfortunately, in previous years, many cases have come to the public for the destruction of these funds in activities that were not in any way serving the interests of the country, but which, on the contrary, covered micro-party and Rusphetological services or thus seemed to be. It is a public debate that certainly does not benefit the country and the functioning of democracy. It is therefore a question of ensuring confidentiality in the management of these funds, but also of transparency and control on the part of the House, but with a methodology that does not create problems in ensuring this confidentiality. Article 7 of the draft law gives the opportunity to award a credit to all civil servants with an ambassador, ambassadors, prosecutors, ministers, I and II, as well as the retired special legal advisers, legal advisers and scientific staff, and the former specialist advisors I of the expert industry. I think that, for reasons of equality, we could consider this possibility for retiring officials in the economic and commercial affairs sector to the extent of a General Adviser I. But more generally, I think that everyone now, the full staff capacity of the Ministry - and I imagine all of us, we are adopting this view - must be guaranteed by a system of crisis and development that is transparent and of merit and which is governed by common rules which are respected by everyone. I also imagine that we agree that the officials in the economic and commercial affairs sector must cease to be treated as poor relatives of the other diplomatic bodies, since in a globalised economic environment their duties are a top-level task, especially for the context in which our country is going. And we should look at the reorganisation and substantial upgrading of the role and work of these offices, even in countries where it is not possible for various reasons to set up an embassy, since our country could conclude at least commercial and economic agreements, extending its interests. At the present stage in our economy, no country is surpassing, and the contingencies of the past would be better to overcome. With regard to Article 9, I will refer again, as in committee, to the issue of a very small number of officials in the Department of Directors of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, about six or seven, the number, forced to retire in the spring of 2016, as they had completed their 60th year of age on 31-12-2015, thus falling within the provisions of Law 4336/2015. This particular remark is, of course, minor for the whole bill, as well as for the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, yet for these people it is a matter of the utmost importance, as it leads them to difficult life options, which were not in their plans. I guess we should see it again. Finally, I come in the case of the Hellenic Centre for European Studies, which is finally abolished after the course under Article 14. It is known that since 2012 the EMCDDA has essentially been an empty shell, as it does not have a single employee, while it continues to break down resources of the Greek State. We, through parliamentary control, had raised this issue and the costs that we could have avoided. In any case, however, it is positive that the public funds are exempted from its operation. It is, however, necessary to close the outstanding debts owed to some of its last members, which is still pending, for reasons of moral order, because the Greek State must be honest with its obligations. You should also, Minister, and I think it is time - as you now have a more comprehensive picture of the processes that you have done and a full view of the legal persons of private and public law supervised by your Ministry - to make a good cleansing, which will be useful and economically and functionally and, of course, morally related to the fact that there are still, unfortunately, a large number of agencies and services, which, while not offering any service, still evacuate public funds. We vote in principle 'yes' in the bill and on the articles your position will shortly follow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, too. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Nicos Kotzias, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. I would like - and I have said this in one of the very rare public interviews I am giving - to thank everyone for all the remarks that are being heard. I believe that all things have the potential to look at them from a different...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u26	Interviews?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u27	I gave an interview to ERT and thanked all those who participated in the debate on this bill. And I said that the majority of those who have been heard, whether or not they are adopted, were positive, in a spirit of understanding on the national needs that this place has. That is how I hear the remarks today. Of course, within these remarks, I do not have any fantasies about photographic provisions. It's not my kind. I can hear, for example, an observation that we want people to get distracted to make ruffles. But I've got ten posted seats, and I've only got two. Two years I haven't put the other eight. I was expecting to make a bill to get posted and do I don't know what, too? They do not keep up with this, and they do not correspond to my policy or my kind of personality. That is why I have not accepted any amendments to the law. I said that the first law I bring as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not require amendments from other ministries, for reasons, in my opinion, of a parliamentary order. I would also like to say first of all about the organisation - and I would like to make it clear again - that this law was made at the end of 2015 to the beginning of 2016. In April 2016, it was published. The organization started then, went up to "GENERAL", you saw it. For various reasons, not related to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, nor to the Government - General Accounting etc. -, there were several issues, every time something else we found out, there were outside powers, and that's why I've been delayed. But that is no reason to withdraw and wait, that is to say, this delay in prolonging it from the Ministry itself. In other words, the organization was a total change. I now want to explain how I see and see these changes in the ministry. We have a question like the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which by its very nature is the internationalised ministry, the public institution of the country: at what time do we live? I think the changes we live are in two directions. One is the international or else often called the world system. It's globalisation and fragmentation. It is a world that is connected and interlinked more and at the same time, parts of it are disconnected. It is a world linked to the digital revolution, but at the same time 95% of the digital revolution is in a hundred cities in the world. It is also a time next to globalisation that the social conditions of politics change and we have major leaps in technology. It is the time when others call it the second era of machines and others call it the fourth industrial revolution. The characteristic of this era, of the second machine or of the fourth industrial revolution is the diffusion of information. It's the reproduction of digital technology through technology itself. Robots make robots. It's the modern, third generation of robotics. It is the time to create networks that evolve in all technologies in a way that largely reminds of the phenomena of biology and physics. We live at a time of major jumps. If you look at globalisation and fragmentation, on the one hand, about social sciences, politics and technology, on the other, about social sciences, but also about natural sciences and the way in which physics, the discoveries, the renewal of natural sciences, comes to a conclusion that we are living at a time of rising the importance of science and society as a whole, as well as for politics. The essence of the urgent changes with which the law started a year and a half ago was precisely to strengthen the science of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and to enable the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to respond to these new phenomena, from science to globalisation. I am amazed to hear people who in this adaptation to cosmohistoric changes see ruptures. That's a great phenomenon. Because it means two things. Apart from the political charge against the government parties and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it means that we are dealing with politicians, with public men, who are generally capable, excellent and very much wanting to have friendly relations with them, but who have not realised that there are changes in the world and that the country's institutional system must change and that a foreign ministry cannot live without scientific staff and correspond to specific types of problems. Also, at a time such as the one we are now living on, while the Foreign Ministry must be firmly committed to its values, the defence of the country, the upgrading of patriots of the country's role in the world and in the European sphere, at the same time, there must be signs in the ministry and all people must do so, all our employees must, but there must be institutional points that can be reconversioned, in the excellent sense, i.e. on the path. And this reflection should enable them to be formulated freely and democratically in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with what is said in the Brainstorming, etc., alternatives. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs must be able to reproduce its thinking and use as far as possible the best scientific weapons available to the country in order to make foreign policy in the era of globalisation, the fourth industrial revolution. And you invite me, some, to resign from these necessities and to do as if there were no changes of this type. Changes we have and we need to discuss society - that is my political view, I am not a political career, but I am a political one of my twelve, thirteen - how do we see the world going? What position do we think the country should have in this world? And what kind of foreign ministry do we want? We are starting this today, a preamble to the major changes that need to be made to the Agency, but which have been made every day for two years in the way we formulate foreign policy. What do we want from the Ministry of Foreign We're preparing a series of laws. I told you in committee too. We have the law on the Institute of Venice, the law on democrat Greekism, the translation, for the long-term organization. We must, however, have criteria. And for me, the criteria are the changes made to the world in these two parallel mechanisms that condensate in a common landscape. But, to be clear, two issues arise: fragmentation in the world causes wars and tensions, which require equipment and require strong defence for a country. Globalisation opens up the horizons and brings states and an international institutional system which requires good knowledge, but also a claim of states, like ours, that what is important is not armed conflicts in the relations between states, but international law. And if we agree on this, then we have to agree that there is a need for a serious scientific training of institutional systems on the Greek territory and, in particular, for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. What does the State Department have to do? To gather the best powers. I hear some people who put me in the dilemma say there's a HS or the HSY or the old one. The European Union is, as you know, dealing with European communities at the time with the European Union today. HSY is engaged in the continuous management of legal issues. However, there are policy issues that want a long strategy on the legal issue. For example, can only the HSM - I tell you all of our diplomats - draw up maps for EEZ? Don't we need experts? Do you want me to tell you the last and the most? Many differences exist on an international horizon around the EEZ are due to the fact that there are states that make measurements on the map of EEZ with vertical ones, while the new method and engines they choose, they recommend, are the legal commitment to the subordinate. Do I now require every employee or me to know all the mathematics of this function? Should we not use scientists who respond to these kinds of skills from the Aquatic Service of the Hellenic Navy, to teachers who have taught them watercolours? Do we not need, in so far as we can, with the possibilities we have, to gather the best powers, in synergy with the services of the Ministry? Because a third phenomenon of modern times is that nothing is produced without synergy. I tell you to read not the heavy science, but the most fascinated book about how Stanford and Silicon Valley set up. How are they set up? With new systems of scientific research, action and even business. What are these new systems? From different branches or intensified knowledge common to groups. And you say to me, 'Oh, don't touch!' Should I go to the International Court of The Hague without together as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs the best teachers, who have the best knowledge of EOZ, on these issues, or who have the greatest experience, or where are the teachers of our services? This is the Scientific Council. And we're talking about seven people who won't be double-depositors. In order to be President of the Scientific Council - which has accepted - Mr Rosakis - to be a double-depositor and take over, I do not know what money! Easy! You underestimate people and underestimate the way the State Department works. The Scientific Council therefore has a different role from the HS. It sets up a legal strategy, participates in the country's legal defence, international courts, and wherever else it is necessary to take long-term legal issues. We're not talking about people's daily work, they're offering. We went to the talks in Switzerland with six legal professors. Wouldn't you? One FIR expert, the other federal international constitution expert, the other international maritime law expert. So you wouldn't take them? And look at them: apart from one, no one is near the government parties from six. These are the best things the country has, this subject and we want to set up the Scientific Council. Does the new agreement on Cyprus not have any issues? Are the attacks by Turkey, that is, within Turkey and in relation to Greek-Turkish positions, the demands on four freedoms in Cyprus, the issues of Turkish 'disciplines' of violation of international law, which the twelve and eighteen drones or islands have done a hundred and you will remember that for ten years now say that even the island of Gadus, inhabited, in the western part of the most southern part of the country, are in their own territorial waters, with these absurdities, will we not defend the country with the best legal head? Now, there is another argument that says: 'You're doing it for the ruffles, you'll get people'. That's for the news releases to play half of them. For we are the positions we are changing are seventy that exist, which we replace with twelve positions. And from half a million to one and a half million euros a year when we wasted it, I am now saying 120,000. And you're growing up. You take 120,000 and you do that. Yeah, but it's 1.5 million replaced, is this a waste? And I'll say again what I told the committee: The 1.5 million, which becomes 120,000, in the first grade to be, you'd know it's not a waste, it's a cost limitation. It's limited and streamlined. And I'll get you another example. The ECHR made a magazine costing the Ministry of Foreign Affairs 150,000 euros a year and no one read it. And we did this magazine electronically. Cost? Zero. Of course, with what I hear, you'll say that 150,000 are less than zero, so zero is the maximum possible mathematical waste. We are therefore cutting costs and rationalizing them. We're limiting positions. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] If I wanted to have positions, why should I make four positions in CSCE and not take the twenty-three seats that the CSCE had and make twenty-three recruitments? I close the CSR with twenty-three seats and put four positions in CSR. And some people tell me it's a waste, that we're making ruffles. I think the students, who are watching us, know that twenty-three are more than four, so four are limited. Welcome, young ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u28	As you mentioned, Minister, let me take a 20-second break, let me say it myself, because they may have to leave the children in a moment. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty-eight students and students and two educational attendants from the 2nd Kiatou Corinth High School. Along with the Minister, and the House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Thank you very much, continue, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u29	Now they tell me what you want with the law office, why are you in a hurry? Look at this amazing picture: no one else has, but the Ministry of Defence, I heard it from this seat here. Well, office has the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of National Defence, the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of Rural Development, the Ministry of Tourism, all made by law of yours, today's Anticulturalism, in 2012. Why does the State Department need it now? I'll tell you. The Department of Foreign Affairs at his F address has a Legal Affairs Sub-delegation. You know he had two people? One has done Commercial Law - as if we are a business store in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - and the other was an administrative official and judged by legislation and legislative cases, and most of all? Contracts and supplies, ladies and gentlemen! And if you could get them to make any mistakes, as happened in the first year, they said to you: "I, Minister, don't know." But putting management in place to see the legislative initiatives of the country and the legal affairs of the Ministry, it is well. Putting legal lawyers is a suspect. And what else does this office have? It has consultative powers, has powers in the public procurement procedure, for the legality of administrative documents. We are often at the Ministry in a situation where no one is sure whether a piece of legislation is properly correct. I also want to say something here - because I am told by other parties and with very good proposals, such as the Central Association and Potami, and I thank them once again, as the National Foreign Policy Council - for those officials, who because the law is to be done in 2017, December 2016, they are losing it. And if we take December 2016, I told the committee what would happen? And with the EMCDDA to remember that the law on two points says that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will assume all the financial requirements that exist against the EMCDDA, including debts. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is taking over and will examine them in accordance with their legal procedure. That is what we agree on. I'm not in agreement with the other one. This bad Greek principle that we receive at the end of 2016 and then in a next bill comes the amendment that says: "But why did you take February 2017 and December 2016 and not take November?" Tell me why I will stop calling December and not November, and why won't I call September and August? These photographic provisions - it is a matter of my personal authority - have no end, colleagues and colleagues. When you open the door that says the law is applied retrospectively, who judges where the retrospective goes and is fair? And why is it fair to take who he was until three months ago? And since I get him, isn't it fair to take the guy who was a month before him? This was how the Greek state was made until today. My opinion is that when we have special laws - if they are general laws, they don't work photographically - and concern four or five people, it goes for photography the thing and from behind another five or ten, who will want their own photo. It can't be done. I am at the outset that the law has to be applied since it is passed. That's the right thing to do. It is a pity that it was not voted two years ago, a pity that it was not voted ten years ago. But that is the right thing to do in my opinion. Now, about the secrets. It's a bold act. I have heard the proposal, which says we should put a judge, the Secretary-General and the President of Parliament. Be careful to see, the Secretary-General - the official, we are not talking about politics, he is the Secretary-General of the Ministry - is the one managing and controlling expenditure on confidentiality. I can't have it to be the one who decides. Secondly, the judge should come to the Ministry. The judges are coming. But the point of the law is not to put a bastard on top of the ministry. If need be, we'll have to put ten. The point of the law is there can be nothing that is secret from the House. There is no political action that can be excluded from the rights of the House. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] As a result, the House must see them. It's not a matter of a court president seeing them. The House must see them. How can he see them? We have reached agreement with the President of Parliament, an excellent MP and a parliamentary man, and we have brought this amendment to an end. That the committee sees it, that she does not share, that she reads it there, that she decides to go back to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the spot. Is the representative of the New Democracy right that we should ensure transparency, but to the representatives of the parties, who I am convinced that the parties responsible will appoint them or propose them for this committee, why should I have less confidence than I have in the administrative staff who see the confidential expenditure? I do not trust the Greek Parliament less than the Greek public. That is our view and this transparency we are discussing. As far as languages are concerned, it is right that we should also have people who know Albanian, Turkish and Chinese. That's why we get experts. For the Chinese, we didn't, unfortunately. The best candidacy didn't make up for thirty-two years. She's a teacher at Beijing University. She teaches at China's foreign policy university. Last we got, if you saw, it was Russian, but they're experts. The diplomat, however, must be of a broader nature, and that is why the languages we have put in are the official languages in the European Union, in the UN and in other international organisations, with which they can move in large regions and in large areas. I want to say another thing because I heard it here and in committee. He says 'is under the Minister for Foreign Affairs'. In the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - and whoever has representations from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs knows that - there are certain institutions that are directly connected to the Minister of Foreign Affairs. For example, the most powerful, who is the third in hierarchy, the diplomat who presides, is the General Inspectorate. It is the Inspectorate-General who controls the legality and the good will of the Directorates-General and the Embassy. And the legislator is wisely making this diplomatic record, etc. He didn't even bother, so let me say, the address check. He put it separately, in the Minister's responsibility. Even the EY is in charge of the Minister. The Minister is headed directly because there is this contradiction. And it's not just like that in Greece. There's no serious foreign ministry that doesn't. They want to take an example of China, Russia or I don't know who else? Do they want to take an example of France or the United States of America? All these institutions - and they exist in all the serious ministries - scientific councils and CSCE are subject to the Minister, because the Minister will give them the instructions and they are subject to consultation with the agency. However, the agency that has to implement a policy cannot be the one to verify whether the OSCE institution produces with adequate alternative policies from which the service itself must choose. I have one last matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u30	And hang up with this. I've let you talk more than five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u31	Yes, Mr. President. A thousand thanks. I'm hanging up with this. I was accused last time of two things in committee. Firstly, for rhysphetological preferences, which I proved with numbers that are not true and secondly, that I set up the law to prosecute some. It was heard by a parliamentary spokesperson - I took the Minutes - that is: "Mr. Kalomomaris, who is not in our own political area, contacted us on the issues relating to the provisions of pensioners of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with the Minister and had raised an issue. Mr. Kolomeris says that the Minister in a conversation with him said that he made this provision to prosecute officials."
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u32	Constantinople.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u33	I didn't say a name. I said: a party representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u34	Because you mentioned Mr. Calomaris.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u35	Mr. Kolomeris is of ADED. That's right, gentlemen. I didn't refer to a face. The Vice-President of ADED is making such a serious complaint and has been asked in the name of this serious complaint to be called upon. I read from the next practice. I was away on a trip this morning. "I have not done anything," says Mr. Kalomiris, "no complaint about the Minister for Foreign Affairs with this content." It is clear that both complaints "fly" and what the law does are to open the door to upgrading and steering the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with stronger institutions, to the major changes that today's world makes, to the changes associated with globalisation, new policy, new technologies, social needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u36	We shall continue as follows: From what Mr Bored told me, it has been agreed that two speakers, colleagues, should speak. The first is Mrs. Alonitou, and then Mr. Tsiaras. Mr. Loverdos will be followed. Then there will be two more colleagues, Mr Panayotarus and Mr Carras. Mr Xydakis will follow and then two other colleagues. We'll go every two. And from what I understand, they have asked that the Parliamentary Representatives speak first and then again about a small word by the rapporteurs. Here, Mrs. Alonitou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u37	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill 'Amendment of the Code of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other provisions', which we are debating today, comes to address some urgent needs of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and they will soon follow wider institutional reforms at the Ministry. So today we are talking here about what they can't really expect. The main thrust of today's bill is to strengthen our foreign policy strategic planning. This is an extremely serious issue, which cannot wait for the broader institutional reform and must now be done. Our wider region is retarded, while some geopolitical data seem to be changing, which we considered to be immobile yesterday. In such an environment, then, it is essential that our country shapes a more comprehensive strategic picture and not to improvise from day to day, based on how we feel, based on how we are used to it, based on what we did yesterday. The redesigned Centre for Analysis and Planning is therefore called upon to meet this need. A similar serious and important issue is therefore also the recommendation to the Ministry of Foreign Scientific Council, which will give its opinion on matters of a legal nature, namely issues of international law. Since we are dealing with international legal procedures, ladies and gentlemen, we must be prepared to judge when it is of interest and when it is not, and always ready to do our best for the interests of our country. On such specific issues, however, we need a special treatment. And that's what today's bill does. The establishment of an autonomous Legislative Initiative Office in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is provided for in Articles 14 and 15 of Law 4048/2012. But it hasn't happened so far. Ladies and gentlemen, you have done so and you have given up. It is high time, then, that it is now and that it is done before the wider institutional reforms in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. There are reforms on specialized technical issues, which are found in the sphere of foreign policy and do not meet anywhere else. So the bill recognizes that you don't find a easily unpaid consul like you want him, where you want him and whenever you want him, so he allows the person you have to keep him three years more than the mandatory retirement age of sixty-seven years, if his health allows him. Another case of the same nature is the increase of the permitted days, off-site, of certain officials from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, based in Athens, and their job is to travel abroad. But perhaps, Minister, we need another regulation, an amendment which says that when the Prime Minister travels abroad to meet with major international business actors, in order to bring investments in the country, he is allowed to use the Prime Minister's plane at public expense and does not need to walk or even, Minister, to bring in a regulation so that we can get our Prime Minister a PM bike! I was going to comment on the other serious regulation of the bill on parliamentary control of the special expenditure of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I was going to say that with a little good sense and a little understanding between the leaders of democratic parliamentary parties, representing an increased majority of the House, these costs could be carefully controlled, with absolute confidence. What do you say, however, when we have become parliamentary parties that break up their clothes that the country needs investments, then break their clothes when the Prime Minister seeks these investments without making them bouquet. Perhaps - I say perhaps - some of the Vice-Presidents, who have been involved in and know about the private sector, are also aware that, when we enter into negotiations between companies to conclude a trade agreement, a confidentiality contract is first concluded. You, ladies and gentlemen of the Officerate, who have also studied Harvard, have this in your pocket. Confidentiality agreement tells Harvard, which popularly means everything we say among us lives. The private business, that you love in words, is how they work, gentlemen, who are favoring the private sector.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u38	What are you doing with them?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u39	If you want to talk to them, that's how you go. When the job is closed, do the boukon, but not before, unless you want to "burn" the job, so normal, ladies and gentlemen, and especially you of the Officer's Vice-President, the question arises what you want at last.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u40	You're teaching us capitalism?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u41	Do you want to "burn" the job because you are afraid that the recovery of the economy will hurt you politically? Are you so unrelated to how the private sector works? I can't believe it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u42	And you're related!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u43	Or are you distracting your leader's "substantially"? But let me tell you something that will come to you: people, you know, don't get into planes just to go on vacation like you do, because for you the plane is equivalent to holidays. Sometimes people move on plane to serve the interests of the country, like our diplomats, like our Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting in favour of this bill both at the outset and on the articles. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u44	Capitalism lessons from SYRIZA!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u45	Mr. Chiara has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u46	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have had the opportunity to hear both the Minister, who is currently not in the Chamber, and the honourable Member who has just come down on the stage. I think that more or less each of us can easily formulate a view on how the government brings a draft law and proposes it in plenary and on what might be behind this whole procedure as a second thought or as a second attempt. I will try to present some thoughts, while for us in the New Democracy it is a common assumption that, in matters relating to foreign policy and national defence, there must be a general consensus and a general political agreement. It would really be a good job today to discuss a bill that would give us the opportunity to reach agreement and agree. I'm saying that with all my honesty. This bill - I pointed it out to the Committee on Foreign Affairs - has many positive points on which one might look forward to consultation. Characteristics I could mention the abolition of the EMRP or the debate that is taking place on how we should deal with the big problem of waste spending, or even issues relating to the preparation of the bills or the more general arrangements that it is trying to complete through concrete proposals. At the same time, however, the bill comes to show that, in the way that the government is thinking about issues, mainly concerning the operation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it is almost impossible to understand that because it is clear - and especially after the Minister's position - that in the end this bill came only to satisfy his first two articles. There is no doubt about this any more, when the Minister speaks for twenty minutes about her necessity, if you want, to change the CSCE to CSCE, and why there must be, and when we know that there is an open debate on the Agency of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - at least the Ministers present and I personally, having the experience of my term of office in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - I think that any discussion that can be held at the present time is just giving rise to the present, they keep it a political system, rather than answering problems or giving solutions in that direction. I am saying this because, despite the fact that the Minister said that there was a lot of discussion about the organization and that he took it back, because some forces and so on, on the one hand, I wonder what these powers might be beyond any physical political leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and on the other hand when this debate has lasted for so many years and we know that it was a mature development that could be determined in the next two or three months, I think the answer could be very easily given and we could wait for a final model of the Ministry's organization to be established in which addresses could possibly be integrated or councils such as those which are attempting to bring the Minister into line today. I am saying this because, despite the fact that the Minister said that there was a great deal of discussion about the Agency and that he took it back, because some forces and so on, on the one hand, I wonder what these powers might be beyond any physical political leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and, on the other hand, when this debate has lasted for so many years and we know that it was a mature development that could be determined in the next two or three months, I think the answer could be very easily given and we could wait for a final model of the Ministry's organization to be established in which addresses could possibly be included or councils such as those which the Minister is trying to bring today. I think that to a very large extent we could say that at the moment there is a development. This development, however, can be seen when it seems clear that the placement of these people through a reasonable criteria described, is actually under way with an institutional role of experts at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? I think that to a very large extent, each one of you could see it, understand it and possibly contradict it, so that there is no question from there on. There are issues open. They were mentioned earlier by the rapporteur of the New Democracy. Officials shall be classified on a case-by-case basis. In Article 14, the abolition of the CSR, which I repeat as a philosophy could find us in agreement, unfortunately does not at the same time describe what will happen with the staff if it is paid. One issue has been raised. Should this not really be answered, in order to have an agreement place rather than a general arrangement that does not look forward to and does not provide much more for how a human resource will be treated, and whether there are competitions or projects at the present time in the EMS, which are in progress, whether or not to be compensated? Any reason for all this in this arrangement? You will probably answer, Minister, but this must be described by the law itself. How can one consider the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to be evolving through this legislative initiative, when there is in Article 18 the abolition of the six-year limitation on the secondments of employment? How long can an employee be seconded to understand, from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, when we are overtime which, to a very large extent, pose a challenge for all the rest of the country's employees? And, of course, how can we say that the qualifications we want to appoint an official, diplomatic or not, through a ministry contest, should be fulfilled in the time of his appointment and not in the time when the application is submitted? These do not fit into a serious state, honourable and dear Ministers. There are issues that one needs to see obviously by analyzing a reality and trying to deal with problems, but also on the other, taking into account that any choice must move within absolute legitimacy and in this example that the political system must specifically transmit this difficult period to Greek society. I think that the position of the Minister has confirmed that if we cannot cover things in a very specific way, it is very easy to move forward and to resort to what is sounding good. And I am obviously referring to Article 4 on top-secret expenditure. We have pointed out to the Committee on Foreign Affairs that yes, we must at last have a serious debate and that this issue must be answered, because it is causing Greek society to a very large extent. But it cannot be done in such a way as to expose our national interests. And this is a stable and stable position of the New Democracy. Finally, I would like to put forward a remark on the comments I have heard earlier from my colleague, who has just come down. Obviously, it is the Prime Minister's right to use the Prime Minister's aircraft and go wherever he wants. It is, however, also an absolute obligation to inform the Greek society, the Greek citizens because they use the plane, where they go and who they meet. The possibility of trying to quantify the debate every time, without actually highlighting the responsibility of the political system, is obviously apt to a well-known practice and tactic - I am sorry to say - many political parties and a very large part of our political system, which really has to do with populism itself. We in the New Democracy would very much like to agree on a draft government bill today. But in this way, Mr President-in-Office, you realise that such an agreement and such a consensus cannot be reached. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u47	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u48	Mr. Amanatidis, keep notes and you will take the floor to answer. Because you can't ask to answer each speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u49	It is a question asked by the honourable Member, Mr Tsiaras, and I think it is easier to answer now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u50	Well, you have the floor for two minutes because you asked for the floor. But you'll keep notes from now on and when the cycle is over, I'll give you the reason to answer the whole question. Here, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u51	Sure. Just let me say something about the EMS and about the obligations it has. According to the provision of the law and as the Services inform me, since Article 14 (b) states that the Greek State becomes a universal successor to all rights, obligations and legal relationships of the repealed NCA, as well as to the Accounting Office of the State - which puts the 280,000 000, which is what the EMCDDA owes - the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will pay them and will be paid. To be clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u52	Without that being clarified, however.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u53	But once the Catholic contractor is in the Accounting Office, I would like to make it clear that this money will be paid.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u54	It is recorded as a declaration - the Ministry's commitment to this matter. Parliamentary spokesman for the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR, Mr. Andreas Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u55	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we are of course discussing a draft law by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but it would be a mistake not to attempt to review what the top government and political majority officials have said over the past few days. We are not talking about the last period, because it would not be enough for me to mention the'margaritas' or the dangerous ones that have been said in the last month or the last two months. I'll be staying in the last seven days. This week we have to take it to SYRIZA's "superlet". You are taking care, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, with statements and actions to cause a nightmare in the country's economy, a nightmare that has become a regime. Are you conscious, therefore, what does it mean for an investor to listen to the minister for two years - and even foreign - and now a majority parliamentary representative to speak of a drachma? Do you understand what the Minister for Immigration means to talk about immigration, saying that after the dead he has become wise? Since the Minister mentioned Aristotle, I, too, say that the 50 dead will be all right, the Minister will feel Aristotle! Tell me, who is the Prime Minister of the country mocking when he says "within a year and a half we have set up the economy on her feet"? Who's he talking to? His ministers have done here the state finance accounts, the Greek state, 2014, 2013, and have found that in 2014 the economy closed at 0.35% and went for growth rates of 3% and 3.7%. Today Mr Vernardakis, unlike what your Vice-President, Mr Drasakis, says, is not the end of the world. This is a message to the economy that liquidity doesn't play a big part, that's all right. Others, however, have said other government ministers, dangerously incompetent but also devastated. Minister, indignant of the past, he said to a citizen who kindly spoke to him: "Go on, fro." "Come on, freeze"! You go and get up and go! You can't talk to people with this nerve. And it is, today, these days, the new year, on occasion, the insurance policy of ordinary workers with a 'block', 27% who, for two months, become 10%. And it contrasts with the practice that for seven months, which you had time as a Ministry of Labour, you did not do the necessary work, so that you could be okay with the very heavy conditions you have imposed on the world of work, at least be practically good. You didn't show any skills there either. Today you are golding the pill for two months, but 27% as a general regulation of Katrugalos - it has been somewhat described by the insured - will apply and reign. Today I was sent a letter from a worker insured in IKA, but in order to feed three children - all three of them bad luck are sick with chronic illnesses - she is forced to do a second job in private. Mr. Katrugalos! You voted for it! Mr. Katrugalos, SYRIZA and ANEL! At EUR 500, EUR 150 premiums to the OAU without a return of EUR 1, ladies and gentlemen. Bravo! Well done, you people's friends! I shall now refer to the issues of the Ministry, not the draft law. As a parliamentary representative, we are legalising and entitled by the Rules of Procedure. Look. Education, culture, defence, foreign policy on Democratic Partnership are obviously not fields outside politics, but are fields outside political confrontation and conflict as a rule. When your Minister, that of education in the 1915s, the teaching of the "Epitaphis" of Thucydides, is worthy not of criticism, but of reproach in Parliament. In general, however, our climate is not yours. We will not have a climate of frustration when we discuss foreign policy issues. We proved it to you in the Cyprus issue. I have said so to the committee, ladies and gentlemen, now. When a opposition party does not put the bar so high that the government goes down and is fat-hard or throwing it down and betraying it, when opposition speaks wisely and does not cause problems for the government, when it tries to deal with a big issue, then it offers what it has to offer to the issues that I have said and which must be outside our daily political confrontation. That's a deposit. It's a deposit for the next few years, when you retire. I hope that the parliamentary forces who learn from the Opposition and especially from the Democratic Independence will remember it, not to ruin their memory, on the basis of the fact that we will go to the Opposition, that there is a need for understanding on these issues and another attitude from the attitude of the indignant. Ladies and gentlemen, this does not mean that we cannot underline the different position the Minister for Foreign Affairs has with the Minister for National Defence. I will not go into details, but also with an announcement from me, and now I stress that these two ministers in a country that lives the problems of a country which is close to Turkey, especially when it is Greece, these two ministers are doomed to be identified within a government. Otherwise they cannot coexist in the same government. It was good reports by the Minister for Foreign Affairs a little while ago about the problems, the contradictions of the time. He said globalisation would want fewer equipment, more extroversion. But is this the policy that suits all countries, or for many of them, an increase in armaments is a good rule? It's a real contradiction. Greece, however, is experiencing another and is experiencing it on very painful terms, ladies and gentlemen. The Greek case describes the example of a country which, for two hundred years, is a co-determination factor of its bankruptcy, is the equipment, from the "extreme" of Diligiannis, which is similar to the government and the Prime Minister, to the more moderate of other times. Today we remain a country first in armament expenditure. But we have Turkey's neighbour. But this represents the policies that need to be considered. That means balances, need for balances. This need for balances needs a political strategy. There is no need for good jobs in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for some academics. He told us: Who are we going to do politics with? With those who do not have the necessary training for the big issues? The question is rhetorical and answered. How did we get Mr. Alivizato to defend Greek democracy on the issue of royal property and defeat? How did we get him? How did you get Mr. Manjurani and Mr. Drosso to be defeated in the field of battle on the issues of the Pappa Law? Does this have to be a permanent position? It is rhetorical to ask questions which the practice answers and answers. I do not understand why, with its intensity, the issues that lead him to the regulations which Mr Constantinople has put forward - quite rightly - said that we are voting against. And yet the majority Members of the House despised Minister Varoufakis when he said he was going to work with the Ministry of Finance. They used to smuggle him. They were suffocated by the Greek publicity. Of course, he made fun of them first, because he bought very expensive counsellors, foreigners, to do what he did and for which he will give a speech, so that we do not forget. Now let's go to the draft law. Mr Constantinople gave the meaning of those who define his principle, and he rightly said that we will not vote in principle or for many provisions. We will not vote on the provisions establishing services. I don't care if the Minister took advice from those who gave him the law or if he didn't get it. It's his thing. But at the time when Greece has difficulties and the SYRIZA Government responds to the difficulties with the creation of services, we will not fail. "I have a problem and I make a General Secretariat" was a recipe for decades. These are mistakes that we and New Democracy have made and for which we have at least made self-criticism and have left the logic of the state of state. The 'I have a problem and I am building a service' as a model of policy production has failed. You are following it in this draft law and we are voting against it. And you can't even walk people that the calendar misfortune has caused them trouble. Yes, we agree with POTAMI, we agree with the Centro Association. We said it first. I said this first, and Mr Constantinople in committee, that the ones who are at the edge of your regulation, that is on 31 December, must have the arrangements that the law holds with the other officials. They are asking for it and you must satisfy it. Also, six people who were taken out in a hurry, as they describe us, and they must be in the spiral of your choices, because these choices are fair. He also said that all past problematic situations with economic content will be covered. Right, but when? There are people, seven employees, who since 2012, under the responsibility of all the ministers, have to take 1 euro.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u56	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u57	Yeah, all parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u58	The committee has been told that they have been taken.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u59	These people - not employees - must be satisfied as a priority. Therefore, the committee must collect the supporting documents and an addition to Article 3(b) must be made to it which regulates it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm hanging up with this, and thank you, Mr. President. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we are waiting for the Agency. I did not want to interrupt a course of discussion today, which has no problems. The Minister spoke and said the General Accounting Office was delaying the law a year. What has his Agency finally caused such delays? I'd ask him if it was a different context, and if it was another ministry. What does it have to do, so that for a year it will not be able to bring the Agency that it planned last April and which has been unresolved? What does the General Accounting locate and stop it from legislating? In any case, after completing this excursion to the Greek administration, it will bring something overall. With the spirit that we have seen every effort and that you and the Secretaries, who are inside the ADP, will also face the Agency. From now on, I say - and it is my last phrase - the question of economic commercial followers, to see it with great respect. Look, gentlemen - and it is my last phrase, really - when you come out of Greece and talk about the economy and its problems, the economic followers - I do not want to say, I do not want to show existing, your employees - tell you that we are doing a job here, but we cannot connect to the Centre. That was the consistent problem of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In this context, you must attach a special importance. Because when you say that you must respect Greece's ability to open up financially, you must also see their own troubles and difficulties in linking them to the Centre. I have special sensitivity because this service has been made by me at your Ministry and I unfortunately watch that the years are over, but the problems remain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u60	Mr. Panayotarus has the floor since the Golden Dawn. Then there's Mr. Dimitrios Karras and Mr. Xydakis will be followed. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. Finally, the government has not yet told us which of the six joint owners of the Rothschild bank met to solve this question. The other government, the Independent Greeks, the Rothschild, of course, blamed them, constantly bailed them out during the election period, of course, because now things are a little different. Today - before we proceed to the bill - 25 years ago this lousy Maastricht Treaty was signed by New Democracy and PASOK on 7 February 1992, considering it to be something very good for our country. Twenty-five years later, however, we see the grim reality. The so-called EEC was gradually transformed into the current European Union of bankers, loan sharks and restrictions on the national sovereignty of its Member States and all the negative effects we have experienced in the year 2017. The Minister and the State Secretary are gone. I wanted to ask them about the questions tabled by the Golden Dawn in particular on issues relating to Thrace and the North Continent and not answered for months with various pretexts. It's all right, though. We read in Article 1 in this draft law that the following change exists. The rename of the Scientific Centre for Analysis and Design in a Design Analysis Centre. This major change will solve all the problems of the long-term failures of the various foreign ministers for decades in our country. Of course, if you think these renames will give a solution to the problems, you're probably wrong. The tragic Greek reality was what we saw the day before yesterday, when the Minister of Migration Policy Mr. Mousalas visited the Greek to see his works and his days. There all Greece saw a small Afghan bird whispering with hate and maniasm by a Greek police officer. Instead of sending him a package with his family back, we had him a two - page tribute to the NATIONS newspaper. He went to soften this serious thing that happened to the detriment of a Greek citizen. In the background, in the back, another one showed that we'll take your heads off, we'll cut your heads off. Instead of cutting them off something else, it's all right, there's nothing wrong at all. Mr. Kotzias said before here that there would be cosmopolitan things with this bill on foreign policy, that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs would be working a clock in the era of fourth robots, where robots are now making robots and many other very nice and interesting ones. But the good thing was when he told us a name about who's going to take over. He told us that Mr. Rosakis doesn't need to be a double-depositor. Is Christos Rozakakis, the well-known Minister of Government, who was Vice-President of the European Court of Human Rights and had also made two convicted judgments of our country as Vice-President? To remind the world of what is happening in this country and who we put, the wolves, to keep the sheep, in this case Mr Rosaki. Mr Rozakakis had made a number of convicted decisions - he too signed to the detriment of our country. It was supposed to be a government official who defended our national interests, but as Vice-President it was working exactly the opposite. The first was about the so-called 'Macedonian minority', so said Mr Rosakis. October 2005 and the eight-member composition of the Court of Justice of the European Court of Justice, chaired by a Cypriot European Court of Justice and in which the Greek Court of Justice is a member and rapporteur, Mr Rosakis, avenges the case of the Uranium Arc Association, which is mainly active in the Florina region. They are those who say that there is a Macedonian minority in our country and is fighting for the recognition of this Macedonian minority. The Uranium Arc appealed to the European Court of Justice by accusing the Greek State, because the Greek authorities required the organization to download an inscription that had been posted in the so-called "Macedonian language". This phrase, according to official observations from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which were submitted to the court at that time, was used during the civil war in Macedonia by the seekers to turn against the Greek territory and take Florina from the well-known Koritatatatzides, Greeks, as well as Bulgarians and Skopje. The expression of the sign, which said "Vinoito" directly referred to these alpha-corrosive, separatist tendencies of Skopje. The decision by Mr Rozakis, who you now want to place at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to direct foreign policy, was as follows: it is legal union and aims to defend the Macedonian minority that lives in Greece. He is the one you want to put into this CSCE and direct foreign policy. Also, he had again condemned our homeland over a falseman in Thrace. He had taken an open stand in favour of those who say that he is not a Muslim, but is a Turkish minority, interpreting as he wanted the Treaty of Lausanne, if he tells you that, Minister, with all the problems that have been presented recently with the demands of Mr Erdogan and others. You'll put him and others like him in the Ministry to make foreign policy when they think there is a Turkish minority in Thrace. These are the ones you want to put in, and you say that this bill is good and correct. We're talking about signs and monsters happening at the Ministry. This shows or that you are set up to betray our homeland or that you are irrelevant. There is no third way out of this case by Mr Rosaki. We have also seen the successes of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs over time. Let's go back to the Imia with everything that's happened, where you managed the grey zones. We have seen what happened with Kosovo, where in essence the Greek state has recognised Kosovo at the expense of our interests with what that means. This country has been the incubator of the jihadists since the early 1990s and you have recognized it as an official state. But what should we do? You allow them and they move freely into our homeland when others cannot take a tourist visa to leave their nice money. We saw in the Cyprus issue where you all agreed together that you should support the President of Cyprus, Mr Anastasiades, who is no longer a president, because he appeared with a label "Anasiadis", as if it were something special. If it is to be your foreign policy, blindly have robots that will make robots and all that you want to put and improve and cover the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We also saw that all of them should warn you during the election period in America, when the current President of the United States Donald Trump was still competing with the candidates in the Republican party, about who will get the anointment where the Prime Minister came out and said, "Woe, he will slowly not come out!" Well, he finally came out, and he's the President of the United States, he's the planet commander, and you are now trying to gather the unbelievables. Or for protectionism because Mr. Kotzias mentioned things here. He said, "Where is the world going?" I'm sure he's not going where you guys are going. The world is going in a completely different direction now with what is happening in Russia, America, Britain and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u62	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u63	I shall conclude, Mr President. We heard about AOZ, there are new planning methods. But it's not about how some technicians, some experts, will design the EOZ, it's about finally making a statement of the EOZ, which is a unilateral energy, as International Law says, and the rest we'll find it along the way. It will be necessary, Minister, and not everything you have told us. It is a well-founded bill, which is presented as going to improve the image of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but all you will do, as many people say, is to make some more comfortable, as first and foremost, Christos Rosakes - Rosenstein. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u64	Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras has the floor. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and also for the excellent work he has done. Xydakis and Sarakiotis from SYRIZA, Kokodimos and Kefaliannis from New Democracy. Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. When the Foreign Ministry's bill comes in, I have the impression that it will be possible to have a debate on foreign policy being held within the plenary because the debates in the Committee on Foreign and Defence Affairs are limited and, at times, the plenary does not have a picture of what the government is seeking or not seeking. So I took this bill in my hands, hoping that it would open up a debate on foreign policy. Unfortunately, however, not only does the debate not open through the proposed provisions, but rather it is a lack of legislation and I will explain why. I read it, Mr President. It begins with saying: 'Report of Statement'. We are calling today, by decision of the Conference of Presidents, to vote at first instance. What is the beginning of this bill? There is not a word in principle in the explanatory statement, which starts directly and says: 'Amendments to Law 3566, Clearing as a Code of the Organization of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. With Article 1...», etc. Is this a draft law authority to help the House and Members to understand what the government intends to do in matters relating to the operation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which are reflected in foreign policy? The international round, Mr President, Ministers, today is agitated. Greece is in the middle. Whether we like it or not, Greece currently has limited sovereignty in many respects, because it has not previously exercised any of the good international economic policy in the past. Not only internal economic policy, but also good international economic policy. He didn't exercise it. We are therefore calling today for a solution to a matter. The Minister said that technological developments, global developments require the amendment of the Code of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' Agency. Yes, indeed, it had come as a code for this bill in 2007 had been voted on in only one debate, without the possibility of Parliament intervening and perhaps today it has some need for amendment. But what are the needs of this amendment? If I put it down and see what it's looking for, do you know what I'm going to say, Ministers? I will say that it expresses university competition to diplomatic employees. And I'll explain that if you want. Because we see that institutions, scientific councils, planning and analysis councils are being created exclusively by university professors. I have nothing with the teachers, unlike I honor them and appreciate them. However, on an issue, which is primarily a matter of action, I would like to see it as an amalgamation of teachers and diplomats in these councils. Because the theories are good, but who can make sure that the excellent professors can define a country's foreign policy as well? I cannot understand that for this reason: I have studied, I have finished a university, I have studied in my life, I have not abandoned the study, but I see in many cases the theory, and especially in a theoretical field, such as foreign policy. On the other hand, in my view, foreign policy is a battle. The Scientific Council may also be useful, but the Centre for Analysis and Planning is useful, if any. He has no people who have a picture of a battle for foreign policy and he has no technocrats at all. Because my colleagues are the lawyers, those who know about international European law are good to deal with the interests of Greece in the international forums, but in the development of policy lines for me it is not enough. I don't want to spend more time. I want to stand by two, three provisions of the bill and close, Mr President. So we see that other cases are coming. Article 3 establishes an independent Legislative Initiative Office. Indeed, there is a legislative framework which provides for such offices in the Ministries. Is this necessary, however, especially in a ministry which - let me say - a luxurious Special Legal Service which is strengthened and at the same time degraded today with the Scientific Council and the Centre for Analysis and Planning? Did it need or could we simply amend the law to say that the duties of the Legal Initiative Office are the tasks of the Ministry's Special Legal Service? I don't want to talk about specific expenditure. It is a well-known issue of waste funds, and it is a matter of plundering public money. All I can say and wish is that they are used rationally and efficiently. Not to be made to promote ministers or governments abroad, but to serve the public interest. This is an issue that cannot be debated any more, because if such a debate is opened, it may not be very pleasant. For other matters such as age limits and value-added awards, one cannot object. Indeed, there are people who consume at service - diplomatic, consulate - their lives. Let the state give them the right to have a satisfaction at the end of their professional, service life. In relation to this article, however, which provides legal support for the staff and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs from criminal or civil persecutions, I would like to ask for an improvement, a supplement. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I ask: When is the act of the Greek State accused either of violating duty or even of infidelity to ask for protection from the Minister of Foreign Affairs? Let them qualify for clarification that the acts of which the State will take over the defence against the State against the Greek State against the national interest will not be directed. In the end, the Minister will not dare to deny the provision of legal competence, because he will be controlled and said he is not a charity, he is not a protector of the Ministry's services. So I think that this provision needs to be improved. I know he has to stay. I'm not one of those people I'm going to say that he has to retire. This point, however, needs to be improved. Of course, I would like to say that the Agency of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs also needed the exceptional use of legal, legal and administrative services, whether from Greek or from foreign offices. Should we call it so loud now? There are other provisions that allow it. There are many instances of abuses of external services either in international courts or not. Let us be a little more friendly to the ministries, not to question them, particularly the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. These people, who are scattered around the world, provide services at times better, sometimes worse. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u66	Write in a note your proposal to improve the provision in writing, and give it to the Minister, if he sees it at the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u67	I'll tell him right away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty-eight students and students and two educational attendants from the 2nd Kiatou Corinth High School (Second Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Kefalayannis, Mr Xydakis as usual - he always wants to talk to the parliamentary representatives from the government party at the end. Do you now want to take the floor as a parliamentarian?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u69	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u70	Here, you have the floor. Then there's Mr. Sarakiotis and Mr. Konstantinos Koukodemos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. It is of interest, ladies and gentlemen, that the Legislative Initiative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which has been the first in fact in the last two years, coincides with the anniversary of the two years of the governance of SYRIZA and Independent Greeks. And it is interesting, because one would expect that after at least so long a period of time the leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, if nothing else would have detected, recorded, evaluated, hierarchy and finally attempted to resolve some of the most serious issues that currently concern the officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I will mention, for example, the absence of direct insurance cover for the officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs who are serving in countries outside the European Union. And I do not know if this House is aware that the officials in our country abroad are obliged today to pay their own medical, pharmaceutical and hospital expenses and then submit the documents to the EEAS, so there are of course long delays. Many, in fact, are already dating back to 2010. This practice, of course, has become time-consuming and costly for the Greek State, but also for the officials themselves, who are forced to pay a great deal of money, especially when it comes to emergencies. These costs would be avoided if the officials concerned had a certain number of recognised insurance in the country of accreditation, for example by means of an insurance card, Ministers, or by means of a transnational agreement. And of course the cost to the public would be much lower. I will also refer to the problematic system of households where, on the basis of the provisions of Law No.4336/2015, the famous "third memorandum" is arbitrarily linked to the actual cost of transporting a building internationally to the cost of living in a country. It is also worth mentioning the parallel representation system of our country abroad by setting up dozens of press offices that have led to a overlapping of structures, replacing the following press releases of embassies. For the record to say that these offices, which were also set up by the famous N.4339/2015 for television licenses, often operate by staffing multiples and often larger, even those of local Greek embassies. We must also mention the structure of economic diplomacy which is fragmented between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Development. To understand, ladies and gentlemen, the size of this operation is enough to say that the commercial followers and the relevant directors of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have very little picture today of what is being discussed or at stake in international trade agreements, such as transatlantic agreements. Of course, these officials have a secondary reason for organising economic diplomacy missions abroad in relation to the Ministry of Development, despite the fact that they are the administrative head of the spear to attract investment from abroad. I have, of course, kept to the end the issue of the dramatic reduction in the Foreign Ministry's appropriations, a reduction which, not only is excessive, but also completely unfair with regard to the other ministries. Note: In 2016 there was a decrease in the foreign ministry budget by 12.8%, when in most ministries this did not exceed 4%. Of course, this budget, which you are currently raising with this draft law, is actually at the expense of the Ministry's real needs. As long as one sees the report of the General Accounting Office of the State, which accompanies this draft law, to understand. We have 130,000 for project contracts, for the preparation of studies and for organising conferences and events, and it is also unknown what is needed to pay the wages of the scientific associates of the CSCE, 120,000 per year for the operation of the Office of Legislative Initiative, a office which, as our rapporteur has said - I repeat, has little to offer, as well, EUR 103 000 to raise the cost of travel by specific officials and advisers of the Minister. And all this, unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, at the same time that the majority of our authorities abroad do not have more than 2 000 to 3 000 a year for the necessary public relations and when many of our embassies abroad, unfortunately do not have the necessary money even for the national holidays. The Minister said earlier that this legislation actually saves EUR 1 to EUR 1.5 million on expenditure. I think that the Minister is right now - and I am making a reference, but he is absent from the Chamber at the moment - he is self-determining.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u72	For the ESS.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u73	I am telling you that at the moment the Minister, who is not here, actually makes himself redundant in the sense that if they did save that amount, it should be mentioned in the report of the General Accounting Office of the State. As you have read, ladies and gentlemen, nothing has been said. I would therefore really like you to tell us how this figure is being saved and, of course, to talk about it next. This, of course, is only some of the problems that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is facing today, at least from an administrative point of view, while our country is intensified while it is in the middle of an unstable triangle, starting from Ukraine and reaching Syria and North Africa, with major problems in progress, such as refugee - immigration, the fight against terrorism and, of course, European integration. So, what of the above-mentioned malfunctions, which I mentioned, did the head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs actually deal with this bill? Unfortunately, no one. On the other hand, it adopted interventions in the Centre for Analysis and Planning, the Scientific Council and the Office for Legislative Initiatives. I also mentioned to the committee that the draft law which we are debating at the moment is not a bill that refers to the officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but is a draft law which refers to the non-offices of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It is a piece of legislation that creates parallel structures within the Central Office, which replace the diplomatic sector in too many critical functions. It was said, for example, that many other countries abroad also have a certain form of think tanks, which are strategically supported by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. However, ladies and gentlemen, our country's Ministry of Foreign Affairs has its thinking tanks. Not to mention the CSR - which has rightly been abolished - which has played this particular role. There's the DCIEMP. There are also forty-one expert ambassadors and another thirty contractors. It also has the Council of Political Affairs and, of course, at the highest level, the National Foreign Policy Council. It is obvious, of course, that all these institutions and all these officials are either not enough or you do not trust them. And you obviously believe that the question of foreign policy analysis and planning will be resolved by the four additional scientific associates of the Centre for Analysis and Planning. And I wonder: did you have any thought of restructured some of the above structures, so that they could work better, evaluate the existing expertise, see where the gaps exist and, possibly, cover them up later? I'm going to the Scientific Council, too. Inherited by taking up your duties two legal services at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: the Special Legal Service and the HISEC, the Special Legal Service of the European Communities. They don't make it up to you, either. So what are you doing? You are recommending a scientific board that will give an opinion on questions of a legal nature, in which the Head of the Special Legal Service, who is involved, will in fact not have the right to vote. In other words, the man who condensates the Ministry's experience and institutional memory in critical foreign policy issues, the people who have so far handled major issues of international law will not have a decisive role. And the worst of these, of course, is that the Special Scientific Council, i.e. non-service bodies without administrative responsibility, without necessarily being aware of the burden of the task of defending national interests, by which the official of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has sworn during his term of office, will be informed of critical aspects, will have access to confidential documents and to unpublished information, relating to the defence of national interests. With regard to the Office for Legislative Initiatives, I would remind you that, when this service is set up, we are eloquently reaching the four in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with responsibility for the legal processing of matters. The most challenging, of course, here is that a service is being run with permanent officials, without an evaluation being carried out, a worthwhile process. In other words, staffing is not done, for example, by an APA procedure, but by a decision of the Minister, on the recommendation of a committee appointed by the Minister himself. In other words, checks and controls are the same person! It has also been said by many colleagues - even colleagues in the Com mittee - that this office is, in fact, obsolete. And how it could not be, when we know very well, ladies and gentlemen, that the only legislative work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is how the regulation will be amended and nothing else, because the rest are sanctions for international conventions. All I would like to add is that this provision is by far the most inventive way the Minister could find in order to increase his office with four scientific and legal advisers. I would also like to mention a little bit of the matter that once again has been fragmented and isolately affected by the bill. And that's the pension scheme for the State Department's employees. Ladies and gentlemen, see how this is linked to the previous ones: on the one hand you do not trust the hundreds of about eighty-five ambassadors, whom you are commanding and have supervision, in order to analyse, design and strategy if you are promoting non-services at the Centre for Analysis and Planning and, on the other hand, legislate to keep them four, five or more years in service. Perhaps the Minister, the Ministry's leadership, tell me that this is the case, to have better pension rights. I'm with you for that. Personally, I will make a proposal to you: Why don't you place these people, after they close the thirty-five years in the CSCE, that is to say, without additional recruitment, and with their experience of design and analysis? I continue with Article 9, on which the Minister mentioned that there are administrative officials who, in 2016, called them for service back home, who of course had to retire on the basis of the former regime. I think it is not moral to overlook the fact that some of them have left their homes on the other side of the earth, without knowing when and how they will get them back, because just as a Ministry you did not have the elementary care to tell them that you are calling them back in order to dismantle them. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me a minute, Mr President. Of course, we must not overlook the fact that you are actually bringing them into a more unfavourable treatment with regard to their pension rights. And, to the best of my knowledge, you cannot guarantee them that if, for example, they are retired under the former regime, they will have full pension rights if, for example, a law comes, which tells them that they have been retired at an earlier age and cannot cover them for that. I will not go into the other provisions because I think our rapporteur has covered both our positions and our remarks in full. But, in closing my report, I think I should be a little - and it should be recorded in this Chamber - in another negative development with regard to the economic data of our country and the tragic deadlock in which the SYRIZA and Independent Greeks have led the country. Yesterday of the most official lips, those of the Administrative Board of the European Central Bank, Mario Draghi, it was said that Greece unfortunately cannot participate in the quantitative relaxation programme before the decision and agreement on medium-term debt measures. Of course, you are well aware, ladies and gentlemen, that when we talk about medium-term measures, these are to be decided after spring 2018. This means that until then the yields of the Greek debt bonds will not fall and, of course, in no case will our country, unfortunately be able to come out on the markets for the completion of the third support programme. And, of course, quantitative relaxation was the hope of reducing the yields of these bonds so that our country could actually get out of the market and possibly also refocus on the Memorandum. With Mr Draghi's position yesterday, who is also a philanthropist, he knows the issues very well - we do not say it or the so-called extremes of Europe - the exit of our country into the markets by spring 2018 is now practically impossible. Suffice to see the yields, for example, of the two-year bond that climbed up the day before yesterday, if I remember correctly, around 9.5%. For those who can understand this development, this means, in practice, that the government's third memorandum "the first time left" is actually over.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u74	Finish, Mr. Kefaliannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u75	I shall conclude, Mr President. In fact, you are driving the country either in a fourth memorial or in a total catastrophe. And I think that only as crocodile tears can those tears be taken by the government through the Government Representative, who today said that in March we might want to get into quantitative relaxation, regardless of whether the Minister of the same government - Mr Vernardakis in particular - said that even this is a secondary issue. I think that very late you remembered, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, because this should have been at least a year ago, when 1.4 trillion euros were actually available and our country could have entered it. Right now we're late, and I'm very afraid we're gonna miss that, too. So at the moment, whatever you say about the part of quantitative relaxation - this important one - is unfortunately not going to believe you. Once again you're unreliable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u76	I would just remind you that today - I think - the Maastricht Treaty was adopted in 1992. All right, I know that you will say 'the Eurosceptic', but if the Maastricht Treaty does not change, even ten 'Dragi's talk and say what they want, the future of Europe will be black. That is my personal view, of course. I'm just reminding you, so we don't forget. Mr. Ioannis Sarakiotis from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are called upon to vote on the amendment of the Code of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' Agency. For many years the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been the trophy for the number "2" of the ruling party. Delphi was struggling for who or who will understand the ministerial position, as the political cost was almost zero and would allow them to go up to the party hierarchy flawless. The zero political cost was the result of the fact that nothing was done. No initiative, no agony, only receptions, shining flashes and recreational trips around the world. In the last two years, the government has been trying to change this whole culture of indifference and nepotism. The head of the Ministry has finally placed an expert on matters of chronic professional and academic experience and not yet a high-ranking party official without other parchment. The position of the Minister of Foreign Affairs has ceased to be just a stepping-up step, and it is this mentality that is being transferred to all levels of the Ministry with the bill to be passed. It is attempting to create an organisational structure that will serve national interests and not the personal ambitions of the Minister concerned. It is therefore intended to re-establish two main bodies, the Centre for Analysis and Planning and the Scientific Council, and the Hellenic Centre for European Studies, known as the EMCDDA, is repealed. The Centre for Analysis and Planning will not focus on short-term issues nor will it provide direct operational responses. Its role will be to strengthen the institutional functioning of the Ministry, with its members tabling long-term analysis. Greece has been showing for decades to react simply to external stimuli and emotionally move on a number of issues that required long-term planning. In other words, the high strategy, the clarification of tariffs with the simultaneous wording of the instruments was absent. We didn't know what we wanted, we didn't know what we were doing, we didn't know what we had at our disposal. A prerequisite for the implementation of a structured foreign policy targeting is the existence of a framework for rational assessment of the international situation and care so that the country can benefit as much as possible. International problems have become particularly complex and have ceased to fall within the authority of one single person. There are many dimensions of legal, economic, political, strategic nature to be investigated, and this mission is called on to fulfil the CSCE established. It is worth noting that between 2003 and 2015, the Turkish Ministry of Foreign Affairs hired five hundred ninety-five experts on various issues within a new structure, which monitors and controls everything. These are in neighbouring Turkey. How does Greece now respond to these developments? With an old-fashioned and intertwined structure of the past? Is it not our obligation to establish a worthwhile technological structure in the standards not only of the major planetary powers, but also of other states such as Latvia, Portugal, the Czech Republic? Apparently, yes. And obviously we should have done it as a country for decades already. When the rest of the states were organizing their own ministries, we were simply 'left'. Subsequently, the Scientific Council shall be reconstitute with the participation of teachers of unknown prestige by the relevant branches of the International, European or Public Law and the Scientific Director of the CSCE. At a time when our country's open issues have a headline for legal claims, this body is a necessity. The negotiation process in the Cyprus and the issue of demarcation of the EEZ brought to the surface the lack of appropriate advisory bodies on matters of a legal nature. In the same direction, the Office for Legislative Initiatives is also set up. With regard to confidential funds now, they are finally being supervised by the House. Democracy and transparency everywhere. It is not meant to smash the money of Greek taxpayers in the name of secret funds which partly result in non-governmental organisations with a dubious role. The government has shown that it has zero tolerance to such phenomena, sending three such NGOs to the Prosecutor of Corruption last summer. Each euro should be controlled, as the opposite would be a challenge to the Greeks and Greek women who are suffering by making huge efforts to get the country out of the crisis. The Greek Centre for European Studies, which has been inactive since 2012, continued to present unreasonable expenditures such as rent, communal and wages of employees. This abolishes twenty-three posts, which were provided for by the law on its establishment and operation. As I said before, this is not a time for such expenses. It is also not a time for funding frontal institutions. We need instruments that will produce substantial work and which will not be a refugee of party-sponsored teachers and extremist scientific aptitude. The country must have institutions. This principle does not exclude the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The aim is to carry out an effective foreign policy, manage the whole of the funds and exploit the country's scientific potential, focusing on the national interest and strengthening our country's position in the Balkans, the Eastern Mediterranean, the European Union and the world. I am therefore voting for this bill, in the hope that similar initiatives will continue throughout the public sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u78	So do we. Mr Constantine Koukodemou from New Democracy has the floor now. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law 'Amendment of the Code of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other provisions' proposed by the Government contains a number of provisions, I would like to say a number of abstractions. Of course, it is immediately understood by anyone who has been trying to find something essential in the text since the first reading. Some of these arrangements are: the staffing of the Ministry of Foreign Analysis and Planning Centre with full-time members, the removal of the thirty-two-year limit for recruitment to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the age limit for seventy-years of consuls, the increase of foreign travel days, which are over eighty in the year, the increase of police officers serving in embassies and consulates, with their payroll being covered by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the addition of UN languages - Chinese, Russian, Arabic - except English and French as a prerequisite for an recruitment. So today it is a question of regulating these individual issues, and you had to bring in a bill for the entire organization of the Ministry. We have said so in the debate on the relevant committee. In this critical period of foreign policy we had to discuss the question of the formation of the National Security Council. It is a proposal put forward by the President of the New Democracy Kyriakos Mitsotakis for about a year. It is a proposal that is considered as necessary as ever. It is a proposal that was adopted by the 10th Conference of the New Democracy. Furthermore, the process of making foreign and security decisions in the country, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be of a ministerial nature. You understand that, too, regardless of whether you admit it or not. I think the other parties have expressed the same idea, with small or large differences. We need to get into this concept and culture, because the factors affecting the country's critical foreign and security policy areas are very complex. At the opposite, we are, with unconnected provisions, coming to discuss fragmentary arrangements. That is the first point I would like to make. The second concerns the philosophy of the bill, which the common sense really fails to understand. In order to pursue this foreign policy and ensure security issues, we must have a modern operational mechanism, the best possible coordination and cooperation of individual state services and bodies involved. Here too, there is a provision which we must pay little attention to, and which we have identified in the discussion procedure in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Centre for Analysis and Planning. We say yes to experts, but not to substituting diplomats. There is a clear effort to reduce diplomatic service and to cover positions by experts, universities or researchers from the university community. Do a separate legal service while the needs of the Ministry can be met by existing staff. The bill provides for the recruitment of four legal persons. It should be noted that the representatives of the Special Legal Service were asked what the legislative work of the Ministry is - because we are unable to find it - and they said that the legislative work of the Ministry in question was essentially limited to the sanctions of agreements and other legal texts. There are, of course, other provisions in the draft law which have the same logic and which do not agree with us, that is to say, a clear attempt to settle dates, recruitment procedures with too many questions, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, it is understood that this bill does not address any essential need for the foreign and security sector. It adds nothing to these two critical areas that I have mentioned. I don't think he even touches them. It would really be useful to accept the proposal of Officerial Response and to discuss the substance of what we have tabled and to discuss the establishment of the National Security Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u80	Mr Megloudakas, because I had announced the two colleagues, you will receive immediately after the speech as a parliamentary representative. The next speaker is Mrs Vayonakis, who has mutually transferred with Mrs Triantafyllou. Mrs Vagonakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today concerning the amendment of the Code of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs may not solve radically and definitively the problems of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but it certainly lays the foundations for a solution to problems relating to the requirements of the current situation, allows modernization and adaptation to European directives, while at the same time it answers and gives solutions to a democratic process which has for years been afflicting the press and society. It is characteristic that during the debate with institutions and collectives in the committee responsible, it has been said that institutional and modernist change has been necessary for years in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Also, during the same debate, the arrangements proposed by this bill were accepted by the majority of the bodies. Ladies and gentlemen, since reading the bill, it is inconsistent to conclude that there is a basic and extremely simple thought at its core, namely the need to reorganise the Ministry's Agency and enrichment and documentation with data, for predictions and production of political thought, about the many complex problems that concern our planet and our agitated wider region. It is important that Greece, within the international and regional environment in which it is located, has a pool of ideas, strategies and processes. The Minister said attributes in his speech that we need to develop the scientificity of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and with this observation I fully agree. From this point of view, both the establishment of the Centre for Analysis and Planning (CSF) and the Scientific Council are absolutely essential. In particular, the Scientific Council, which is an advisory body for international and European law matters of major importance, will be an institutionalised permanent body consisting of qualified legal officials of special prestige. In view of the above, and in contrast to the representative of the New Democracy, who told us in the committee that his party would abolish this council if he came to power, I believe that the Scientific Council is required. And I stress again that most of the institutions were positive in this respect. The second point I would like to welcome is the control of sinful secret funds from Parliament, as is introduced into this bill and on the basis of the legislative improvement submitted by the Ministry. I believe that there are ways of ensuring democratic control of funds and transparency on the one hand, and at the same time, necessary confidentiality, on the other. However, the main point for me - and I think this is about the legislative improvements - is the need to control the funds from the House. This is the best response to society's demand for control over these funds. I would like to point out here that the relevant committee is considering the amount of funds that this House will control. And I would remind you that the Minister assures us that the EUR 25 000 plaque covers 90% with 95% of the secret funds. So I think that the regulation that is being promoted is a good start. From there on, the opposition also argues that the creation of the new structures proposed by the bill is for the recruitment of day-to-days. We are talking about about ten people, perhaps more - though, around there is - on the basis of what the Minister said. And I would remind you that the Greek Centre for European Studies (EKEM) which was set up in the past and which has been abolished by this bill - something that we all agree - previously employed twenty-two employees and of what has been heard in committee, has wasted enough resources. In fact today seven of these workers have still not been repaid since 2012. It is a pretext - and I think we all support it - that these workers have to get their jobs. I would like to remind you, however, that, as they have said, only in the last two years, they have started to take back some of the debtors, in fact, most of them. I hope that everyone will be paid soon. In view of all this, I think that there is a reasoned use of resources for structures that are absolutely necessary today in order to best and most effective our foreign policy. And I think that the criticism from the standpoint of counter-population is unjust. In conclusion, this bill, which can "walk" with the organization that is being processed by a particular group of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, will provide solutions to the problems that are not only currently being addressed but also over time by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Many of us have raised the issue of 'why we do not expect the creation of the organization', accusing us of fragmenting regulations. However, given that neither the Ministry nor those responsible who came to the committee and are members are incapable of responding when the organization will be ready, while the challenges at foreign policy are great, the need for urgent documentation, the enrichment of our arguments and the need for strategies and processes are necessary. I would urge you to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u82	Mr Stavros Kalafatis, the de-Thessaloniki, the Nymph of Thermaikos - and everything else you want to say - has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u83	Nothing else.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u84	Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u85	Be well, Mr. President. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the draft law under discussion, we must respond to two main and crucial issues. These are two questions that need to be addressed primarily. First of all, is there an urgent need to reform the office of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? Secondly, do the proposed modifications satisfy this need and to what extent? The answer to the first question is unreservedly positive. Yes, it is called for the institutional modernisation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the reorganisation and reform of it radically so that it becomes more effective and can rapidly and functionally meet the new challenges and demands of a rapidly changing international environment. However, the answer to the second question cannot be positive. No, the proposed changes do not satisfy that purpose. They cannot contribute positively and constructively to the efforts to modernise the current code of operational organisation of the Ministry, as most attempted interventions are fragmentary, selective, incomplete, suspiciously targeted and working towards purposes that only the Ministry's leadership and the government as a whole perceives. A sincere, serious and substantial amendment of a code of practice governing the structure of the services of Greek foreign policy would require the deposit of a comprehensive, thoroughly studied and clear draft law in all its dimensions. Even now that this bill is before Parliament, we all know the central objective. What is the government trying to achieve with the sum of so many fragmentary arrangements, without a single direction and functional cohesion? To institutionalize our basic foreign policy or dismantle it? To reform and reorganise the ministry's services or make them functionally ineffective by confusing it? To create, in fact, conditions consistently and syntheticly for the Ministry's services to respond effectively to their high mission or to downgrade overall primary structures, such as the diplomatic sector, to fully depreciate the effort to draw up an integrated foreign policy planning? This is directly an unambiguous and unacceptable activity to marginalise the diplomatic sector by setting up new advisory bodies. The effort is moving between total depreciation and political satisfaction of the two sides. The upgrading of the Centre for Analysis and Planning, as it is being attempted, carries the centre of gravity of the formation of the critical decisions by these most deformers - which is not one of the country's worthy diplomatic personnel - and transfers it to a board of experts, which is called upon to reconcile our foreign policy positions. The setting up of a Scientific Board is effectively degrading the Special Legal Service. What is the reason for a new institution, when there is an experienced department of HSY, which effectively covers the area of opinions, support for the positions of the Greek public and the representation before the international courts? Why is the double-paid teacher, as a scientific director of the board, extremely necessary in relation to a diplomacy director who is in existence and is fully aware of the subject matter of his involvement? What is the feasibility behind this approach? The independent Legislative Initiative Office proposed, what will be the subject of further action, in addition to the usual Legislative initiative of the Ministry for the Validation of International Conventions, whose preparation has so far been achieved without problems to justify the need for a new service? The newly created Statistical Office is another case of unexplained energy, as the leadership has still not succeeded in persuading it to be useful, but perhaps for its feasibility, which is no more than a direction or arrangement, if you like, a relatively political one. Gradual classification. The current leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, according to the law of its own Intelligence, as it does everywhere and always in the overall government management, has effectively abolished the self-evident professional rights of the personnel who manage all the services of the Ministry. The Minister of Foreign Affairs' special nature is defended to justify the freezing of the grading evolution of his employees. In principle, each Ministry is a specialist. It's meaningless i.e. the shape. If the Minister suggests that the staff situation of his staff is essentially special, we can inform him that neither the Constitution nor the legal codification that exists in our country nor the special laws governing the employment status of civil servants in general. Really, could the Ministry of National Defence, on the grounds of specialty, create special status for its employees or the Ministry of Finance in a period of economic crisis, at different speeds in terms of the graduation of its employees, on the pretext of the specific nature of the services provided by its employees? Of course not. The Ministry was required by the Resolution of L.4369/2016 and, in particular, by the Opinion of the Legal Council of the State of 12 October 2016, which states that the other civil servants should apply to them, or that there should also be a direct legislative arrangement to apply to the employees of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs the classification status described in the Organisation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs -, to have obtained an immediate grading of its officials. He has not done so. And, unfortunately, this bill does not seem to want to restore the unfair, unequal and discrimination of its officials, which affects their self-just classification. The relevant provisions of the Staff Code must be applied directly to them as they normally apply to other civil servants. The Ministry's leadership is being cut off for the directness of the regulations it proposes and submits, but for this matter it is becoming a brake on the proper functioning of the Ministry's services, enigmaticly and unexplainedly blocked. We invite you to restore this injustice now. The uninterrupted graduation, structure, growth and the general service situation of the officials of the Ministry is their regulated right and is your basic obligation. So, with these remarks, we have to say that this effort on the part of the government is ineffective, it is a bill which does not bring about anything new, makes it difficult for foreign policy to operate, and that is why we are opposed to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u86	Mr Anastassios Megalamoustakas, Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, Mr Anastasios Megalamoustakas. Will you speak from your position, Mr. Comrade?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u87	I will be extremely brief, Mr President, and I do not think I need to come to the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u88	Okay. I put the normal time and you talk as much as you like.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. I think we have shown that the Central Association is a party which, especially on such important and delicate issues as the issues discussed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but also by the Ministry of Defence, we want to have a reason that is constructive and consensual, as we believe that we can only get the best result for our country. In order for this to happen, however, there must be substantial discussion and for the Minister responsible to listen to the views and opinions of all sides of the Greek Parliament, which in some cases - not from this ministry - we have seen that it is not happening. I do not want to repeat what our speaker, Mr Saridis, said in his report. But I would like to focus on an issue arising from this draft law, which I consider to be extremely important. This is the creation of services, offices, agencies, centres and councils. If you really believe and think that these are going to help Greece, then we are with you. However, the government has so far shown, in too many cases, that all this is being founded or set up to help people of the party or government. We hope - and we really have good will to believe you - that this will not happen again. We said that we are positive at first, but we are here to check what is happening, because we do not want this bill to continue with the policy that has been going on so far. We have also heard an old government representative admit his mistakes, as we have seen governments sew and scrap, new governments change everything, and in fact start from the beginning, rather than improve the existing situation. They think that they should change the whole image of the Ministry or the Agency they manage, it is a discovery of the wheel that it is so innovative and shallow that we do not believe it anyway. Like also, I'm afraid that we're going to re-create an organism that's going to interact with someone who's already in existence. We're really here with a positive look to look at what you're doing. That is why we are positive, as I said at the outset. We do not want to repeat mistakes of the past. Example of your own government, I will now give the Office for International and Community Affairs, which is also about you, the General Secretariat of the Government, which has been abolished by means of a merger. It is an office set up in 2010 and by 2015 it had saved the Greek economy from 500 billion. And how did he get away with it? It was an office which was responsible for harmonising our laws with the laws of the European Union, so that we do not have fines. Within five years he took the country from the last place and brought it to second place, between the European countries and you came and abolished it, as a government I mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u90	Did you say 500 billion or 500 million?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u91	Five hundred million, sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u92	Because with 500 billion we would have solved the problem of the memoranda.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u93	With 500 billion, we'd get away with the problem, right?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u94	Six hundred billion has Saras.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u95	No, no, I don't want to be the new Sora.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u96	Correct it in the Minutes. Well, it was wrong by mistake. The world isn't broken.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u97	So you came and abolished such an office. We really hope that the same thing doesn't happen. We'll be here to check it out. I repeated it many times, but that's what we can do. We must finally understand that the national interest is above party interest. I am not saying this personally for you, Minister, but for the way policy has been conducted so far. We've seen the world is indignant. We have seen very well over the last few days handling the issue with the neighbors, but we must not repeat mistakes of the past, really. I don't want to get tired of this House anymore. I think I said what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u98	Hot thanks, Mr. Megalustakas, for shortening time. Listen, now. Two colleagues will speak, Mr Kavada and Mrs Arabatzi. Then, because the Minister will come and close, as I have been informed by the State Secretary, the State Secretary has asked for the floor for ten minutes. And we'll continue right after.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u99	Mr President, I would like to speak before the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u100	Don't be two best friends, Mr. Xydakis. I mean, not now, a State Secretary and a Parliamentary spokesman, but a colleague should be involved. Not that it's forbidden.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u101	After my colleague, I mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u102	Yeah. Come on, Mr. Comrade. Mr Kavvada, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill comes in conditions of uncertainty about the economy and the country's progress. Once again it lies with the back wall, the time to count vice versa, and the assessment that, based on the signature of Mr. Tsipras, he had to be closed a year ago, in the air. Every day it passes, the country is sinking, the business environment is getting worse and the citizens are unable to meet their obligations. Ladies and gentlemen, the resumption of the delays and unreliability of Mr. Tsipras can no longer be tolerated by the Greek economy. The employee, the retired, the unemployed, our young people, the businesses can no longer. The Greek society has no tolerance to live again in the summer of 2015. The government in its attitude not only shows that it does not understand what is happening, but also strengthens the darkest scenarios for Greece for Grexit. And the worst is that these scenarios are unstoppable and cultivated by ministerial mouths. It is clear that the Government of Mr Tsipras is following a policy completely different and the cost of this policy is already paid by the citizens. Gentlemen of the government, you have a strong responsibility, and if anything, we demand that you understand it and stand up to the circumstances. If you cannot, decide one hour before leaving the chair for the good of the whole place. Ladies and gentlemen, I now come to the current draft law amending the codes of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' Agency. The specific provisions for us are clear that they do not serve the objective of better functioning of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Let me briefly explain the reasons: Firstly, there is neither a unity nor a central idea nor a basic philosophy in the bill. We have more to do with a string of various provisions, which do not generally improve the current functioning of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but rather regulate some fragmentary issues, while other essential loose ends are completely outside. Secondly, I would like to stress that the proposal to change the whole organization of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is in the final shape of this period. However, the government suddenly brought this bill by regulating only specific parts of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Agency. Thirdly, the draft law proposes the establishment of new institutions that have proved to be failed in the past. The establishment of new institutions is something that we find very opposing, because they will be an obstacle to the functioning of the service and will enhance the contradictions between the employees' branches of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Fourthly, there is no question of the issue of grading progress which is important and urgent for the administrative, IT and commercial sectors. However, we shall now proceed to the specific provisions: Already in Article 1, which refers to the OAS, the Centre for Analysis and Planning, provides for the involvement of academics in key positions in both the position of the scientific director, together with four scientific partners and the Scientific Council. This article promotes, with regard to diplomats, the field of experts and the academic staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Even with Article 2 and the arrangements for the Scientific Council, there will be a clear deterioration of the special legal service of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which has historically contributed to defending our national interests. It is not clear what the institution will offer, except that it enables you to recruit certain academics, who will, at the same time, retain their place in the university. The legislative initiative office shall be established in Article 3. This is what you hire four lawyers for legislative initiatives by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, mainly concerning sanctions for international conventions and treaties. In addition, with regard to the confidential expenditure referred to in Article 4, I note that our rapporteur, Mr Kumucasos, has tabled a proposal to raise the specific limit you set, in order indeed to ensure the confidentiality of expenditure on extremely important national issues. Another issue that is clandestinely approached in the draft law is age limits. Under the provisions of Article 9 for the age limit, branches of scientific staff of the Special Legal Service, administrative, experts, trade and economic affairs should be added in order to deal with all the officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs themselves. Finally, in Article 14, and with regard to the dismantling of the Greek Centre for European Studies, the EMCDDA, let me stress that a solution needs to be found immediately to pay off the salaries of the EMCDDA staff who remain unpaid. The Centre's debts to natural and legal persons must also be repaid. You have made a commitment, Minister, that they will be paid, and we wish that. But tell us when this is going to happen. Finally, for all these reasons, the New Democracy cannot support this draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u104	I too, Mr. Cavada, for the absolute respect of time. Mrs Fotini Arabatzi, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on today's bill is taking place in a very busy political period, charged by the SYRIZA mud business, which aims to poison political life, but also by the fact, of course, that the country is once again with its backs on the wall, as the assessment is in the air and the Grexit debate unfortunately resurrects both internally and abroad. But even today, at this point in time, through this bill of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, legislate fragmentally and selectively, having of course always on the back of your mind what you have learned very well in the two years of your administration, which is no more than serving the party state, than building a new client state. As can be seen, even from Article 1, the branch of experts from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is clearly favoured with regard to the diplomatic sector. A favourable position is thus found in the Centre for Analysis and Planning, in the KAS, by specific academics, counterparts of the Minister, experts. The position of the Scientific Director of the CDE with responsibility for drawing up and drawing up studies and making recommendations for foreign policy seems to have greater effect than the diplomat's Director. The Scientific Council, as referred to in Article 2, is attempting to degrade the Special Legal Service of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, a service which has historically contributed to defending the country's national interests. It is worth noting that universities which make up the Scientific Council will be rewarded while maintaining their university headquarters. So with just Greek, they'll have two jobs. That is why we are clearly telling you that this provision will be abolished by the New Democracy, because co-responsibility and duplication must finally be abolished. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the first Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs Anastassios Kourakis.]] On the other hand, the establishment of institutions that have proved to be unsuccessful in the past, such as the Scientific Council, finds us vertically opposed. Wheel brake instruments are being created in the uninterrupted operation of the service, a barrier to direct contact with the political leadership with the relevant services. They are also abusive, counterproductive and prejudicial to the branches of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. At the same time, the draft law, in Article 9, approaches the issue of the retirement age limits of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with a lack of equal treatment and equal treatment with other civil servants. This is your legislation even today, where the country is in danger of falling on the rocks, negotiating endlessly and evaluating open, unfortunately, a year now. Because, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, the Prime Minister's statements to the first Minister's Council are still ringing after the remodelling, where he assured both the ministers, of course, and, above all, what matters - the Greek citizens - that the assessment will be closed on 6 December and that is why the ministers should be overdue so that they are all ready on time. Because the statements made by the Minister of Finance, Mr Tsakalotou, in this House several times, with a very dramatic tone, are still in my ears that the evaluation must be completed by the end of 1916, because otherwise things will be very dark for the country. Because the Prime Minister's earlier statements are still in my ears, that this government and this House are not going to vote on any further measures. Of course, as has repeatedly been proven in the past, since 2015, all these statements by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs need just a few months or just a few weeks to be disproved. That is why, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, the agony of all of us, not only the anguish of the Members of the New Democracy and the Members of the Anti-Population Parliament, but above all the anguish among every Greek citizen, the anxiety about where you are driving the country, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. And your convenient answer "we will not leave the country to the willing" is now outdated. He's not selling. And as Mr. Tsipras used to say, your story no longer has a dragon. And that is why you have to give a clear, honest answer about what is going to happen in the country in the next few days and months. Because uncertainty breaks the economy, breaks the market, breaks everyone. Just take a look at the yields of Greek bonds today, after yesterday's meeting of the International Monetary Fund, to understand how difficult it is to achieve the goals of the 2017 budget and how dreamy it seems, unfortunately, that the country should go out to the markets, even in the course of this year. All this gray, the mute political atmosphere, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, is a result of your own policy, it is a result of your own failures, it is a result of your own unreliability, it is a result of your own delays. Whatever is outrageous, whatever is unreasonable, whatever the lenders are asking for, it has your own stamp. It's Tsipras meters. The account goes up and up and up, only because of your own policies. And it has become a joke now the policy solution strategy of the problems, which in the end has only one end: the Vaterlo for the country, the 'yes' to everything that burdens the citizens with additional measures and taxes. And it is regrettable for all of you that in front of this political deadlock, where you are, you are attacking the mud on the fan, in order to answer your political opponents, while at the same time refusing to give convincing answers about where the Prime Minister is traveling and who is meeting, secretly, privately and secretly. At the same time, you afflict the Greek people with the thousands of railroads of paranoia for EKA that they receive today, with the incredible mistakes and inaccuracies that will be called upon to pay free professionals, scientists and farmers. They even come to the point, ladies and gentlemen, that these notes should count as a time of insurance the time when the insured were also pupils of primary school. Give it an explanation, then.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u106	You're not on TV. You're in Parliament, talk about the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u107	Read the articles, Mr Xydakis, and not let the government go out with the government representative attempting to involve the House and to slander on an unexistent subject, which concerns the onus of the Chief of Staff. Ladies and gentlemen, panic is always a bad policy adviser, much more absolute panic from which you hold. That is why the New Democracy is asking for elections. Because we don't care about your political ending, but we care not to end the country with you. Obviously, you have no quarrel in the downhill that you lead to the cliff that you have led to fall along with the country. But we won't let you dismantle everything. Neither we nor the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Arabatzis. Let me remind everyone that under Rule 66 of the Rules of Procedure the speaker cannot move away from the matter under discussion. It is something that all colleagues in this House are unfortunately doing. I would ask that we be consistent with this article. It helps the parliamentary procedure. We're moving on. Parliamentary spokesman of SYRIZA, Nikos Xydakis, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr President. I am not almost surprised by the style and monotonous trophy of the Members of the Major Antipolitics. I am a little surprised by the lack of arguments and the repetition of stereotypes. I am also surprised by this blind conviction that all matters will be resolved with the elections and the coming of the Messiah. As if it had not been for seven years in an historic adventure, as if there had been no other governments that led the country to this historic adventure - not only on its own responsibility, there are external factors. On the contrary, all the preparation of the weaknesses and the historic vortex in which the country was found is due to the two-year rule of SYRIZA, two successive governments and three elections. I do not believe that some of my fellow Members, who have an experience, therefore also a subtle responsibility, can address their fellow citizens with that language, with this hypocrisy, with this shallowness. I also wonder, sometimes with colleagues from PASOK, the other opposition party, for the vigour, the intent way in which they are expressed even at the impossibility of the government, but also in general for the institution of executive power and for the person of the Prime Minister. I am thinking, however, that these fellow Members, like all of us, have a past, have a history, have been tested at the wheel of the country and at the governance and discipline of the people, which is being tested now, and we all have our future, with other people in common, with other natives, with other completely conflicting ones. Some colleagues - because we have seen it in the last few weeks in the House - playing the game with the chairs, preparing to move to the chairs, ensuring a place on a list, competing someone else in a constituency. And all this is called national responsibility and historical awareness. Let us close this introduction and get into the bill that no one has said anything essential. I appreciate the effort made by my colleague Mr Kumucasos to make a composition on a subject, but I am sad at the very last moment in plenary to withdraw it and to put it as a thought to the handling of expenditure. A composition could be found. As far as the organism is concerned, it will come. Questions about the agencies should be addressed, at least in the near future, to the Ministries' organizations established by the Samaras Government in the summer of the '14s, when within two or three months all the ministries had changed, with a minimum of study and, above all, a rather disgraceful transitional arrangement, with which general managers and directors were defined by people outside of all evaluations. And people from the number "18" or "12" of the annual evaluation were found to become general managers. Unfortunately, almost all these general directors are still in place. This is the partisan state that you have made, unfortunately and fortunately, because it is a lesson of democratic ethos - we have not broken it down with the same violence that you have made. These are the organisations you voted on and were then Minister for Administrative Reform, Mr Mitsotakis. That was the merits and assessments you are engaged in and for which you are now being cut off. You also said that they are spreading away, that the costs are growing. Perhaps I have the least ministerial experience of those who are present here, but I have something to say: in the duties of the Prime Minister who also took part in the presidency's missions, what surprised me was the very tight programme, the almost exhaustive programme, the least possible, the zero costs and the few representatives of the missions. I have to remind you, however, that a mission in New Democracy Minister at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was set up in New York with a hundred and ten persons.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u110	It's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u111	It's not like that. All right, give an explanation. I also have to say that I have heard - and disprove me - that even in the governments of judgment there were ministers travelling with guards and the procurers going and hanging their costumes in the hotel. My experience is that our travel abroad, of the Ministers, as far as I know, is with one or two people escorted: the managers of the political office, the director of the diplomatic office or some emergency. There are journeys that we have made on our own as ministers, without any escorts. Of course, the ministers of the past government, who have had armies of posters and special advisers and huge expenditures, are aware of. Let's not make comparisons. We must not, because we must not be constantly involved in the past. The hard future is pulling us forward. A last reminder of the criticality of the situations that we are going through: The Ministry of Foreign Affairs needs think tank. Everyone who has even been there knows about it or talked about it. The establishment of this instrument, the Centre for Analysis and Planning, is, in fact, not something new, something that is not but a service, an instrument that had been disconnected and received from the record and the work of another supervised centre, the EMCDDA, which came to its crew next year, has fulfilled its mission and is ending. There was no flaw in the case of the EMCDDA. The EMCDDA fell and declined before our own government. Instead, in our governance, we saw the people who were invented and who had to pay them for three years, we have taken care of and acted, money was disbursed, and now the most correct and human arrangement is made. That should have been understood by those who know and not say things that do not apply. The last president appointed, the retired ambassador, Mr Kundumas, said that "in two instalments we received a sufficient amount to settle some debts". What's pending will be settled soon. This is therefore the purpose of the new situation which arises in Europe, which I do not see discussed here by the other spokesmen of the Opposition, particularly the Greater One, who think in a way, how to satisfy this impeccable passion for power. Europe is transforming and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs must be able to produce thought, work, and produce all political world and Parliament, and the intellectual elites and elites that produce publicity and produce moral publicity. Last week at the summit in Malta, at the European Council, it was placed by the founders of the European Union for the first time - that is, both from Germany and from France and from the Benelux countries and from Italy, which were the founding core of the European Union sixty years ago - a matter of many speeds. So this is what we will have to face as a political world and as a spiritual elite: what is the position of Greece in this changing world. It has also been announced that at the next formal meeting of Europe for the sixty years from the Treaty of Rome, in Rome next month, we will also have new elements, announcements and plans. Such procedures may start, they may not start. However, when they're announced, we're going to do something, and we know it might take years. This is the work of all of us - and not of the voices - to think about the future, to think about who we are and where we are, and not about the fierceness of the confrontations, the coconuts and the shallow criticisms on matters for which Members sometimes have studied, to create a opposition tone, to speak without having dealt with, to have deepened, to have studied. Instead, they prefer to make a general political speech, which is at the edge of a television prominence. There have also been comments from other parties and other colleagues, who have been involved in what we are discussing. We still have a chance, the Minister is here. And we from the Communism have called on the Minister to give compositions. It's here and let's talk. But always think about what responsibility you are talking about in relation to a world that suffers, against a world waiting for messages, waiting for the leadership to show virtues of excesses and composition, and what we say in this Step. Thank you very much, Mr President. And I thank my colleagues too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr Xydakis, and the consistency in time. Mr Ioannis Amanatidis has the floor. Here, Mr Amanatidis, you have the floor for five minutes, with a tolerance. I would ask you to be brief, and I say this because the Minister has already spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr President. I watch the anxiety especially of the rapporteurs and speakers, but also of the parliamentary representatives of the parties, to find a way to avoid voting on the consensual bill, since many of the articles agree and in principle agree. Because there's a start. It is not compulsory to testify in the first place and you know that very well. If you read the explanatory statement, you will understand why the provisions are coming. No one said it was the whole bill. The same Minister said it was a preamble. Where does it become necessary? First of all, it's not sudden because I heard things. A lot of things have been heard here in the Chamber here, which do not actually respond. Sudden. "Since you've been saying something that's been posted for a year, for example. "Departmental" you do not say one who from the outset tells you that there are special provisions, which need to be regulated because the needs, the necessities, the multi-dimensional and multi-level foreign policy, which is currently being conducted and the needs of the world. The second need, which the institutions have told you, is that we need to harmonise ourselves with European directives, otherwise the country will have fines. Third need: injustices and regulations that had to go in. So in these three here, there's a distraction? Do you have anything else to suggest beyond that? For example, I would like to know whether the same articles you are now voting against on the grounds that they are not on a more general basis would be voted on if a more general one were to come. For me that matters. I have heard other words, such as'suspect', 'dangerous','summers'. The most good thing is to say directly "we want to destroy", that is, you want to destroy and that everything is part of an opposition rhetoric, despite all the expressions you say, the innocent, "what we want to do, we do, we do, we do, we do, we do, we do, but it is, it is fragmentary, it is suspicious, it makes rhetoric". There have been many arguments. At first it was a ‘appointment army’. And when the evidence came about how many places are being abolished and how many are being created, you got them back. Now there is a new argument that there is a dimension between diplomats and experts. It's not like that. Nor did the bodies themselves put it at the hearing. So we would ask you in such bills to have a much better attitude. Also, you deliberately confuse what CIA does, what the Scientific Council does and what the Legal Work Office does. It's done on purpose. So the CSCE is doing research, documentation, in order to prepare the studies, as is the case in the large states. The Scientific Council will not deal with the legal requirements of the HS. And it sounded bad. HSY said its own work within the committee - read it - not the way you carried it here. It will therefore not deal with the legalities of the HSY on European issues and international conventions. The Scientific Council will deal more with the establishment of the legal strategy. So it seems clear that the roles of the Scientific Council, the CSCE and the HS do seem to be clear. He heard about the Office of Legislative Initiative and wondered what he would do, it was said that he does not have the Ministry of Legislative Affairs, etc. For anyone who reads Article 3, the Office for Legislative Initiative has thirteen responsibilities. Do you want me to read them again? And you're asking us what this Legislative Initiative Office will do? If that's possible! It's in front of you. Read it. He has thirteen responsibilities. For the EMCDDA, the money will be provided. It's a commitment, we've said it. There's nothing else I need to say. But I would like to say one more thing. Mr. Constantinople tried to raise an issue of unconstitutionality. Look. Reading the report of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, it reads: "Problems are born in terms of its constitutionality, the article, and so forth". Indeed, there is concern and there is a decision opposite to the Council of State, which I invoke, according to which what it says can be done, which is why the Scientific Committee is talking about reflection and not about anything else. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing on several occasions.]] Mr President, thank you for your tolerance. But what makes me very impressed, ladies and gentlemen, is that with the legislative improvement, with which, beyond transparency, leaks and secrecy are also guaranteed, there is still a reaction. I therefore call on the New Democracy, too, to vote for this article. I would like to give two answers for Mr Carras, and I shall finish. The decision to represent the staff member shall be taken by the Minister. Obviously the Minister for Foreign Affairs will not take a decision against the Ministry's interests. Since Mr Carras is legal, however, I would like to say to him that, as I am aware, the Legal Council of the State cannot represent against the public something which would be a banned, introverted action. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has a great legislative initiative in front of it and it is the change in the organization of the Ministry. At the same time, however, as has been said, it is the bill for the Institute of Venice, it is the bill for the Council of De-Democrat Hellenism and it is the bill for the Translation Service. We believe that, in the foreign policy areas and especially in such a policy, it does not fit into a micro-policy, nor is it good for the opposition to appear that many of its Members have not even read the bill. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr Giannis Amanatidis. The Parliamentary spokesman for the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u115	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to begin with what Mr Kotzias and Mr Xydakis said. They said that the world is transforming, we need to think about who we are and where we're going. It's a world of globalisation and we should be inside. So what are you telling us now? That we need to live in a globalised environment and follow the tactics of the great Soros of NGOs with open society? That's what you said. Globalization, you said. And if we look a little at the way things are going and what's happening right now in the world, the most warring of globalisation is the new planetary commander, Donald Trump. And don't forget Teresa May, the British Prime Minister, who talked about what he was talking about? For border control, illegal immigration control, trade control with the famous British Brexit, which many people said would collapse everything, etc. In fact, anyone who sees the situation will see that the pound rises and sees that the trade balance remains stable and has growth trends. We also need to see who the supporters of globalisation are now. China and Germany, these two countries have remained. These two countries are trying to talk about globalisation and to support it. People change, and we see it. We'll have developments very soon. In March we have the elections in the Netherlands, then we will have the German elections, France is preparing. And we will soon see too many changes and developments in Europe. Many say England was the beginning. In England right now, the climate that exists is that we have been rid of it. And - not least - they had no euros, they had their own currency. We must also not forget that all this nice festival of globalisation in Soros and the rest of the world is aimed at NGOs, which are a very big, nice and good business - we have said it and have proved it too many times - and which all parties support. NGOs are all in favour of them. For example, PRAKSIS is supported by EMU. We must not forget that and what EMU tried to do together with PRAKSIS in schools to bring children and others. We saw in Greek a few days ago to forbid the Greek Minister - whatever our opinion of Mr Mousala, we cannot overlook the fact that he is the Greek Minister - some people who say that they are solidarity, enter the Greek and of course shout that "we are doing the task here". And here we have some questions. Who are they and what about them? Where are they financed and what happens? Will anyone be arrested, see where the money comes from? We shall also proceed to the negotiations. All the Memorandum parties: Do you think that it is of interest to the Greek at the moment what is going on in the negotiation? Do you think he cares if you go to a fourth memorial, if the negotiation succeeds and what happens? At the moment, the Greek man is looking, what he cares about is how he survives, how he will spend the next day. The Bureau of Parliament shall speak of a national currency or a fourth Memorandum. So with regard to all the things that existed and were being heard and said all this time, we are finally on our way toward a fourth memorandum. And of course, all this will be done by Germany so that it can control our country. He continued, continued, and will continue, as long as the memorandum is in place, to a maximum extent control over us. ‘CAPITAL ECONOMICS’ provides for the collapse of the euro. But no channel, no big means of all that systemically has spoken, nothing has been said. And we have New Democracy, what does it say? We will not vote for any measure. We will vote against and fight it all. But all the measures that you are saying at the moment will be voting against, that is, the fourth memorandum - if it comes - of SYRIZA or the negotiating measures, you have voted on them in August 2015. The OECD toolbox that you say you will vote against, you will, you will show, all of this you have voted in August 2015 and before 2013 with Samaras. So let's leave the fairy tales and the so-called retaliation. Another issue of the day, basically, was the alleged crisis in Imia, something that Mr Amanatidis, Mr Vitsas, Mr Kammenos - some names I mention - said there are no 'grey zones'. And I think we all agree, I don't think anyone else needs to say something about it. I read Mr. Vitch's first statement about this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u116	Kumucasakus said that first.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u117	Let us not talk now about 'grey belts' and who said it first and what he did. Why was it forbidden in New Democracy to go up to Imia? Can we go to Imia right now? Mr. Kammenos went with a helicopter. Can we go up? Our Chief last week, within Ethiopia, told us to go National Representation to raise a flag in Imia. Can we do that? Or - as New Democracy was saying at some point - not to raise the tone so that we do not give footprints? Can't we exercise our sovereign rights? Is that what you're telling us? Is that a foreign policy? Because Mr. Kammenos said this is our house. If it's our house, let's go, guys. How'd we go to Kastelorizo? That's how we go there. Does anyone have a problem? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Proposal to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and to the Ministry of National Defence: To go National Representation in Imia, to resolve the issue with the Turcomogols who have been pilgrimized for so many years and so many years all these governments have done nothing. All these years, nothing has happened with this thing. And we let them play ball on our field right now. Some political leaders came out and said to take the matter to The Hague. The one who said it or -- don't say it-- stupid is a traitor. There's no other way. Are we going to tell the International Court of The Hague "Take them" on our own territory? Are we serious? Let them read just before they talk. Mr Kotzia, you participated in the European Union's Foreign Affairs Council. I would like to ask you to provide information on the issues. Because all the issues with the Turks' challenges fell. Did you refer to this matter? And if you were mentioned, what did they say? We see no announcement from NATO, from our friends, NATO, that you brought it and sat us in the Aegean Sea. So he's here, so? Have there been any flows? Has the Turkish smugglers stopped bringing people? No, no, nothing. You told us about FRONTEX. Right now, FRONTEX - another nice business! - charters three ships - it is a notice that came out a few days ago from FRONTEX headquarters in Poland - from Chios, Mytilini and Samos - if I remember correctly - to transfer people to the Asia Minor coasts. It clearly photographs what he'll carry. It is a hundred people's capacity and it will give these people a litre of water, a juice and a sandwich without pork. That's to know that nothing falls down, we're learning everything and we're seeing it all. Because all this - I'm saying again - is a business. Even for FRONTEX this is a business. Finally, I shall end with Article 4 and with a small comment on expenditure under EUR 25 000. Do you remember before that he had opened a very big scandal with the PASOK at Giorgakis Papandreou, with the black funds, with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and all the secret funds? Do you remember that? I think the whole world remembers it. They were found insane amounts without anyone knowing where they've gone. The Navy and the Armed Forces, as we know, give some direct assignments. For small sums no longer needs approval, only an update is made so that there can be one move and the programmes run. So since you say that you want transparency, does this also have to be done for small amounts? And we are not saying now that the parties in this House should be informed. Let the political leaders and the President of Parliament be informed, so that we can all know where this money is going. I close with a big subject which concerns a lot of people and which I do not know if it has reached your ears. It is about the effort that has been made to bring the Reverend Metropolitan of Piraeus Seraphim and also about the monastery of Entrepreneur. What we see and what all of the Greek society says is that your purpose is not what they say or what they are doing, what they are going to do, but you want to find a metropolitan with handcuffs, humiliate him, find them sacred, shrined with handcuffs, humiliate them and thus pass all the plans of globalisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u118	Now, after the parliamentary representatives, we are on the list of speakers. Mr Athanasios Davakis, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u119	I have listened with caution, ladies and gentlemen, the dear State Secretary for Foreign Affairs, Mr Amanatidis, to resign from us for the severe criticism we have had in this bill. I believe that the criticism of the New Democracy, both by the rapporteur and by the chosen colleague Mr Kefaloyannis, as a Parliamentary representative, was both reasoned and concrete and, as the rapporteur, Mr Koumoutsaskos, quite rightly said, on concrete, tangible evidence and evidence. Reading, Minister, the report of the Scientific Agency you will see that - by commenting on Article 2(4) - the Minister is authorised to regulate by decision of the Scientific Council's internal organisation and functioning - you will of course have read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u120	Mr. Amanatidis answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u121	I didn't hear it. He continues and states that in the light of the above, which makes a legal thinking, reflection is born in terms of constitutionality. In other words, there are also constitutional issues raised.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u122	There is a decision of the CoR on this. What should we do, not apply it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u123	Okay. Not to apply them. After all, you have special sympathy with the decisions of the CoR, which are well known.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u124	You are ignoring the decision of the HR.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u125	When we hear STE and SYRIZA, you realize that a chill is passing through the back of SYRIZA’s colleagues. It is time for you and the Greek people to suffer too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u126	They've suffered a lot of governments. Respect and awe to the institutions!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u127	That's right, respect for the institutions. You should tell Mr. Pappa, who says things. Anyway. The general conclusion, which is drawn by someone who is in good faith in this legislation, is that the government once again chose to follow the path of semimeters and easy solutions. He chose to give a wide sense of reformist activity rather than proceed to final regulation and substantial areas. If he had taken due care of it, this draft law would have been a golden opportunity, Minister, to resolve critical issues and to complete it for many years, the necessary modernisation of the foreign ministry's structures. These are issues which we have seen genuinely from the hearing of bodies in committee, which these people, far from politics, if you wish, or at least a little far from politics, have described precisely the surrounding atmosphere and the structural problems facing the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. For example, a crucial issue that this bill could resolve is that of the ranking of officials from the administrative, IT and commercial followers of the Ministry. The absence of regulation on this issue has caused considerable problems, some of which relate to a letter from the representatives of officials, which I shall be tabling in the Minutes. The issue is mature and there is a clear need for legislative intervention, as is seen from the well-known decision of the Council of State, which I am also presenting in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u128	Have you read it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u129	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u130	He's rescinding your argument.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u131	No, you're wrong. We can talk about it, but I don't have time. The question arises is simple: why is the political leadership delaying the taking of a legislative initiative to regulate the ranking of officials? The matter has been pending for several months, while, like the Minister himself - and Mr Amanatidis - mentioned during the debate in committee, today's bill has been in consultation since May. The absence from the text of clear arrangements on the subject raises questions about the government's political will and management capacity in implementing laws that it has adopted. In addition to the absence of regulation on this important issue, an indication of the irrational approach and the sloppyness with which the bill we are discussing was designed is the fact that many arrangements involve the risk of creating malfunctions, overlapping or competition between executives and the various branches, while in several respects the justification behind the creation of new bureaucratic structures is an incomplete sight. As referred to in Article 1, at the Centre for Analysis and Planning, it is a position of director to be appointed for three years by a university professor appointed directly by you, Minister. It also provides for positions of regular scientific associates, again university professors or researchers, who are selected by a three-member committee following a call. However, the bill lacks any reference to a clear division of responsibilities and responsibilities between the centre, with the new structure, and the expert body. Nor is there any reference to a mechanism for the composition of opinions between these two sections. We also told the committee when Mr Xydakis spoke of a think tank and so on. Who will compose, who will create some specific lines on the issues that will be drawn up by these particular groups of people? I do not call it degradingly, I say it in the sense of forming it. This lack creates the danger either of the centre, the central agency, to return to a situation of general depreciation, which has also been mentioned by a number of representatives of the officials of the Ministry during the hearing, or to create other problems and frictions between the sectors. We'll have rubbing and remember it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u132	Say who said about general depreciation from the employees at the Ministry? What union?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u133	Let me finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u134	Look out, he's going to build a controversy...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u135	Nothing against it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u136	Tell me which union?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u137	Mr President, if Mr Davakis is to finish and then the Minister will answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u138	Minister, Mr. Kefaliannis, can Mr. Davakis...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u139	Mr President, please keep my time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u140	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u141	Say which union?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u142	Minister, he heard. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, please, quiet! Mr. Davakis, we're listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u143	Minister, because I've been in the Chamber for many years...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u144	It was a plea, Mr. Davaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u145	I am not saying this for any other reason, but because I am in the Chamber for many years, I would like to say that what I have cut out from the committee was something that I have mentioned very rationally at the moment and modestly, I would say. Where was the controversy? From what we have said, the fences, the ways in which these entities expressed themselves, we have seen that there is a problem. I think you know that as a central agency member too. A problem that the political leadership should do, should be appropriate to the procedures rather than to alleviate them. That's what I said to you. Now, if you think you should be more specialized when you talk, please express what you have told me. Articles 2 and 3 provide for the creation of two new structures, a scientific board of academics specialising in International Law and a legislative initiative office. Since the Ministry already has a Legal Service, as I said in my speech to the committee, the reasons behind the establishment of the Scientific Council are neither clear nor there is, as in the case of the CSCE, a clear distribution of responsibilities between the Council and the Legal Service or a distinct mechanism of substantial composition between these two institutions. The only relevant point we have on this issue is the response of the government's political leadership, during the debate in the committee, that the Council's task will be to 'grasp the country's legal strategy on the international field', which has probably made things more complicated, rather than to provide substantial information. What does it mean to 'grain a country' legal strategy? This is where we bring, Minister, and you know it, because you have experience of sanctions. I, as Minister of National Defence, signed a contract four years ago in Korea for military co-operation and its ratification came after three and a half years. You realise that there is a splendour of the Legal Service, so that at least these sanctions conventions can be passed and ratified by the House, which is slowing the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to bring them. Mr President, the bill we hold in our hands is a lost opportunity, I believe, to regulate key issues and make substantial reform interventions. It could have been another type of bill, which would actually have a consensus on its positive elements from the New Democracy. Signs and votes of the reformist spectrum, which might have this bill, are some of the arrangements - I mentioned them to the committee, again - which are included in it, such as enlargement, in addition to the French, of all the languages that a candidate diplomat may know as a second foreign language or prediction. It helps a lot of people, and it's positive in the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u146	But please complete your thoughts.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u147	Like the issue of secret funds, which really wants a transparent approach with many, of course, demands, with which we are particularly careful in the future. Instead of approaching with due attention, however, the Government has chosen to limit the objective of this draft law by turning it from an opportunity to substantial intervention in a dilemma which is irrelevant to each other. Mr Amanatidis said earlier that he had the bill and that they were governed by a specific target. When we say'star' to parliamentarians in the bill, we say: We want to build this glass and make the articles so that we can arrange for this specific political choice to be implemented. I would like to refer to the bills which the government has brought in over the last two years, but also to the procedure in which they come. And I am talking about the obsolete amendments, which are constantly appearing. I wonder how no amendments have been made. Do the ministers not know that the plenary is meeting today? Whenever we see another Minister, we'll understand that he's coming for an amendment. All this composes an alpine parliamentary landscape. I have repeatedly asked the President of Parliament to heal it and abolish it. It is unacceptable that what you have complained about - I remember Mrs Constantopoulou - you are doing this today very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u148	Good, Mr. Comrade. Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u149	Today?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u150	Minister, when I say 'today', I mean yours during the term of office. That's what I mean. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u151	My term?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr. Davaki. Mr Anastasios Publicsakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you are bringing to Parliament the draft law on the Code of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is more than a problem. It is clear that you are making a fragmentary, but also a selective attempt to resolve issues which are a direct priority for you. One might argue that you are very sympathetic to academic staff, to filling out positions on the Scientific Council, even with wide responsibilities from university professors to such an extent, which is evident in some cases, if necessary, to the diplomatic sector, by recognising the services offered over time by Greek diplomats in the promotion of Greek positions. We all pay particular tribute to them. On the other hand, you are creating a double-deposit scheme, as a valid journalist said today, as the scientists who make up it will also maintain their university seat. It would be very interesting, if it were voted on, not to anticipate compensation. Personally, I believe that it will give you prestige, but certainly the Scientific Council that is also being voted on. If you have, Minister, as I have said to the Deputy Secretary of State at the committee responsible, will you not send them to the Civil Affairs Department in Thrace, which is highly subordinated? It would be advisable to set up a joint composition council in Thrace, which will examine our vulnerabilities, our problems and other issues relating to diplomacy. In this way you will show, as we have discussed, that you are interested in the specific service, which has been left with a consul and with few partners, even when the consulate of the neighbouring country in Komotini demonstrates in breach of international law special and irritating mobility, while you have to limit yourself to its purely consular tasks, as provided for by the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations. Our President and the whole of the New Democracy have called for the establishment of the National Security Council, an instrument necessary for policy-making and crisis response. On the occasion of today's debate, however, I should like to refer to important issues relating to your ministry, those relating to our relations with the neighbouring country, Turkey. And I think it would be advisable, when you have your cooperation, to promote issues, which arise and problems due to proximity, such as zoonoses, such as intercurrent flooding phenomena, such as sprays that are not on the other side, such as the management of water tumors in the Ivailgrad dams as far as the neighbouring country is concerned in Bulgaria. In fact, because of the weather that our region has faced, they were all nervous about what can happen again because of the waterlines, which the neighbouring country with its companies does not respect as much as it should, because the Evros catchment area is always dangerous. Also, I'd like to ask you to move the police liaison. It is an institution that really has been established through time in the consciousness of all the authorities of the Greek state and especially of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and I believe that its evolution into a police follow-up, in correspondence with those of the Ministry of National Defence, will also be a recognition, but at the same time you will also give them wings to fly in the context of this activity. I have often said that Katechaki with its services is a small State Secretary for Foreign Affairs, because now that you are leading the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, you understand what these services are being offered through the channels that we have created. Because the financial cost is minimal, it would be a brave act, since we asked our rapporteur, Mr Kumucako, and the committee responsible, and it is indeed a timely request both from PDOXIA and from POSY. It is worth stressing that we currently have ten officers in equal embassies abroad. During my leadership, we had thirty-nine. And, indeed, the dowry they brought, returning three years abroad and dealing with the issues that the Greek state and the Greek society have dealt with and through these familiarities, was particularly useful in carrying out their duties. I think, Minister, that you have the opportunity to do so, and if you do not, since you did not include it in the law that is being passed, I hope you will do so another time, but it is enough to commit yourself in this direction today, because many of us in the House of Greek Police are following the debate this evening and they know that I would put it as a proposal in the Greek Parliament as well. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, General. Professor Costas Dousina, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Mr President. I came back today at dawn from London and I don't feel very well. I would not, therefore, speak, but I think it is necessary to write in the Minutes an answer to an appalling attack earlier against Mr. Christos Rosakis. I don't know Mr. Rosaki personally. I have read his work, I have read decisions of the Court of Human Rights in which he has been Vice-President. This is one of the most important Greek law-makers and certainly one of the two Greek law-makers, who reached the highest ranks, in the Bureau of the most important international courts. It must therefore be written in the Minutes that this House does not accept these attacks. The attacks were related to decisions to which Mr Rosakis had participated and which went against Greece on minority issues. This is human rights. Human rights exist to support minorities, not the majority. The majority vote, they have their representatives in the House, their parties and they support their interests. We needed human rights precisely to defend minorities. But I'll tell you something else. The greatest American judge in the 20th century, Oliver Vendell Holmes, who was, of course, a legal philosopher, told his students when he taught that when you go to court many times it is better to find out what the judge had or whether he had any trouble with his wife the other night than to read the previous and the laws. What did Oliver Holmes mean? He meant, as we know, and as we have seen with the recent decisions of the S.H.E., that in too many difficult legal, judicial cases there is no proper legal answer. Therefore personal dispositions, feelings, ideology, views on judges' aesthetics are important. In this sense, then, you must have someone in a body that advises you, who knows personally and judges, but other important factors of international law, of international policy, are something that is extremely important. I'd say I wish we had more Rosakis get them Kojis to put them in his committee. But now I have to return very quickly to the issues that concern us today and say that as committee chairman - I have been honoured by the House to have elected chairman of the committee - and on this subject, but also in general, we have - I think it succeeded in having a good debate, a very mild and creative approach to the issues that we have many times to find. In this sense, I think it is somewhat unnecessarily inappropriate now to discuss the regulation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and to deal with the question of evaluation, etc. Anyway... In many respects, therefore, the accusation that it does not have a start has no philosophy of this bill, and also a second of favorableness, rumours, appointments of days, etc. was heard. As far as the second one is concerned, I think it has been answered. As I told you, if it were Mr Rosakis and the same legal professors entering the Scientific Council, I wish we could have more. And, of course, neither Mr Rosakis nor most of the professors of Public Law and International Law I know are followers of SYRIZA. Isn't that right? They are people who belong to the general democratic area. They're not SYRIZA fans. So it is not that here Mr. Kotzias or anyone else is going to promote the children of SYRIZA, say. But there is philosophy, ladies and gentlemen. It's not like you said without principle or cohesive. I'll tell you the philosophy as I see it. I imagine the Minister will see her that way. It is part of the obligation that the government here has and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and, more generally, the creation of a normal state, a state which is in compliance with the rule of law, which is effective and which is up-to-date. In this sense it will also be the government's blasphemy. From what you're telling us, we're going to leave fast. If we build up institutions, if we make an institutional foundation in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but also in the entire state organization, which creates those groups, those institutions, as you say, which will be able in a process of five, ten years' time to create us a normal state that we do not have at the moment, then that is what SYRIZA's fascination and very well does. So the three institutions that are made, the CSCE, the Scientific Council and the institution around the secret funds, are not only necessary, but I think it is our central obligation to do that. As I told you, I was in England, where I met English and Irish and academics and politicians. At the moment, my Irish colleagues have told me that Ireland, apart from two think tanks which it has in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, has entrusted three more think tanks, externally, to examine the effects of Brexit on Ireland. Of course, Ireland is one of the countries with the greatest problem and that makes sense. What do we do? And I heard Mr Kotzia, who is also a professor, who spoke about globalisation, fragmentation, the third revolution, industrial revolution, the fourth robots, etc. At the moment, the first is that we are in a state of emergency and is not much discussed in Greece. At the moment the European Union is going through an existential crisis. At the moment the concept of the West as we knew it, with America in the head, is in decline. The protectionism and isolation of Mr Trump, as they appear at the moment and in public, through statements by himself and his associates, give the impression that those who have stabilised the world over the last forty-five years - certainly the last thirty years after 1989 - have been slowly falling apart. So do we not have to discuss this and find the best people, Greeks and foreigners, come to give us advice? I think that this is what this measure is all about. And I have to say to my dear colleagues - and to Mr Kefaliannis and Mr Koumouchakos - whom we have worked with on the work of the committee, that if we did not have this great controversy on other issues - not on the issues of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and on the issues of our committee - I think we would have agreed very much, because the proposals you made were serious, important, proposals that had to be taken into account. And we should see if we can find them. But when you at the same time tell us that you are against the principle and accept nothing, you understand that you are creating a defensive mood on our side too. So while we can find them, while together we can respond to these enormous challenges that Greece, Europe and the world are facing at the moment, we are in a reasonable micropolitical confrontation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u156	Thank you to SYRIZA MP, Professor Dousina. I will now give the floor to the last speaker of today's draft law, then to the rapporteurs for their dentistry and finally to the Minister. Before that, however, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organised and operated, fifty students and students and four of their educational sessions from the 3rd General School of Corfu. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Follow the end of the discussion of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs 'Amendment of the Code of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other provisions'. You will have the opportunity to attend three or four more speakers, then the Minister will be closed and we will proceed with the voting process in order to make the state law. Mrs Maria Triantafyllou, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor for nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr President. When you're the last speaker, your role is inappropriate, as almost everything has been said. I'll try to say some things that may not have been heard. I shall begin with the pearls I think the parliamentary representative of the Democratic Integration said. I shall refer, of course, to the pearls of the rapporteur for the Democratic Incorporation within the committee, who considered that he should be involved in falsely - and I say this again, with lies - and with the Minister and Mr Kalomouris, unregulated, to prove what? It was part of his argument about lying. He was told - as he said - that the Minister for Foreign Affairs wishes to prosecute officials with specific institutions. Unregulated, I say again, involved two people. There is a constant effort to manage not just public opinion but common sense. And there's a business army that's developing, expanding false information. There's a tough, lasting struggle between the old and the new. The old refuses to retire and the new hasn't prevailed yet. There are, however, small changes - very small - small experiences that tend to expand. We are still far from losing the logic of profit from the logic of use. But we insist that we be here and try to manage the fates of this country. The bill is the first step towards the reorganisation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, taking into account the country's geostrategic specificities and new data: open fronts of national politics, wars in our region, refugee, tension in Greek-Turkish relations, Turkish provocation, the emergence of new regional forces, border defects and holocausts, the European Union of nationalisms, Cyprus. We live in a particular neighborhood, and if we do not want to land abnormally on the rocky surface of historical and geopolitical data, we must be equipped as best as possible. The criticism that has been heard is mainly about the fact that the bill is a fragmentary, real symposium, does not cure the real problems and, of course, the fact that the proposed provisions are intended to wards the "before". It has been heard that it is a'ministerial ministry'. I mention what the Minister for Foreign Affairs said: Seventy positions before, we replace them with twelve, 120,000 euros now, 1.5 million before. The conclusions are yours. We have also told the committee that this bill is just one part of the foundation puzzle that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will bring in the next few months and not just in its establishment plan. And it is now because of imperative needs relating to the immediate functioning of new institutions that will contribute to the scientific documentation of the Greek positions, the need to harmonise - to adapt to European directives and to the immediate resolution of administrative outstandings of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. As a whole, the bodies that came to the committee agreed on the need for change and also agreed that changes were not very successful in the past. How should these changes be made? With dialogue, of course, with transparency. And we said it needed care for the composition of the bodies, the councils. We said to have another time, which had nothing to do with the duration, to go beyond the duration of a government. We said these changes should build, create a historical memory repository. What's this little piece of legislation doing? It provides for the re-establishment of two main bodies, the Centre for Analysis and Planning - the CSCE - and the Scientific Council. The first will deal with strategic management, analysing developments and proposing long-term solutions. The second will be an advisory body on international and European law matters. The EMCDDA, the Hellenic Centre for European Studies, is hereby repealed. And here to say that since 2012 it was inactive and that they had accumulated debts, which entered a series. In fact, his representatives came, people who are unpaid. And we have heard the ministers say that their payments from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will really be under their care. And for the first time - we must say here that this is a bold step towards democratisation - secret expenditure is being placed under the democratic control of Parliament for sums exceeding EUR 25 000. It is important and must be adopted, it must be welcomed. Nevertheless, I think there was a refusal on the part of the Opposition to support it. There is an interesting position from my dear colleague in the Communist Party. Indeed, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs can be a tool - it is a tool - for foreign policy, but it has entered - and the following question rightly: What foreign policy? Can there be any other content in foreign policy? Is there room for a different foreign policy? So, can foreign policy follow the ideological line of unity and peace among peoples in an imperialist world? Can it invoke and maintain international law, international legality? In my view a small state alone, even if social transformations occur within it, cannot change the status quo, it cannot change itself the nature of the capitalist system or international division. It can, however, insist on a multi-dimensional, peaceful, active policy to insist on the building of regional cooperation plans and on strengthening understanding. Foreign policy cannot under any circumstances be a collection of political positions. We all need to help - and through better regulation of a bill - so that foreign policy can build common interests, alliances and partnerships with countries and international organisations and, of course, we can do everything possible to ensure conditions and conditions for more effective exercise of our sovereign rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u158	Thank you Mrs Maria Triantafyllou, SYRIZA Member. We are now on our way to secondary education. Mr. Koumoucascus has the floor for four minutes. I guess that's enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u159	Tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u160	All right, Mr. Kumucaco, with a tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been heard that we are making a catastrophic opposition here. Who's talking about a catastrophic opposition? Let's start from there. The representatives of a party that has existed, there is in conflict and through conflict, a party that has plucked, polished and divides consciously. And they make complaints that we ask for political change and elections! Who? The ones who a few months after the Samara government was formed, they said they'd throw it down the streets! Look, hypocrisy must one day end. Everything ran these years very quickly. We all remember. Don't pretend you don't remember, then! Finally, the debates on a catastrophic opposition, when they come from a party, which, as I said, is in conflict and through conflict and division. With regard to the issue of elections - because it is coming back - we believe, like 90% of the Greeks, that the country is sinking. We're experiencing a national sink. And what is the attitude of a responsible political force? Should the country sink and say 'let it sink into the hands of the other one, let it go'? That would be cynical and, if you like, selfish. So what do we say? That this course of national immersion must end. And to end, it needs a political change. In democracies too, political change comes with elections. That's just how it is. It's a stand-up. That is to end with politics and go to the essence of the bill under discussion. Here, Mr. Minister, the great, general views, the world's major developments, globalisation, robotics, nanotechnology, the fourth industrial revolution, which are called the'mega trends' on the planet, to justify the creation of four positions in the CSCE! We talked about the changes on the planet to say that because of such changes on the planet, we need four more positions in the Centre for Analysis and Planning! Look, the argument, as you can see, is 'beating'. Let me say another thing: The argument is the best defender and advocate of our position, that here we had to discuss an overall view of the change of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and its adaptation to the needs that the Minister mentioned. Your argument for fragmentation is being rejected, a canalism of the Ministry's regulation, and you are coming to an advocacy for our position, which we say is that today we should not discuss fragmentary provisions and welding independent provisions, which are essentially detached from the regulation, but a basic strategic view of where the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should go. The main view of the Minister is that science needs to be strengthened at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Who disagrees? Does anybody disagree? But be careful, because this is where the mentality begins. It says, science, experts in all respects - not those of the Ministry and abroad - because the need for alternative visas, alternatives, alternatives and foreign policy proposals must be addressed. Does this right you reserve to academics, hold it and recognize it to diplomatics? Minister, can diplomatics, on the basis of your declaration of function, have alternative visas, have divergent suggestions, conferences, from the main views of the Ministry's leadership? I feel, therefore, that what you deny diplomats, you give it to foreign universities. And another thing: Reiterate institutions that have been abolished because they have proved to be not very useful. I heard that the Scientific Council is preparing the legal strategy even for international courts. So many years, Minister, have we not prepared our basic legal strategy on the big issues of the country, on our relations with Turkey, on our name difference, on Cyprus, on the relationship with Albania? Over the years the Ministry, the Legal Service, with internal and external partners, has not prepared the country's basic, fundamental legal arguments? Why now do we need to set up a new legal strategy? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So there is a reasonable question. You guys up for something? Are you planning something? What do you mean? Is there any prospect of appealing to court? Do we have to deal with something new? If there is such a thing, and we need to get ready, you realize that it is very serious and you have to tell us. Minister, reasonable questions arise.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u162	You will hear them about Cyprus that you said there is no question of guarantees.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u163	This is where I'll answer. Minister, you just said that some of us said that there is no question of guarantees. So I'm going to reveal a story that concerns us both. In the Committee on Foreign Affairs about six months ago - perhaps more - when you spoke about guarantees and said that they were put, then I told you that they were not first put and that it was the position of the Greek Government in 2008 and 2009. You questioned it. After a while you sent me a letter asking me to establish my position in the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the fact that we did say so. I answered and sent you four public, binding, because it was from the press spokesman - interventions that said that the outdated logic of guarantees and invasive rights must end in response to diplomatic authors, in my speech to Cyprus and in a great interview with the RIK, which were the three of what I found looking for ten minutes online. I told you, in fact, to look into the archives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, that there will be more in your services.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u164	I looked. I looked!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u165	So do not claim the paternity of a post that does not belong to you. You put it right, but don't say that you've put it first.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u166	Complete your thoughts, Mr. Kumucako.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u167	I think it's important. Give me two minutes, Mr. President. Confidentially. Are we questioning the need for Parliament to be informed? But these thoughts I just testified. I said the chairman of the committee is presided over by the President of the House. Do you not consider Mr Voutsi worthy of representing the Greek Parliament in such a committee? Why are you saying that we want to hide something or are we thinking of not having the transparency needed by informing the Greek Parliament? What should we be discussing today, Minister? The big changes that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs needs. So let me tell you some of them. Improving public diplomacy, i.e. a strategy for the promotion of the country's international image created and effective. Upgrade the Diplomatic Academy so that know-how can be developed for the export of diplomats. What do I mean exporting diplomats? For example, training in international mediation, confidence building and crisis management, so that Greek diplomats can at some point play an international role, having such know-how, taking part in major international problems. Here's a change that can be made to the Diplomatic Academy. Something else very important. There is a need for a strategy to promote Greek officials in international organisations. We need a Greek promotion office in the international organizations. That requires strategy. What positions are they empty, how we will claim them, who we will claim them, what exchanges we will make with other states? So here is an institutional intervention in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and in its function that will modernise it, an office of Greek officials in the international organizations. Here's another change. The need to establish a permanent State Secretary for Foreign Affairs to ensure the continuity of foreign policy in its broad direction, regardless of the governments. Here's another change. The National Security Council. Other changes in low budgetary costs and high diplomatic efficiency in the country's foreign policy. That's what we should talk about, if, really, your interest was to discuss the modern role of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and not fragmentary provisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u168	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u169	I conclude by strengthening, with my own voice, the complete decency and condemnation of what has been heard here, the insulting and unacceptable towards a renowned, internationally renowned and prestigious professor, Professor Christos Rosakis. These had been heard before by LAOS. Now the Golden Dawn repeats them. It's unacceptable. This cannot be said within the Greek Parliament, for a man who has decorated Greek science both inside and in the international environment. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u170	Thank you Mr Kumucako, rapporteur of the New Democracy. Mr Stavros Tassos, special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor for his denology. I'll beg for five minutes, Mr. Tassos, with tolerance if necessary.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u171	I'll be brief. Thank you, Mr President. Minister, there is no doubt that you want the best scientists - as well as science and scientists in general - to serve foreign policy. But who is foreign policy? A policy that serves the interests of the bourgeoisie, a class, namely, which, together with its perch, represents 10% of the population but holds 90% of the wealth, which is increasingly involved in the imperialist designs and actions, in the intra-imperialist opposition that lead to interventions and wars and generally leads peoples to be sacrificed for the interests of the urban classes of each country. We want science and scientists in the service of 90% of the population, of the workers and of the people's strata that today holds only 10% of the wealth. We therefore want this 90% of the population to hold and enjoy 90% of the wealth it produces and the other 10% of the population to have the other 10% of the population, and to promote an external policy which contributes to the friendship between the peoples, equal and mutually beneficial relations. Mrs Triantafyllou said that such a policy is not possible today, because the correlation of power does not allow it. And, indeed, the correlation of power is not in favour of such a policy. But when every people are determined to fight for such a policy, much can do until what they are seeking is not guaranteed, because no one says that what we are saying is easy. But let us consider that if this logic of "what to do is that the correlation of power is not what we want it to be, it is not favourable to us", the Greek people should not fight the Italians, should not do the aftermath of the National Resistance, because the correlation was not favourable to him. That's what happened, though. And if the people didn't make the mistake of believing that they could reach agreement with the bourgeoismen, they would also have taken power into their hands. That is what we say, therefore, that an external policy that serves the interests of the bourgeoisie of each country is not for the benefit of the people of each country. That is why we cannot vote in favour of this bill in principle.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u172	Thank you very much for the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Stavros Tassos. Last of the rapporteurs for dentistry is Mr Dimitrios Mardas, rapporteur of SYRIZA. Here, Mr Marda, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u173	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, having listened carefully and as usual, of course, to what is being discussed in this House, I would like to ask a question to those who say that what is being done with regard to the Ministry's legal strategy is unnecessary. Show us a DPRK in a organized country, based only on an EMI or a DSO in an organised country based on a la cart committees, i.e. I have the alpha topic, creating a three-person committee, solving the problem while it solves and leaves. If you find organizational projects of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, you will find the existence of CS, the existence of two or three legal offices, the existence of crisis offices and you will also find collaborative institutes and universities financed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Therefore, I can tell you...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u174	I could answer you, but don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u175	Don't interrupt, Mr. Kumucako, if you're kind.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u176	You don't have to answer. Organograms are in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. You can take them. We've downloaded it, and we've got it all. I can tell you that we are proposing a bureaucracy which is not extraordinary. It's an institutionalized red tape. This is because the problems of foreign policy are not solved and can not be dealt with every time by a committee. That's what organized states do. If you can find me an organized state that has only one legal service, an HSY and on HSH to support foreign policy, find it for me, talk about it. Here we are, and not only in here, but anywhere else. Find me a state organized. I am not talking about the states surrounding us or the European Union. As far as teachers are concerned, and not only the teachers but also the experts, their role is to provide advice, suggestions, make suggestions. They don't decide. The decisions are the political leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but there is a need for suggestions. These will either come from teachers or experts or where they need entrepreneurs or some research institutes as recommendations.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u177	Not from the diplomats.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u178	The diplomats have their own suggestions in the context of their institutionalized existence in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It doesn't change.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u179	You have confirmed our concerns.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u180	Nothing's been confirmed. Don't look for an alibi. There's been a new institution that's been making suggestions and suggestions, and that institution should have been there a long time ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u181	You've just confirmed our concerns.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u182	I repeat my position. Give me an organized RUPD that bases its operation on an RU.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u183	You have just confirmed our concerns completely.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u184	But please don't interrupt, Mr. Kumucaco. We're not doing that!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u185	If you give me such a ministry, then I'll be able to revise some opinions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u186	Mr. Marda, you just canceled the diplomatic service.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u187	I come to OSH because two suggestions were heard, somewhere trade followers appeared as the wrongdoers of the whole story. What has happened in the past is measured by quantitative and qualitative data. From 2015 to the end - and it was not in 2015, why there were no suggestions in 2014 to organise them - and in particular in 2016 they have more than tripled their work in a year with quantitative data. This means that - I give two figures and I stop - from 2010 to 2014, a total of twelve joint interministerial committees and fourteen business missions were organised. In 2015, one for non-programming in 2014. Only in 2016 were twelve joint interministerial committees and twelve business missions. The yields of one year were about equal to the yields of four years, according to quantitative data. In 2017, there was planning for twelve joint interministerial committees and twenty-two business missions. As far as the quality data is concerned, there is no comparison measure, because see the website of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, "Buy", before 2015 and what information the Ministry of Foreign Affairs gave and see the website of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, "Buy", after 2015 and what information it gives to entrepreneurs who want to go out on foreign markets. What has happened and what has been given has never been announced before. And this is the result of another strategy that never existed in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the OHIM area.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u188	They don't need information to get away, they're leaving because of taxation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u189	No, and that's where you're wrong. You're wrong here again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u190	Finish, Mr Marda, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u191	Therefore, the qualitative and quantitative data show an upgrade of the industry. Production, I repeat, three-fold job with the same world that was in the past, if not with less people.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, Mr Marda, rapporteur of SYRIZA. We now call on the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Nikos Kotzias, to complete the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Mr President. I don't want a few things to remind the Ministry and the House. I have to answer. It's one of the main arguments. "What do you want with the scientific board? You degrade the HS which can respond to everything," i.e. the legal service we have at the Ministry, so that we can see the current jobs and everything else. It was added to it: "But what? Are you preparing a legal strategy? Do you not have it all broken up with the HS and the Ministry?" Funny arguments, good for titles, but! When did we - let us remember - a big trial we needed legal cover? In 2008, under Ms Bakoyannis and with you a representative at the Ministry. What happened in that trial for FYROM? Six people went. Do you know what it was? Do you remember, Mr. Kumucako, what were the four people? Foreign teachers. Foreign teachers! If we had a scientific board, we'd have Greek teachers at the trial. So don't walk the audience and the titles...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u194	Minister, don't say that. Do you know why foreign teachers need at The Hague Court?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u195	Do I know? You said here for hours, as in the committee, that teachers do not need and that diplomats are being underestimated. You guys only took foreign teachers. And you're giving up on us?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u196	You know very well, because foreign teachers need to go to The Hague Court.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u197	You only got strangers. You didn't take one Greek with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u198	You know very well, because you need foreign teachers at The Hague Court. I wonder why you don't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u199	Mr. Kumucaco, you're not helping.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u200	You didn't even take one Greek with you! You got foreign teachers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u201	I'm sitting on my way out, not to say why.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u202	Don't tell me why, but stop mocking that the use of teachers degrades and devalues diplomats.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u203	I respect my part. International professors need the International Court of The Hague, because they know people and things.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u204	So stop telling us that there is no need for teachers and scientific institutions at the Ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u205	Did I say they don't need to?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u206	Also, stop telling us that you were, well, prepared when you were looking for foreign teachers at the last hour. Let us go! Here's one fact, that we're coming to make...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u207	Mr. Kotzia, why do foreign teachers need teachers at The Hague Court?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u208	Mr. Kumucaco, that's not how it works.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u209	Mr. Kumucaco, listen to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u210	You don't know that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u211	Of course I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u212	Because they can talk to people they know.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u213	You say that there is no need for internationally renowned Greek teachers. You've been saying that for so many days. You told the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u214	Never, Mr. Kotzia.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u215	You, the Great Opposition and the other party that ran with you, you say that teachers don't need it. Did I say that? I said they needed it. Indeed, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I said that we also need foreign teachers and foreign experts.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u216	There you go!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u217	What's "subject"?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u218	Foreigners you mean strangers!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u219	You're mocking the world that when you've been in the toughest, you use teachers and you don't want this to be legislated. This is the fraud against the world.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u220	Making teachers bureaucrats is the wrong policy, Mr. Kotzia.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u221	Well, listen in peace now. We want to have a scientific council than the country has. You tell us 'no, only foreign teachers'. I tell you, the scientific board with the best Greek teachers is what you choose...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u222	Unbearable populism!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u223	Is it Lamicism, when you say you don't need teachers?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u224	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u225	Not when I prove to you that the country must make use of Greek teachers too? Why do Greek teachers have anything to envy about? Have any heads of international courts who then use foreign professors? Why is the foreign professor, who knows, for instance, the EDPS and is this Greek professor not good, who was vice president of this court and president? I don't understand? The President of the European Court of Justice was also Greek. Why is that so? Why, while you have never had any problems - I do not blame you on why you have used them - to say that you have made a mistake of the Ministry, about Ruspheologically, about the degradation of the Diplomatic Corps, about the downgrading of the HS when you took the foreign teachers, you have discovered all these arguments, we have just said that we should take the best teachers that this country has, in an institutional system that can prepare matters for a long time?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u226	Objection distortion.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u227	Mr. Kumucaco, calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u228	I'm very calm.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u229	Calm down! You're not very calm.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u230	It can't be quieter.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u231	Well, you're not calm, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u232	But it's constantly interrupting me, isn't it? That's where you didn't interfere.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u233	It allows communication between us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u234	Thank you very much. Let the administrations remember that too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u235	Let us move on to the process and complete it, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u236	What should I finish? I didn't start! Second, he says about the four in the CIA. And dressed as loyal...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u237	Marias.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u238	As you said, I did not say it, "But four! Is this where you're doing four?' What he forgets to say is that we are abolishing twenty-three places for these four. So what about the arithmetic? Will we accept the arithmetic factor of being objective? Now we're going to Cyprus, after we talked about FYROM. In Cyprus - and I invite you to come to the Ministry to show them to you - you made statements, as they all do, that the guarantees must leave, etc. However, in the Ministry's texts - and in 2004 in the 2002-2004 negotiations and in the 2008 instruments of the Ministry to which you were at that time - it was said that we cannot put the guarantees too strictly. Both 2002-2004 and the foreign interventions, and in 2008, he said Turkey's intervention in the northern part of Cyprus was acceptable. These are the texts of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u239	Where does that say, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u240	You'll come and I'll show you. And if you want to provoke me any more, I'll testify it in here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u241	Where does he say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u242	It tells it in the internal texts and suggestions of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u243	The press spokesman's statements are not official statements from the Ministry?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u244	You're not negotiating with the press statements. You're doing the paperwork. And the last card doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u245	There was no negotiation in 2008.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u246	The last paper you filed by your government in Switzerland isn't even in the Ministry's records. You want to open this conversation?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u247	In 2008 and 2009, there was no negotiation. Where did you find it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u248	There was. Looks like you didn't get it. There was in 2008.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u249	What about me?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u250	I don't know. Thirdly, regarding confidentiality, I repeat, we do not want to put an audit committee within the Ministry. The Secretary-General and the Ministerial Committee are monitoring anyway. We want to introduce the principle that Parliament is entitled to the way in which its Rules of Procedure agree to monitor everything. That's the beginning. And that is the principle you are questioning. I should like to say here about the police and the proposal that has been made, that I am in agreement. As we have military followers, we can see how those police followers who have not gone for simple work, such as visas and so on. Next one. I have analysed globalisation for so many years, that it is not a single project, a single process. There's a fragmentation. And I have stressed how and how and why in the age of globalisation, the national state is being strengthened. I've written four books here and two outside. I'm fine with it. I do not think that life shows anything else than that globalisation and fragmentation interconnect and that the national state that some said would disappear does not disappear. That is the policy we see from some places. And with regard to the NGOs that someone mentioned, we have sent - and I am very proud of this - forty-three cases to the prosecutor. And from the forty-three cases of great pleasure - and I'm going to do for the first time in a long time for a press conference like this - I proclaim it, we get money back. And you know, we found money on a Central American island that was supposedly, developmental, and it was bank and arrogant. "The traditional goat will also laugh for the work we do at the Ministry on these issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u251	Does Rondos say anything to you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u252	The government parties must say, not to me. Below for the commercial followers Mr Mardas said - it is a fact that Mr Loverdos too has in the past, but much more intensively than Mr Mardas - that he has exploited and strengthened their role. And, of course, the development of their role does not mean the deterioration of diplomats. And the argument about the degradation of diplomats also has an element of devaluation of people. The Diplomas Association has come and said that the bill is moving in the right direction. Isn't that what he said? And now you come to play their fathers, "children you have not understood well, underestimate you and we will tell you." In addition, it was said that during their hearing representatives declared that the Ministry was deceiving the bill and remained in the request, a specific quote from the racists, someone to say what New Democracy claims. I say this because it was invoked - and I said it in my initial introduction - of various names and representatives and it proved that our representatives never said that. Now I want to tell you one more thing. You say that the high-skilled scientists we want to take to the CAS and the Scientific Council, is a product of rhyphetology or will become a rhyphetology. And someone said that the scientific board is also the end of rhesphetology. I want to tell you something. You exaggerate people, who hope to accept these positions, because when you say that these people who will accept these positions - and I mentioned an example during our speech - are the result of a product of rheumatology and are the best people in the country, you ask yourself what morally 'true' and'surprise' are in advance among these people. And I wonder. Will you make public self-criticism when you see the Scientific Council and its composition? Will you confess that it is not a product of rhyspheology when you see that it is the blossom, the best judges, the best university professors we have in International Law in Greece? That's the question. And let me tell you something, when some highly prestigious and internationally recognized teachers are preliminarily characterized as rousphetology, you are opening the door to speculators. And by the way - it has nothing to do with the previous one - I want to answer something about Mr Rosaki. Are Greek citizens the Jews the religion of Greeks and Greeks?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u253	Who are you addressing, Minister? You are addressing the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u254	Of course. Why do you get angry?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u255	Because you're looking at me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u256	I wasn't even looking at you. I was looking at Mr. Dannelly.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u257	I said my place from the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u258	What should we do now? Can't I talk and look at Mr. Dannelly? Mr. Danielle, wasn't I looking at you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u259	Yeah, he was looking at me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u260	There it is. The man's swinging his head. I don't know what fly you have and you smell.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u261	Shame on you to say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u262	It's embarrassing to interrupt me when...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u263	In this specific matter, it is a shame to say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u264	Please, Mr. Kumucako. You've lost the booze.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u265	Mr. Kumucaco, he wasn't referring to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u266	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u267	All right then. Can I talk about Mr. Rosaki?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u268	On staff, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u269	What can we do now? Can we interrupt to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u270	No, after the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u271	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u272	When I criticise the Golden Dawn, the main representative of the New Democracy is asking for the floor on staff. You haven't made a right choice by speaking on staff. I'm coming back. Are Jewish citizens, women and men, honest and equal citizens of this land, such as everyone independent of religion or who has no religion? Are the Jewish citizens, who fought in the Albanian Epic and the first colonel who was killed in the Greek-Albanian epic was Jewish in the religion of a Greek citizen? Or are some people disturbed that the Jews also resisted the Albanian Epic against fascist and nazi hordes? And finally, is it correct that exceptional academic cases, which are not Orthodox in the religion, which may be Catholic, may be Muslims, may be atheists, may be Buddhists, may be anything, can the Greek state use them all? I just want to remind you of one thing. That even the state of Israel that is so accused - with alpha sons, not to be properly confused - of his attitude to the Palestinians, had ministers and State Secretary Muslims. And the former ambassador of Israel was a Muslim. I do not understand why in Greece a citizen who deserves high knowledge and quality is not entitled to hold public office. Fries is the one I was referring to. Fries is the colonel who fell into the Albanian Epic. There's a travel issue. I heard a lady who came in, spoke and left and criticised what she did not hear, what we were talking about, mentioning to the Prime Minister of the country, the fact that she went from Portugal to France. I would like to say something to you as Minister of Foreign Affairs and you people who are concerned with foreign policy should understand that. Is it compulsory for all contacts with Greece and Greek political actors to be announced and made public abroad? Is it compulsory, every time I meet a minister from the Balkans or from our region to say it? Aren't there informal meetings? Are there no meetings that are being held to make an effort to dialogue and not meetings to make headlines either positive or negative? And is it the attitude of the Opposition, to ask for an account to be made publicly against our lenders, or against the Turks, or against whom do we see? Is this a matter, or should we agree on policy? Why am I publicizing who is the Chief of Officer Responsibility who travels with the help and care of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? Alas! He'll choose whether to say and who to say and if he wants to say everyone or not. But diplomacy is not a media. Diplomacy is diplomacy because it has two tools. Diplomatic method and negotiation. Its tool is not publicity on the front pages. I remind you how many trips I make and how much money they are being made available to the public, even though I give them to publicity, from the media and I have no complaints, I have no problem with them. We must do our job in foreign policy and nothing else. Now because someone from the extreme right said about the International Court of The Hague, if the International Court of The Hague was so convenient for Turkey, it would have gone under the Helsinki Agreement, which was an agreement that bound it up and sent it, if necessary, to the International Court of The Hague. And it didn't go. And it did not go because Turkey is a country that shows power and does not like international law, because, as a rule, it is also wrong for relations with us. We must therefore claim and seek the application of international law and everything that has to do with it. We're not going - because you left a hint - at this time for the International Court of The Hague. Moreover, the possibility that emerged in the 1990s was abolished upon your own government. Last in terms of rating, the Agency's provisions on rating exist and have not been repealed. The Ministry's agency and the ranking provisions that exist in the Ministry's organization remain valid because, as you know, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is governed by specific provisions. The decision of the Law Council of the State recognises the special status of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and opinions that the Bernardakis Act does not include its employees, since it abolishes a provision of a law which it applied to the single rating and does not relate to the Agency. In any case, however, we will also have a new rating for all the categories of workers, particularly the new forms and methods of evaluation. I don't know about this one time. You should know - and we must defend it by the foreign ministry - that it is not the next county. It's not an appendix of a sub-direction. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is a special institution, with special activity, living and beating its heart twenty-four hours a day and must have its own rhythms and ways. I fully agree, if you want me to say for a long time, in an address from a ministry - any public body - even the supervisor is elected by the workers there. Foreign policy can't do it. I would remind you that even the greatest revolutionary, Vladimir Lenin, used as a Foreign Policy Commissioner the former Foreign Minister. I therefore want to thank you for all the thoughts, objections and controversies we have had. I would like to thank you for the proposals and procedures we have agreed on. And I want to tell you that I hope in good time that we can set up the new Agency. I would point out that the committee set up by the new Agency is working autonomously - I have not yet seen it, nor have I seen any chapters - as all diplomats in our country operate here and abroad. They work with their hearts, their thoughts and their minds. And always - all diplomats know that because they are listening to us already - there is no meeting or meeting or the possibility of expressing their opinion and not having its importance. However, from there on, after the meeting, after the decision, they do not continue to think about alternatives, but they think about how the decisions will be implemented. On the contrary, to university teachers you can never tell them that their problem is how to apply the decisions of a think tank. Their problem is to keep thinking and assist, after the meetings that are being prepared with diplomats, to enrich thoughts. I must tell you that I was amazed by the debate in this House. And I was particularly surprised by the major opposition, which has a fear that diplomats will suffer and that they should be protected. I know they have four former service Secretarys General in their party. In fact, the two are both representatives of your party at the National Foreign Policy Council - a substitute and regular - of how party-based the ministry was in your time, so that we could get together. There are these instruments all over the world. No one accused, from China and Russia to America and Mexico, of being countries that degraded their diplomats. And let countries such as the United States and Canada in the highest diplomatic posts enter political persons. We don't do that, and nobody thinks about it. But if we want to disconnect the Ministry of Foreign Affairs from modern scientific knowledge, if we want to remove the possibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs hearing the best minds in the country, the specific categories, or if we consider that every diplomat by definition is the best one in the world, in every sector of international science, the International Law, the Political Science, the institutional systems or the European Union, it is an exaggeration that no one deserves to answer. Our Diplomatic Body is active, it supports the country's foreign policy, which is based on them. And I am, I can say, even proud of the good relationships I have with the diplomatic hierarchy and the collective way we work with. That is why you will note that even the positions of Secretary-General, as is Secretary-General of European Affairs - which are the political actors - have not been established. Apart from economics, there is no general secretary with political characteristics. It is based on the Ministry's official and official secretary-general, the political director and directors, who means you're making a big mistake in your charges. And in rushphetologicals, I have shown in figures that you have a mistake and that the issue of bankruptcy has proved that it is integrated and is related to the major global changes that we are doing and to the functioning of the ministry, we will have positive steps. I hope that we will continue our good debate and cooperation in the next laws and, above all, in that of the Agency. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u273	Thank you, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Kotzia.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u274	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u275	You have already asked for the floor. Mr Kumucako, you will allow me to say that your name has not even been mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u276	Are you serious now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u277	The only name to be mentioned was in a positive way by Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u278	What do you say, Mr. President? Poetry, other House. It's been reported five times.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u279	Leave poetry aside. He doesn't need your defence. What I can say...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u280	After the devaluation of science we also have the devaluation of poetry, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u281	Yeah. You have referred in a disgraceful way, Mr Kumucako, but I am in any case opposed to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u282	Mr President, has my name been heard five times and you say that there was not even one heard?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u283	I'll tell you right away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u284	Mr President, you must let him say what the staff are made up of.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u285	Mr Kumucako, you will allow me to apply the Rules of Procedure and I will give you thirty seconds to one minute, to tell me what the staff are, and then we will discuss if there is one. I can only hear you on that for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u286	Mr President, I said that you did not hear, because art work sometimes creates a move away from the events that are happening at the moment. It wasn't an irony. Besides, let me tell you it's been heard five times...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u287	I don't know what you're saying. What concern? This is where I'm dealing with the arts, and I'm not watching you? What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u288	Mr President, my name was heard five times and you said that there was not even one heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u289	In any case, I hear what the personal issue is.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u290	When the Minister referred to the issue of the unacceptable position for Mr Rosakis from the Golden Dawn, he did not refer to who he is addressing. When I reacted and said, "You talk about Golden Dawn," he said, "Why do you react, Mr Kumucaco? Do you have flys and smells?’
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u291	I didn't say it there.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u292	He didn't have any...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u293	Watch out. There has been a second time in connection with the history of guarantees and intervention rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u294	Mr. Comrade...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u295	Mr. President, please. I consider in particular the first, which concerns the core of the values of a representative of the Greek people within Parliament, a very serious matter and that is why I ask for the floor on staff, because it cannot...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u296	You have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u297	Five minutes ago, I myself referred to the best possible words of appreciation and respect for a professor, with whom I also have a personal friendship, Mr Rosakis, defending this, and the Minister left himself implied with the "you have fly and you smell" in the reaction to what was not acceptable from the Golden Dawn. Minister, lessons of democratic consciousness and respect for the personality of acquainted people in the country I do not accept. Let's get this over with. Secondly, because you have not identified who you were addressing, you have addressed the extreme right only on the question of the Court of Justice and not on the major question of moral order concerning the reference to Mr Rosaki. Then you were deliberately unclear. To finish with these stories that we know about. We've also been trade unionists, Minister. One more thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u298	All right, now, that's not possible, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u299	Now you are taking the floor for other issues. Is that personal? Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u300	Isn't that personal?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u301	But please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u302	Mr President, is that not on personal grounds?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u303	Do you repeat the same procedure that was not even mentioned to you? Please. Anyway, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u304	Finally, with regard to the accusation that we don't want scientists or experts at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, of course we want them and I told you that we want a Ministry of Foreign Affairs with scientists, with academics, but not a Ministry...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u305	But is that personal now or is that an answer? Please, Mr. Kumucako. You don't have the floor. Minister, please close with just one comment, so that we can proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u306	I would like to say this: I am right, Mr Kumoutsakos, to say that what I said in his opinion is deliberately unclear. So how did he realize I meant him?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u307	Then you talked about me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u308	Let me finally speak, Mr. Kumucako. You interrupted me and addressed the word to Spyros.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u309	Mr. Dannelly.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u310	I know, but I've been saying this friendlyly because we've known each other for many years. Didn't I look at you at that time, Mr. Dannelly? You say, "Why do you refer to me?" I said, "But wasn't I looking at you?" That's what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u311	The procedure is completed. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u312	It was neither intentionally unclear nor anything. It was clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u313	Good. Before we proceed to the vote, I would like to make a statement to this House. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that the Standing Committee on Formats Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: "Adjustment of the subjects of the State Certificate of Language, the National Library of Greece and other provisions". The debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is hereby terminated: 'Amendment of the Code of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other provisions'. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u314	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u315	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u316	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u317	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u318	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u319	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u320	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u321	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u322	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Amendment of the Code of the Organization of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other provisions’ was accepted in principle by a majority. We are going to vote on the articles and they will be voted on separately. Can Rule 1, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u323	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u324	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u325	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u326	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u327	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u328	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u329	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u330	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u331	Article 1 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u332	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u333	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u334	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u335	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u336	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u337	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u338	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u339	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u340	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u341	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u342	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u343	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u344	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u345	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u346	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u347	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u348	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u349	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u350	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u351	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u352	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u353	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u354	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u355	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u356	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u357	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u358	Article 4 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u359	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u360	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u361	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u362	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u363	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u364	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u365	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u366	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u367	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u368	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u369	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u370	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u371	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u372	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u373	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u374	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u375	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u376	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u377	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u378	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u379	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u380	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u381	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u382	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u383	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u384	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u385	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u386	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u387	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u388	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u389	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u390	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u391	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u392	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u393	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u394	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u395	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u396	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u397	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u398	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u399	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u400	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u401	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u402	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u403	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u404	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u405	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u406	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u407	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u408	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u409	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u410	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u411	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u412	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u413	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u414	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u415	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u416	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u417	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u418	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u419	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u420	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u421	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u422	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u423	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u424	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u425	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u426	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u427	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u428	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u429	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u430	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u431	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u432	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u433	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u434	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u435	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u436	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u437	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u438	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u439	Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u440	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u441	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u442	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u443	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u444	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u445	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u446	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u447	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u448	Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u449	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u450	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u451	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u452	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u453	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u454	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u455	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u456	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u457	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u458	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u459	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u460	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u461	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u462	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u463	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u464	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u465	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u466	Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u467	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u468	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u469	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u470	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u471	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u472	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u473	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u474	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u475	Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u476	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u477	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u478	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u479	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u480	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u481	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u482	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u483	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u484	Article 18 was therefore accepted as being majority. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u485	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u486	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u487	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u488	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u489	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u490	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u491	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u492	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u493	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the Law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Amendment of the Code of the Organization of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other provisions’ was accepted in principle and in articles. We move on to vote on the bill and on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u494	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u495	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u496	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u497	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u498	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u499	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u500	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u501	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u502	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Amendment of the Code of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of articles and all, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u503	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to ratify the Minutes of today's sitting on the whole of this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u504	The House therefore granted the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-07-S1-commons.u505	With the consent of the House at 22.09 p.m., the meeting on Thursday, February 9, 2017, at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work (a) parliamentary scrutiny: debate on topical questions; and (b) legislative work: only debate and vote on the principle, articles and draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: "Consolidation of the subjects of the State Certificate of Language, the National Library of Greece and other provisions", according to the supplementary agenda distributed.
