ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before the topical and urgent debate, I will make a few announcements to this House. First, the Ministers for Rural Development and Food, Home Affairs, Economy and Development, Economic and Administrative Reconstruction, as well as the Deputy Ministers for Rural Development and Food and Economics submitted a draft law on 18-9-2017: ‘Movement and marketing of fresh and vulnerable agricultural products and other provisions’. Secondly, the Ministers for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Home, Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, Foreign Affairs, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Health, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Culture and Sport Policy tabled a draft law on 18-9-2017: "Legal recognition of gender identity - National Mechanism for the Training, Monitoring and Evaluation of Child Rights Action Plans". Thirdly, the Foreign Affairs, Education, Research and Religion, Economic and Administrative Reconstruction, the Deputy Minister of Finance and the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs submitted a draft law on 18-9-2017: "Greek Institute of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies". Fourthly, the Finance and Foreign Ministers, as well as the Deputy Minister of Finance, submitted a draft law on 18-9-2017: ‘Structuring the Multilateral Agreement of Authorities for the Exchange of Reports by Country and Implementing Provisions’. They shall be referred to the competent Standing Committees. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The first question under number 1461/11-9-2017, a second question by the New Democracy MP, Christos Boukorous, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Concession of Pan-Thessalic Stage in Volos", will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the relevant Minister and will be redefined for discussion. It's because of the workload. The second question, under number 1483/12-9-2017, of the second question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Health, concerning the chronic lack of medical staff at the pediatric surgery clinic of the University General Hospital of Heraklion (PAGNI), will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr Paul Polakis, and will be redefined for discussion. The fourth question under number 1380/30-8-2017 of the Parliamentary Attica of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Paraskevi Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Health, on the topic: "Northern Hospitals", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Pavlos Polakis, and will be redefined for discussion. The first question by number 6534/21-6-2017 from the circle of petitions - questions by the Independent MP II of Athens Mr.Theocharis Theocharis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Traditional behaviour at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou. It's because of the workload. The seventh question under number 923/1-6/2017 of the People's League MP - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Fullement of the Battle of the nation", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister of Education, Research and Religion Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou. The sixth question, under number 1293/21-8-2017, of the second question of the Member of Parliament Phytiotidas of New Democracy, Christos Stakos, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the financing of actions by criminal actions against the Greek State and the allocation of funds for social purposes, will not be discussed due to a workload of the Deputy Minister of Finance, George Huliarakis. The third question, with number 1482/12-9-2017, is the first question of the Member of Parliament's Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Stavros Tassos to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "To stop the validity of the forced price for the participation in the examinations of the Home Professional Training of Graduates of IEK", will not be discussed due to the unsuccessful obligations of the Deputy Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr. Dimitrios Baxvanakis. Therefore, only four topical questions will be discussed. The two are to the Minister of National Defence Mr. Pano Kammenos and two to the Minister of Health Mr. Andreas Xanthos. Because of the twelve questions, as you can see, only four will be discussed, there will also be a tolerance of time for questions and ministers, but not abuse. On the grounds of the absence of the Ministers, there is also the letter from the Secretary-General of the Government, Mr Michael Kaloger. We will begin with the third with No 1443/5-9-2017 topical question of the second Athens MP Mr. Spyridonos - Adonidos Georgiadis to the Minister of National Defence, "on the level of the objective value of the properties to be used by the Ministry of National Defence". Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, did the shopping go well in London? We admired you with Jaguar at SELFRIDGES, with a car full of bags. We were thinking here with Yannis Brutsi earlier what would happen if during the Samara era - Venizelos, Minister - and don't move the head - the journalists were arrested by Evangelos Venizelos, who was found by the whole opposition for a government BMW he had, to shop in London by SELFGES with Jaguar, while the south Attica is being destroyed by the oil spill your government left to escape. You first, Minister, and don't bend your head, you'd have raised the world and the Internet. Don't laugh at all! You found Venizelos for BMW personally and now Jaguar likes you! We didn't know you had any disagreement on the chip! But you are not telling us what you were shopping for because I counted a third bag of SELFRIDGES. You've been shopping in a trunk! Don't move your head. You're here to answer, sir!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u3	You should be ashamed of yourself!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u4	No one in Greece should be ashamed more of you, about what you have said all these years and about what you have done all these years. I remind you of the disgracefulness of the CDS and the Papandreou broker. And now that you like the PSI to hold the ministerial chair! And now you like the memorial and how you apply it, that you wouldn't even approach dead! To dare you to talk to me! But now let's go, Minister, to the big one. You came to the Parliament in December 2016 and said for a moment that it is so grand and proper that your plans to make use of the real estate of the Ministry of National Defence, which is estimated that within 2017 you will collect the Greek State 300 million euros and stabilise the state's revenues for the next 400 to 500 million years. But in August, a few days ago, your Ministry issued a press release that to date the agency's receipts are 600,000 euros. You know, Minister, that we are at the end of September 2017 and you have received EUR 600,000 from the 300 million that you promised to collect in 2017? We would therefore like you to inform us of how your plans are going to make use of it. I will tell you, Minister, that you have really succeeded in overcoming my expectations, because the failure of the fund follows your previous announcement to the Committee on Defence of the House on the enormous projects of PARAMOUNT and ELVO, which you have drawn the praise of PARAMOUNT and how great plans you have for ELVO. I would remind you that the first and second competitions failed. The first was cut ‘PARAMOUNT’ and the second was not even submitted. So that's where you failed in terms of your financial forecasts. So the idea is that in words you're too handsome, but to fill the fund with state money not. I'm hanging up with the last one. You came to the committee of Parliament and told us in June that we are signing an agreement to sell the ammunition, what their calibrations are no longer used in the Greek Army, in Saudi Arabia with EUR 66 million. You told us in Parliament in June - at the beginning or at the end - that in the next ten or fifteen days we would receive these 66 million, with a friend of yours, if I am not mistaken, Mr Papadopoulos. Can you tell us, Minister, what happened to this story? I am therefore convening because it is all, Mr President, in the same part of the use of the property of the Hellenic Army, the Armed Forces, to be precise. Firstly, of the 300 million targeted for 2017 you have brought us EUR 600,000 so far. When will the remaining 299,400,000 euros come? Secondly, what about ELVO and the competition in progress and the company PARAMOUNT, which you had so much advertisements and which eventually disappeared from the ELVO market? Thirdly, is the sale of ammunition and EUR 66 million? We got it, we'll take it with Mr. Papadopoulos, without Mr. Papadopoulos? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u5	Minister, it goes without saying that you will have twice as much time from three minutes, and of course, since I have allowed Mr Georgiadis to refer to a matter outside his timely question, if you too wish, you can answer it. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, because Mr Georgiadis is unregulated, a well-known unregulated, he was talking to journalists and said he would refer to Jaguar. So I have brought you a certificate from our embassy that this car is the service car available to all the ministers and with which you were walking, Mr Georgiadis, at the IMO assembly. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos presents for the record the above-mentioned statement, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I only use other cars, which I took for an hour between the official meeting and lunch, and I went to buy for my children a gift for a Barbie doll. I was looking to find a teleporter like the one you were running with Mr. Prateri in Mykonos, but he didn't have that last model. So be more serious and use parliamentary control to actually do the work for which the Greek people have appointed you. These bugs you use and the mad ones, use them when you go on TV. Secondly, despite the fact that it is not a question, I will answer that, as far as the sale of material is concerned, a transnational agreement has been signed with Saudi Arabia, signed by the Minister of National Defence and the successor himself, with a representative of Mr Papadopoulos and not a trader and a broker. We are waiting for this convention to be implemented. They've come here, they've checked that material, a designated transporter, it's been a KYSEA, it's passed through the House. I hope in the next few days that this agreement, like other agreements on old material, which were in stores and which, if we were to continue with the decisions of the previous governments, would not just come to the fund of the Ministry of National Defence and the Staff, but would also pay money to destroy them, such as the famous mines in Bulgaria, which charged 4 million for their destruction by the government, to which you were not a member, I was a member, while you were a opposition and questions. Now, as far as the exploitation of the property of the Armed Forces is concerned, I will tell you that such questions have so far not existed in the House for the simple reason that the property of the Armed Forces funds, which is not the property of the Ministry, but the property of the retired and active officials, is the property of the Armed Forces funds, it was not. There was not for the simple reason, because this property was used to make ruffles, so that Mr Venizelos would come out and give camps, give facilities, for supposedly beneficial purposes, but in order to get votes. I also informed Mr Davakis last time - but it seems you are not listening to him - that the property of the Armed Forces - and I mean the funds - amounts to the objective value of around EUR 34 billion. In the recent past, we talked about this value, the opposition had focused on the buildings, but it has forgotten the areas within which the Armed Forces, the Funds and they have all been published and are of very significant value. At this point I want to be specific. With regard to the competitions, the competition at the outset started with an electronic platform, which was awarded to us by the Public Real Estate of ETAD S.A. and the five real estate competitions were conducted in April 2017. However, the cost of this platform was too high. Thus, from the GGM in August, from 2 to 11 August, we proceeded to create a new electronic platform, which did not cost a single euro in the GGM, because it was made by members of the Armed Forces who operated in the first competitions and the first benefits of August 2 to 11 were EUR 14,241.003,90 for real estate of an objective value of EUR 11,883.883,32. These are for the first competitions. The Office of the Office for Official Publications of the European Communities, which we have created, has conducted five electronic tenders in April, and then, as I told you, after being drawn up, in cooperation with the relevant funds, they were approved by the decision of the CSM of 14 February, and we proceeded with the tenders. In particular, the property of the former camp of “LIOSH”, of an objective value of 443,373, ownership of TTHA, became a winner with a monthly lease of EUR 3,400 for twenty-five years with an extension of twenty-five years. The total financial benefit for the service with the lease contract will be EUR 1,152,322. The SGM with its decision of 26 June 2017 approved the outcome of the tendering procedure and finalisation. For the real estate of the store on Sutsou 40, ownership of the Equity Fund, of an objective value of 1,274,000 euros, the company "VEROPOULOS S.A." was the majority of the company with a monthly lease of EUR 6,700 for 12 years, with the possibility of an extension and with a minimum adjustment for all 1% a year. The total financial benefit for the service with this lease contract for twelve years will be 1.019,000 euros. On 26 June 2017, the CSM again approved the outcome of the tender and the final assurance of the majority. In addition to this, the following have been approved: formerly camp "ROKA" in Mandra Attica, with a monthly exchange of EUR 6,000 for twenty years. Kolokotronis 3-5 in Athens, Equatorial Equity Fund, with a monthly consideration of 40,000 euros. Bird 2 in Kavala, 4,000 euros. Former Prime Minister of New Democracy rented it. Sina 20 in Athens with an opening price of 20,000 euros. After all of this - and I will give it to you in particular - we have achieved a great deal together with large leases, such as Kolokotronis, the Equity Fund, which has an objective value of EUR 9,499,000 and the majority of it gives EUR 40,000 with a 1 euro adjustment per year. For the first six months only provision is made for 50% of the rent. So you realise that only this property will be collected from the funds of EUR 10 349 000. The total benefit so far from the competitions that have been conducted, which have indeed been late, because we are late to make the military database, is EUR 14,241,000 for real estate of an overall objective value of EUR 11,883,000. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has yet to prepare all the files for very large properties. You know, the Fleet Fleet Fleet Fleet Fleet Fleet Fleet Fleet Fleet Fleet has an objective value of EUR 2 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u7	With this complete your protology, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u8	I'm hanging up with this. He has already been interested in a company from the Middle East and the minimum rent is at 100,000,000 euros. We may not have achieved the objectives we had announced, but you realise that this is the first time that money has been put into the equity funds. We did with them a hundred homes last year for the officers of the Armed Forces. This year, we'll be over four hundred houses. Those with a bill, which for the first time the property of the funds does not use for ruffles, Mr Georgiadis, but is using it in order to bring it to the benefit of the personnel of the Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u9	You have the floor, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u10	Minister, once you know that when you try to explain a number of excuses to justify unjustified matters, you get more involved. In other words, you said earlier in the Greek Parliament that with the embassy's service car you went to shopping at "SELFRIDGES". Is that what you told us?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u11	Are you and...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u12	You know, Minister - and don't move your head - if that was the case with the previous government, what would you and your fans say on the Internet? As regards the fact that the car is a service, I would say that Mr Venizelos was also a serviceman and, indeed, he is now in the use of your own government. But now, Mr President, this BMW is not annoying! It was only annoying when he was in Mr. Venizelos. Now that he's on SYRIZA, he's fine! I'll tell you now about the lessons about my style in here, Minister. From you? Do you want us to have a gigantic screen here, play the speech you made about Fuchelle from there on the Step and how, with passion, you said you wouldn't sell Greece out to the Germans? Do you want to play your speech - here you sit - on CDS and George Papandreou and the broker? Mr President, I do not say it for the second time, because from what I understood, in London - correct me, if I am mistaken - with Mr Hatzmenas you were again. I remember Mr. Hatzimenas at the time you were talking about the CDS, he had made the Association of Young Greek Entrepreneurs and was the first guest to meet George Papandreou at the time when he was supposed to sell Greece as a broker you were telling me here and teaching me style lessons! You have the courage to do to any Member of Parliament lessons about the style when you were accusing the Prime Minister of selling Greece as a broker! And now you're a best friend with his buddy and you're not ashamed! So, when you are Panos Kammenos and you have said what you have said in this House, when you stand up and talk - I must not forget, Mr President, the unspeakable memory of the "four" that you have yelled here and now you are "in the fourteen" - you must ask for an apologies for the styles, because it doesn't take you to speak about styles. But I keep that while Attica was destroyed by the oil spill, the Minister of National Defence was for shopping at the SELFRIDGES with the service - in his statement - Jaguar. But now, Minister, let us refer to the specifics you have told me, so that the people who are listening to us can also understand. You have set the bar with Mr. Zeshimatto that in 2017 you will receive EUR 300 million. If I understood correctly - and correct me - you have informed us before not that you have collected to date, but that you have made tenders to collect EUR 14 million. If one of the EUR 300 million is made up of EUR 14 million, we are at EUR 286 million minus. Minister, can you give us a reply on where these EUR 286 million missing from your forecasts are? I'm saying that because, according to what you said, you didn't just go under the bar you put, but you see the bar like Everest. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Now, if I may, Minister, you have said something about the ammunition. Please very much for your attention. In the summer in Parliament you said exactly the same about the convention with Saudi Arabia and Mr Papadopoulos. But then you told us - and I remember well, my memory is not cheating on me - that we would receive this money within ten or twenty days at most. Assuming that you told us at the end of June - let me give you all of July, let's do it all in August - we are now in September! We got September 19th! You have to tell us if you've taken the money? Don't tell us if you've signed an agreement - these are old history, you told us three months ago - but if you've taken the money. If you haven't taken the money, do you have an estimate - to write it in the Minutes - for when do you plan to get it? And if you don't take them then, will you tell us exactly what you intend to do? Because your declarations and your style are very nice, but, from what I understand from your answer, the money is still out of hand. I note, too, to conclude, Minister, that it has probably dispersed your attention - I am sure you will now answer the question of ELVO. On the subject of ELVO, the Delegation must know that the Minister of National Defence in the Committee on Defence of the Parliament, Mr President, had presented with great pride and very much vision his great success in bringing the company "PARAMOUNT" to take ELVO. However, since he presented them to us in the committee of Parliament, the competition has been declared barren twice and the company of which you knitted the ego has disappeared. He didn't even make an offer. Do you have anything to tell us about this matter, Minister, so that we can know where we are with ELVO and PARAMOUNT, and with all that you promised, so that we can finally speak with data and allow parliamentary control of what you are going to tell us now with amounts and with dates when these dates come, see whether you will have received them or not? Then we'll see which one of us is doing a better job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u13	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Apart from a representative of public-sector companies, such as the "ELLENIKIKI FRYSOS", I see that you have acquired the status of defender of Mr Venizelos and Mr Papandreou. Listen, Mr. Georgiadis, I understand that you should serve your bosses, the company "ELLENIC FRYSOS", Mr. Marinakis, Mr. Kourtakis, as I understand it, and that you should go through taking your political cut. Sometimes others also take economic interest, like Mr. Vorides, who is their lawyer. From there on, I really wonder where you are going out as a representative of the New Democracy to talk about questions put by the entire New Democracy Parliamentary Group for Mr Venizelos. I wonder how they still tolerate you. Of course, you are the choice of Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis. This is the New Democracy of today: the defender of PASOK. We had asked questions about the CDS 15 Members of the New Democracy. And on the issue of Papandreou, then, with its involvement, I will remind you that the Chief of the New Democracy himself, Mr. Samaras, was the one who had given the mandate to carry out the investigation. Unfortunately, this investigation continues, Mr Georgiadis, and is already in the hands of the prosecutors' office with three prosecutors looking for the bills. I understand your stress to close, because you are the kubara between PASOK and the New Democracy. In this capacity, then, you will apologize to the New Democracy and not to me. Secondly, with regard to the question of the use of a car, I, Mr Georgiadis, with the service car available to me by the embassy, between two meetings, I went on foot and then came and took me to lunch. You used the state media to make public relations. I don't go to Mykonos, Mr. Georgiadis, nor do I sit on NAMMOS decks of three thousand. I'm saying that to explain.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u15	What about me?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u16	As far as ELVO is concerned, although it is not our question, I understand your stress. With regard to ELVO, the company ‘PARAMOUNT’ is indeed a large company in South Africa, which is interested and took part in the first competition for ELVO. The second tender did not take place because the first tender was allowed to run a German company, which, in the view of PARAMOUUNT, was that company, which had not presented an economic offer and preferred to go to the current negotiation. This morning, I saw ELVO's workers. The aim of the government is for ELVO to operate with a major - if you like - essentially to be able to help our defence industry. I wish it could work under the guidance of the State, under the direction of the Ministry of National Defence and the Ministry of Transport, which Mr Spirtz has proposals specific to PPP, as far as buses are concerned. But to come to ELVO and, instead of opening a next shop, to produce from a country which is not a member of NATO and the European Union, in order to certify its products, to ensure that all workers and their wages are guaranteed, that, Mr Georgiadis, is something we want. We'll try both the Treasury and the National Defence Department and ELVO to work tomorrow. The businesses that you have closed one by one over the years which, unfortunately, you and Mr Venizelos have been taking on, are slowly putting them on the table. If you go to Patras, you will see the "Greek Defence Systems" operating. You'll see that they slowly start all the factories. The EAW is signing agreements. ELVO's going to go ahead. It will not be given to a friend businessman who will grab ELVO's plans and disappear. And that's why Greece's going forward. You have been begging for so long for the country's negotiation not to go well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u17	The memorial?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u18	Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u19	You said in here that the country would collapse and go bankrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u20	Say it, the memorial, you wouldn't sign a dead one.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u21	You screamed and begged to disintegrate...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u22	Mr. Georgiadis, there's no other negotiation. That's the one.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u23	With regard to the phrase 'four', it was what Mr Samaras said to Mr Nikolaopoulos to sit on four to the lenders. You sat on four. We don't sit down. We're up, we've negotiated, we've won, and we've got the country out of the memoirs. That's our difference, Mr. Georgiadis. Rejoice in the New Democracy!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u24	Congratulations! Mr President, Mr Kammenos referred to personal matters.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u25	I understand what you're saying. If I go to note personally and personally and Mr Kammenos can ask. However, we close, giving you the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u26	No, Mr President, we will respond.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u27	Of course you will. I said another one. If you'd like the personal speech too. I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u28	I want thirty seconds, Mr. President. I guess you're confusing me with someone else. Mr. Prudere's inflatable...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u29	I'm not going to be told how to preside. Don't listen to that again. With me in the Chair like that!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, Mr. Pretender's inflatable cost one tenth of your own ship's money. So to have your half a million euro boat - so does your ship, $450,000 - and to sit and suggest to other people, shows the extent of your vulgarity.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u31	You want me to sell it to you now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u32	I'll give you the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u33	As far as the issue of CDS is concerned, you have not understood what I told you. If what you're talking about CDS is true and you believe it, how do you hang out with George Papandreou's best friend, Mr. Cammene? How can you be at the same time the prosecutor of George Papandreou that he bankrupt the country on purpose and at the same time hang out with his friends? Only you can do that, Minister, because you have no moral barrier to doing anything. Unfortunately, however, the Greek people understood. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] With regard to the negotiation that I wanted it not to go well, to be heard on the microphone: the negotiation of the memorandum, which you said you wouldn't even have been dead to someone...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u34	Finish, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u35	So who is in four, Minister, let the Greek people judge it better.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u36	Minister, if you wish to answer, you have the floor for one minute, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u37	The constant effort on the part of the New Democracy by its chosen Chief to make political confrontation with boat prices, with families, with children, as your "boss" business makes, threatening mothers, fathers... You were talking about my father here that he has offshore company, you made headlines, the ILO came out, he checked out, and my father came out completely clean, and he died of his badness that you humiliated him in his eighty-five years. That is where you have become political dialogue. And an apology, you didn't say! And you're coming again. Come and get that ship now. I'll give it to you for five hundred thousand. Aren't you ashamed? Is this the House for such controversy? Come and get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u38	How much is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u39	You said the same thing about my father.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u40	How much is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u41	Remember offshore's papers? And the ILO came and humiliated you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u42	It's me?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u43	And then you'd beg back the lawsuits. Well, that kind of mud is to know that sometime it'll be paid. Two years after Kourtakis ate for slandering my children.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u44	Are these words now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u45	Now, from now on, you'll know you'll pay by lawsuit. Finish that story.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u46	We move to the fifth, with number 1381/1-9-2017, a topical question for the second question by the Member of Parliament, Serres of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.MAR.Michael Jelloni to the Minister of National Defence, on “Emanouel PAPPA camps” and “Pallouka”. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. I won't be tempted to continue the conversation about fantastic scripts. For what has been said over the years about PASOK, the Greek people and their memory also have a crisis about who made career scriptors, saying that his president was in charge of "17 November" or much more. That's why they're convicted of slandering.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u48	I'm sorry to tell you something so you won't say it again. Allow me, Mr President. The theme of "November 17" is something that journalist Papachristos wrote, was convicted...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u49	Minister, I did not give you the floor and then nothing is written at all in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u50	Repeatedly, you have devoured the PASOK and you have the nerve to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u51	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u52	Mr. Jelloney! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u53	To come to the scene now, in relation to the camps.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u54	Mr. Jeleigh, even though you ate your own time, I'm zeroing it to you. I put you two minutes and you talk about "Luca" and "Papalouka" and not about what you said before! Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u55	For the camps located in the urban fabric of Serres City, here, Mr. President, on June 17, 2016, when Law 4407 on the arrangements of the Ministry of National Defence and the exploitation of its real estate was discussed, there was a commitment from this Step of the House by the Minister of National Defence that the agreements that existed would be respected. In fact, he said: 'But can we ever violate the continuity of the state? I assure you that, Mr Jelloney, and don't worry about the Serres. He's not even in programming, and the deal is true. My statement is in the Minutes.' And he says: "We must take advantage of the property, first in the interests of local society, in the interests of citizens, in green places. I wish there were such proposals.’ I present myself to the Minutes and all the position of the Minister. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Jellonis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This agreement was an agreement of 2012 according to which the camps "EMMANUEL PAPPA" and "PAPALOUCA" were transferred to the municipality, provided that forty-five acres from the camp "EMMANUEL PAPA" would have been built in favour of the National Defence Fund. Indeed, this should be more than 5% of the objective value of the camps, even though the original 2012 agreement, which the Minister said would respect, did not provide for that. There is the technical report of assessment of the services of the Municipality and the Town of Serres Prefecture, according to which the objective value is well above 5%. I testify to her in the Minutes, too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Jellonis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And that's not all. We saw that in terms of the property of thirty-eight acres of the camp "EMMANUEL PAPPA", the Ministry of National Defence itself with signatures then by Mr. Stathias says that it is the property of the Municipality of Serres. I'm tabling the decision of the TEDD in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Jellonis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And it comes now - a month ago - the Ministry of National Defence and files a complaint against the Municipality of Serres and claims these thirty acres as well. I'm testifying for the Practicals and Appeals of the City for his own property. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Jellonis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And that's not all. In my dentistry, I will say what was done in connection with the press conference at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u56	What's the question?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u57	I am asking directly, however, Minister: will you keep up with what was committed by the Step of Parliament's plenary on the agreement that existed since 2012 for the assignment of the camps "EMMANUEL PAPPA" and "PALOUCA" to the citizens of the Municipality of Serres?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u58	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u59	I shall reply directly to you, Mr President, as long as the legal framework is accepted. The legal framework is to grant use for ninety years and not to grant ownership. This is provided for in the draft law of the Office for Official Publications of the European Communities. In fact, with a contribution to this concession for ninety-nine years to the municipality of a city, where military personnel can be made homes and represent 5%. That's what we agreed to with the mayor. And tell the story just to know it: In 2012, this agreement was made following a long-term cooperation of the Military Relocation and Relocation Agency and the Municipality of Serres. This agreement refers to the building of the property of the question under Law 2745/1999. Of course, HSM has been abolished, as has Article 1(2) of the Law 96/2000, which provided for a 15-year period of operation of this service. It therefore sends a letter to YAMS on the issue, which is a document, in principle, expressing the assent - then by Mr Avramopoulos - to continue the process of building the camps and, on the other hand, the Municipality of Serres was called upon to draw up the necessary urban studies, in accordance with the forecasts of 2745/1999, but in the context of a mutually beneficial agreement. That was agreed by Mr Avramopoulos. In addition to the two documents, it should be stressed - to remove a trend of misinterpretation - that under no circumstances was a critical decision but an expression of a generally positive position for the continuation of ongoing urbanisation. For any management act under Article 5(1), a decision of the governing authority of the fund, i.e. the Administrative Committee of the ETHC, shall be required. This decision takes precedence over the recommendation by the Ministry of National Defence, which is approved by the Minister of National Defence. Therefore, final competence to adopt any act on the real estate of the ETHE has only the administrative committee, i.e. its management body, as referred to by the Legal Council of the State in question, with the opinion of 238/2006 and not the Minister of National Defence. And in this case, there was no decision of the ETH. Then, during the next three years, the Municipality of Serres proceeds to the relevant planning process, in cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment and YAMS, in the framework of the abovementioned initial consultation and implementation of the law. As a result of these actions, the planning of the "PALOUCA" and "EMMANUEL PAPPA" camps was approved in the spring of 2016, with relevant ministerial decisions, but without precedent of any cooperation or information from the relevant Ministry of the Environment or the Municipality of Serres, although they had been invited in due time in December 2015. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the Minister of National Defence and President of the Independent Greeks is ringing.]] Then, after consulting the Municipality of Serres, a new proposal for an agreement was formulated, on the basis of which the fund in February 2017 submitted a recommendation to the HETH. The change in the address of the ETH was reviewed by the submitted recovery proposal, the Director of the ETH went to Serres on the basis of Law 4407/2016 and the Real Estate Assessment Service. It is established that not all technical and legal elements had been developed in the implementation of the building of the two camps, as approved by the Joint Ministerial Decision, without the necessary cooperation with the ETHC. It is considered unequal to the interests of the fund, as the ultimately attributed percentage of land in favour of the fund is very low and is now located at the most downgraded point of the camp “EMMANUEL PAPA”, which is found out to be out of town. We review the issue in May 2017 and the ETHA, with a view to the implementation of the two camps planning decision, submit a new recommendation to the management committee of the fund, according to which it is proposed for reasons of consistency of the military service to maintain the basic elements of the original first agreement, namely the performance to the Municipality of Serres of the two camps, of thirty-nine thousand nine hundred square meters, which corresponds to 84% of the total built-up area of the two hundred and eighty-five thousand camps of "PAPALUCA" and "EMMANUEL PPA". Secondly, the retention of the ownership of the ETHD of a total built-up area of forty-five thousand seven hundred sixty-sixty-square metres from the EMMANUEL PAPPA camp, which accounts for 16% of the total built-up area. The full implementation of the legislation and, in particular, the texts of town planning provisions, which then provide for an act of implementation and not a mere contract, has as a result the obligation of the Municipality of Serres to compensate for the legitimately justified percentage of built-up land, where in the municipality's urban studies it is additionally retained, that is to say, seventy-one thousand square meters. Nevertheless, acting under the law, showing good mood and flexibility to the Municipality of Serres accepted the mentioned square measures that were entitled, in addition to seventy thousand, not to deprive them of the municipality's planning, but to receive them as compensation in cash or in corporate value.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u60	Minister, you have to close down.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u61	Mr President, please, that's what matters. I'll take my dentistry time as well. Under the current legal regime, in no case can a transfer of ownership of the two camps be made since no provision of the law provides for it anymore, except for the concession of their use for ninety years. In order not to get too much of it, we in this context, in a good mood, have called the mayor. Ms. Kollia, the Minister of Macedonia - Thrace, was also present. Did I tell him? "Mr. Mayor, bring me a piece of your services to prove that what is being built takes such value that it covers 5% of the total estate." He said to me: 'Mr. Minister, we agree, in exchange for me to grant it to you for ninety years'. So we agree with the mayor. I have the mail with the mayor here. I'll give it to you so you can have it all. [[At this point the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos presents for the minutes the above-mentioned correspondence, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The next day he sends me a letter from a tax office, which actually what he says? That the percentage he gives us is 5%, which was not the issue. I'm coming back to the mayor. I say to him: ‘Mr Mayor, it is not what I ask you to do. I ask you to have 5% of the yield of this building block, it will be 5% of the yield of the non-civilised whole.' And that's where we were. He goes to the city council and the opposition presses him and says to him: "No, you won't get a use concession for ninety years. You'll get property." We can't do it. So I tell you, clearly and unequivocally, tomorrow morning - and I invite all the Members of Parliament from all the parties - to come to the ministry, to attend the debate. We are delighted to implement the agreement, to hand over this part of the camp that has been agreed by Mr Avramopoulos, to give us the rest, but that will represent 5% of the value - we also accept that - but it will be given to the municipality for ninety years. After ninety years, the others who will be here, Mr Colleague, may come forward for another ninety-nine years. We can't break the law. Because this camp is not the property of the Ministry of National Defence, I repeat. It is the property of the National Defence Fund, i.e. the stateless and active officials. Let us show goodwill and make it easier for the mayor, because he told me at first that the pressure is from the opposition to get not the concession but the property. To take ninety years of the Serres camps, form them and help us, MOMA. I pledge as Minister MOMA to help make this a nice park for the benefit of the citizens of Serres.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u62	Minister, please close.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u63	And leave the big talk. But what I said, if you will, in the exhibition of Thessaloniki taken by the mayor and continued by the mayor, I cannot say with a pimp, "I take this to you and give it to you by ownership".
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u64	Absolutely understandable.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u65	In use I can give it for ninety years.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u66	Good. You've responded to dentistry, too. Mr. Jelloney, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. In this respect, the Commission considers that the measures in question constituted State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. That is what you have committed yourself, and that is what you said from the Step of the House, that these camps will be excluded from the law that was passed. Compared to 5% of the objective value, the forty-five acres,...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u68	We covered that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u69	That's covered. So what's left? The camp "EMMANUEL PAPPA" is a hundred ninety-two acres and, as the TTHA itself admits, the thirty-nine acres are the property of the Municipality of Serres. You're here to question these, too, and now you're here to file a lawsuit. For the camp "PAPALOUKA", the hundred twenty-four acres are registered in the Land register and are currently shown in the Municipality of Serres. He has the right to make a claim until 2019 - something he did not - on a questionable property regime. Nevertheless, the municipality is coming - the citizens, the citizens of the city of Serres, because it is the property of the people in the camps - and it says that 5% of us are giving it to the National Defence Fund and even to the multiple. The V.E.F.S.'s out. The camps have been built. Minister, if this agreement is not respected, the camps will become a rhetoric. There can be no other use of the camps or the army's money to make use of it alone. At the moment, all that can be done - because you said that the state has been followed up, but we must also have consistency in our speech and, in particular, in Parliament - is to keep up with what you committed in relation to the 2012 agreement. There's an assignment of forty-five acres. So everything else outweighs the requirements of the TEDD. After all, by the six-member committee, the Chief of HNDGS and the two deputy chiefs signed and you, the Minister of Finance and the Chief of HNDGS, did not sign and you did not sign. Half the military leadership has accepted this agreement. I don't know what you broke through and failed your word, but I would ask you to explain - with regard to what you said at the press conference in Thessaloniki, in relation to a pimp from the Serres society that the camps require without consideration. I think it is well known that the citizens of the city of Serres, Macedonian citizens, fought this land up there and freed and the army in there. Five camps we had in the town of Serres, which was the birthplace of the Serres. However, with a dubious property regime, we give the forty-five acres. You have to respect this agreement, because otherwise these camps will be left without any use, without being able to offer the local community something that the urban fabric needs, without being able to offer our children places of entertainment and greenery. And that's why you're responsible.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u70	You have the floor, Minister. There are two, three issues that need to be answered, but in time, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be very brief. First of all, I want to make it clear that there is no law that we can now give out camps. We can give a ninety-nine-year concession. The ninety-nine years isn't enough for the city?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u72	Didn't you say you were committed...?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u73	It's changed the law. There is no legislative framework.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u74	There is Article 13 of Law 4407. You've been beginning to create impressions again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u75	Mr. Jelloney, listen to the answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u76	Stop making impressions, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u77	I'm sorry, do you want a practical answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u78	Mr President, he's been talking for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u79	You don't end up anywhere by yelling. Not even the Seraians who will now listen to the House will understand anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u80	The Seraians have understood from the minister's behavior.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u81	If they've understood, don't interfere.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u82	As regards Article 13, I give you a document from the Legal Intelligence Bank that it has been repealed. The possibility of granting the camp has been abolished. Only concession of use for ninety-nine years. [[At this point, the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos presents for the record the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Now, the ninety-nine years of ownership is exactly the same thing. There is, as you know, no property in England. It's ninety years. We'll put another ninety-nine years. I wish the Municipality of Serres, the citizens of Serres, will do well. I told you to help, and we'd be the way the camp should be. Second, I want to tell you about the thirty-nine acres you said we were suing. Because, as the director here writes to me, then, General Condylis, when we went to check to prepare the ninety-nine-year concession documents, we saw that the thirty-nine acres had, without the consent of the HR, in the Serres' basement, changed owner, with the only signature of the then Prefect Serres of 1965. So the registration in the basement she made in '65 was illegal. It was therefore obliged to bring the TEC to an action in order to legalise the agreement on the concession of all thirty nine acres. Including all thirty-nine acres.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u83	And as far as we're concerned, as well as what we've got!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u84	There will be a concession to use the whole, except for that agreed with Abrahamos, the built-up party, which we will take and make it a residence for military personnel. So our disagreement is ninety years or property. Help you Serres Members too, instead of having a disagreement if we will take it for ninety years or for a hundred and two years. I wish God had us well to live until then. Let's go make the deal, and tomorrow morning the TEDA will be ready to sign and make a decision. There is no need for any controversy of this kind, nor is the Armed Forces unreasonable. We in this built-up place will see that we will shape it in the way it works for the benefit of the staff. We'll build houses for the officers, the officers and their families, and they can't pay rent. It will be for the benefit of the Serres.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u85	And hundreds of Kremasteins on top of us, we can't live ninety years! Before we go to the two topical questions addressed to Mr Blonde, the Minister for Health, I would like to make this announcement. Congressman Nikolaos Dendias is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad from 18 September to 19 September 2017, for personal reasons. The Member, George Kasapidis, shall request a leave for absence abroad from 21 September to 30 September 2017. The Member, Mr Georgios Katsiantonis, also seeks a leave from abroad from 18 September to 26 September 2017. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u86	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations. We will continue with the first with number 1460/11-9-2017 in the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Jason Fotella, on the subject: “The Local Health Teams (TOM) in the “requested” by doctors”. You have the floor, Mr. Lightla.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it has been two months since the day you passed the bill on primary health, and unfortunately, it seems, the staffing of the TOMYs is evolving into a truly volcano, I would say, for the government, and let you assure the government a few days before that. We've waited two years to see this famous, infamous, reforming primary health care, and what have you achieved? Looks like the treasure's carbon! All you have achieved is to create confusion, insecurity, frustration and further, I would say, anger in the medical sector. And I'm very afraid, Minister, that with such initiatives we will manage the opposite. That is, instead of bringing our people and doctors from abroad, our young people, we're going to get rid of more and more. Now you're going to a second extension of a call for staffing of the TOMMs. In other words, the "25th of August" became "8 September" and it will obviously be at the end of October, since all applications submitted reach six hundred out of the thousands of ninety-five, that is, half. But let us also see the numbers through the assurances that they have asked for medical treatment from their associations and that we cannot question them. And to say that those who requested and received a certificate doesn't necessarily mean they're making an application. They got a certificate. In the District of Attica, a hundred ninety - five posts were announced by the medical association, ninety - eight attestations were requested, twenty - nine by general doctors, thirty by pathologists. In Thessaloniki, out of four, the fifty - three generals and twenty - seven pathologists asked for a certificate. In Patras it is planned to open 10 TOMY. Forty positions were declared and the medical association requested sixteen, ten general and six pathologists. Finally, a hundred twenty-five seats were declared in Crete and a certificate was issued only twenty-nine. Participation, i.e. around 23% in Crete. I also put the relevant document from the various associations across the country. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Jason Fotillas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A bit of your tolerance, Mr President. Minister, I'm very afraid the medical industry has mostly rejected this very plan. You yourself were initially talking about a huge interest in the medical world and just a few days ago you yourself in SKAI frankly said that it failed, at least in the first phase, this project. And I'd like to hear where you really think you can find the six hundred missing doctors to create 30% of the FTLs, which is about one/3 of the country, that is 30% of the 30%. Think we should've made it all. From there on, I would like you to tell me a few words about the various practices that are being heard and various complaints that have been made, which have been implemented by the Ministry. I'm not talking about the sms, which you called on various doctors to find unemployed doctors and ask for family doctors, but here I'm talking about the threats that the doctors of the association of doctors have received. They filled the headlines. I have here another relevant post - I'm putting it down for the Minutes - from the complaints. [[At this point the Member, Mr Jason Fotillas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You know what they say? That Mr. Bardaros threatened them, saying that "If you do not go and accept, then you will reduce what you will receive from the EEAS and will not be EUR 10 mixed and 3 clean...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u88	Finish, Mr. Lightla.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u89	I shall conclude, Mr President. So, after this refusal by doctors, I would like you to tell me, Minister: Is it true that we have only accepted six hundred applications and how they are distributed by specialty? Secondly, are the complaints made by ECYY doctors, as well as the involvement of a high-ranking official, the gentleman you mentioned, to them and, if so, do you adopt them? And thirdly, in what ways do you think you can fill out the missing places for the original TOMY? If it's so hard to cover them, how will you manage to complete the plan? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u90	Minister, with the relative tolerance you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u91	My dear colleague, first of all, I am impressed at the so-called anxiety on the part of the New Democracy over the implementation of a regulation and a law which it has voted against, considering it to be an inappropriate interference, in view of the fact that it is an intervention of extreme state. Some of your rapporteurs also talked about 'Soviet-type structures and perceptions'. In any case, I think it would have been a problem if a few months had passed since the draft was passed and no progress had been made. You could accuse us, because we have left the law inactive and that all this intervention is on paper. You know very well that three or four days after the law was passed came out, a joint declaration which had particular elements of transparency, dignity and innovation in terms of electronic submission, mobilisation. From the outset, the candidate knew when applying, on the basis of the reported evidence, the moulation he was receiving, etc. This is a process which has been respected reverentially, it has been done under the auspices of the AACC, and a few days ago we announced the final result, which, for some two thousand nineteen posts of doctors and other staff, submitted some twenty-three thousand applications of health professionals, scientists, nurses, UCLAFs, social workers, health visitors, graduates from various university schools for administrative and financial posts, those who said they would be a party army of SYRIZA, people who simply claim with dignity and on the basis of their qualifications a place in a new institution, which is moving on. And we're on the subject of doctors. Apparently not all of the doctors' positions were covered. This was from the outset perhaps and expected, because we knew very well that we have already appointed about two thousand two hundred ASs over the last two years in the health system, we have appointed about a thousand permanent doctors from the ESS, acting out older crises and promoting what we announced last year, we have the potential of almost all general doctors who end the specialty, about fifty people in every batch of posts declared for outdoor service, i.e. fifty of them, about two hundred per year general doctors occupy regional doctors throughout the country - and it has completely changed the composition and staffing of regional doctors today throughout Greece - where about 2/3 of them are now qualified general doctors and are not skilled rural doctors. And, of course, there is the most important problem, which is the very large wave of medical immigration over the last five years - six years, which has led thousands of doctors abroad, and therefore there is an objective difficulty in covering positions that are announced not only for the new primary health care system, but also for permanent posts, especially in areas of island, barren and difficult to reach. The evidence provided to you by medical clubs, which are almost working as your state-of-the-art penitentiaries and who are trying in every way to falsely sabotage and sabotage this change, have nothing to do with the applications submitted. We have a very large accumulation of applications in Athens and Thessaloniki, we have almost covered the target of the children, two hundred nineteen out of the two hundred nine seats, and we have a deficit, especially in general doctors and pathologists. And of course, our intention is with the number of doctors who have already applied for, with a proper management and distribution of them being able within the next two months, which will complete the procedure of objections and final tables, to put in place a very large percentage, I would say almost half of the structures immediately.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u92	Minister, the rest in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u93	And, of course, we have the opportunity to repeat the proclamation, especially for doctors, in order to enable young doctors who end this period of specialisation, who test in September and October, young general doctors, pathologists and pediatricians, to claim a decent job in the public health system, with an introductory degree of curator I, a very strong economic incentive and a term that can reach up to four years. It is a programme financed by European resources - we have explained this too much - but because we believe that both its health and social benefit will be very quickly identifiable and measurable...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u94	Mr. Minister, close. Another tolerance to take twice as much time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u95	Allow me, Mr President. I'm done. ... will ensure in every way its funding and its sustainable prospects.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u96	Before I give Mr Foetla the floor, I would like to say that the medical clubs are legal persons. They operate by decision of their boards, and they are not advanced prisoners of any party. Mr. Fotella, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u97	Minister, you are badly surprised at our agony, because our agony is not for your bill. Our agony is for patients. And you know why? While you play, - why games and stings are what you do - in Patras, for example, the deficiencies have hit red. Three months is without an ophthalmologist. The neurologist's gone. The psychiatrist's gone. Rio is five-and-a-half hours waiting for the U.R. world. At the "Agios Andreas" Hospital, where all of you tagged, the situation is marginal and instead of going to nurses, which you have, in hospital, to help with the situation in the O.R., you send administrative staff to the U.S. Right now in Patras is twenty. So that's what makes us feel more anxious. You just confessed that you made a notice, which you knew would not have any success before, and you simply tell us. You're saying it was expected that the notice would be unsuccessful. Why did you do it, Minister? I don't understand. Cost some money to make that call. We don't make the announcements for fun. You also say that you will expect to solve the problem with the new students who are now ending and their specialties. How many of them are going to solve the problem? Actually, you miss half the doctors. Leave the numbers you're telling us now that they're twenty-three thousand. For the doctors to tell us, not the administrative staff. There is no doubt that you will find administrative staff. Doctors wanted to see if you could find out. So you miss half the doctors. So the solutions are either to give a new notice, a new extension - but I do not find the reason why someone should suddenly be interested from day to day - or to give them more. But here, what do we have next? Two gear doctors? One call will give something below and the next one will give something more? The third and last solution, which sounds already, is to get agricultural doctors and doctors from health centers and take them a little from here, a little from there, until people die. These are, there's no other way. From there, I'm very afraid, Minister, you won't find the doctors. As it turns out you didn't find them. You confessed to SKAI, with more honesty than you confess here today. There is also the question of the buildings that you personally raised. Because here, too, we hear you're in trouble. I would just like to hear a few words on the subject of buildings, that is, where the TOMYs will be housed. But I would like to hear one truth, Minister, because I hear and hear again from the Prime Minister and from you that you have covered the uninsured. But when I challenged Mr. Polakis to present to the House even a documentary uninsured citizen, whether Greek or Greek, or legally resident in the country, who will be after 2-6-2014, he told me that he would bring me and even told me that I would ask him for an apology for every documentary he would bring me. Finally, he filed only two documents in the Minutes. One is the service in the first of 2014, because he had forgotten to take out the certificate of Law 105 that he had to sign and the other is an illegal immigrant. That's the reality. Say at last, even now, a truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u98	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u99	To keep in touch with the reality, Mr. Fotella, the party in which you are currently in...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u100	You know of this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u101	...when he was in government in 2014, he persecuted three thousand qualified doctors from the public health system.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u102	And you promised them you'd take them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u103	Mr. Fotella, don't do this again. He didn't interrupt you half a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u104	And it has led to a dissolution of public primary health care structures in urban centres. This intervention was a catalyst for disorganising the public health system, for there to be what we call passive privatisation and for the citizens to be transferred enormous costs, who have now been looking for private services. So leave this for compelling and retiring. What you're doing was forced decommissioning. One of the prisoners. Secondly, what we are doing is creating after twenty years new structures in the public health system. The last health centers were built in the 1990s. After twenty years, then, we have new structures, which will obviously be gradually developed on the basis of both the number of doctors involved and the available spaces that are currently being prepared. So don't worry. We these days process the data and very soon we will tell you exactly how many new local health units will develop throughout Greece. That's your problem. You understand very well that these structures, which are decentralised, will be close to the citizen, will have an extrovert, take preventive actions, provide holistic care, allow easy referral to the other levels of functioning of the health system, do school hygiene, make environmental hygiene, for the first time shift the centre of gravity to disease prevention and not just to care, as it has so far - this great deficit in the public health system in our country - very quickly will be embraced by local communities and have a multiplier effect on the proper functioning of the ESS. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] So that's the reality. I fear what the New Democracy Chief of State's understanding of health issues is. After all, his point of view was clear from yesterday's interview was clear. The primary health care, my dear fellow Member, is a programme of equality and Mr Mitsotakis said yesterday that social inequalities are contrary to human nature. Primary health care, the declaration of Alma Ata, the objectives of the World Health Organisation, the UN's sustainable development objectives speak of equality in health and a means to enforce this equality is primary health care. That's actually what you're urging. You have in mind a model of free competition, of the market, of privatisation, which broadens social inequalities. That is the essence of your political problem. It disturbs you that the public system widens its presence and influence in an area that was almost entirely granted to the private sector, it disturbs you...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u105	Finish, Minister. Finish!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u106	...added structures, doctors, health professionals are added to the public health system. Obviously, we're going to continue. They will even understand the value of political intervention...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u107	Minister, finish it up. I'm telling you for the last time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. So I conclude by saying that, unlike you who have closed down structures, which you have persecuted doctors, who have placed staff in availability and insecurity, we support today's structures. It is very interesting that the primary care structures in urban centres and health centres have been strengthened by some two hundred supplementary doctors. Now we're calling new places...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u109	Minister, you have said that in the prototype! I'll turn you off the microphone. Excuse me!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u110	This is where he told us about Mr. Polakis. Irrelevant things!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u111	All right, we're done. Shut up!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u112	Four hundred and fifty-five positions of permanent doctors of the ERC in the hospitals of the country...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u113	You've done it in your prototype!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u114	This is an intervention of support and priority in public care, and it seems to be bothering you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u115	Please! You think the polylogy is getting better. It can't be done. Not even with the repetitions! We conclude with the second question number 1462/11-9-2017 in the first cycle of the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “Dangerous lack of cardiologist and surgeon at the Centre for Health of Karpathos”. Here, Mr. Kremastein, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u116	It is undeniably nice, Mr President. As you know, I despise 'we' and 'you' and 'will', not for any other reason, but because they do not lead anywhere. People are tired, and it doesn't draw any conclusions. But I was in Karpathos a few days ago, and the agony of the world was that the cardiologist, who was in the unique health center left it, abandoned it and became private. And the surgeon, who was there, died and was not replaced. So there are two main areas which are of special interest, because if someone has a heart attack in Karpathos right now - it is an island where the population is quadrupled in the summer - it is obliged to deal with medical directives in the 1970s and 1980s. Imagine that doctors at the health center told me they have thrombolytics, but they don't use them because they're not cardiologists. I tried as a cardiologist to encourage them, not to be afraid and to use them. The second is accidents. The population is quadrupled in summer by tourism. The accidents, if there is no surgeon - orthopaedic, do not exist - how will they be treated? Of course, the Minister will tell me that positions have been declared - and that is right - but they are not going. That's true. But that's not the problem. The problem is that there must be a way to get doctors there tomorrow, if possible, by transferring, by law, with anything. We are talking about a place that is in the Aegean, but is essentially involved in the economy, because you can imagine that together with Rhodes it has been excluded from the equation of VAT, because it has revenues. As a result, we have to find a way for people to go there, because we are not now oppositioning saying that there is no psychiatrist, neurologist, urologist, ORL, etc. We are talking about basic things, and that is the basic thing. In my denture, if the Minister responds positively, I have nothing to say. But if we start talking again about how many were appointed, and so on, we are not driving anywhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u117	Minister, here you go, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u118	My dear colleague, you are coming back - and you are doing well - to problems with the staffing of health units mainly involving the island country. This is a huge deficit in the health system and - I think - the state as a whole. I mean that so far we have not managed to find an effective grid of motives of all categories - economic, social, development, education - which are attractive, beyond the traditional policing of the medical body and enable the gaps to be covered in the islands and in the barren areas. To a large extent - and I return to the previous speech because it is relevant - the inability to cover all the posts that we have opened up, many of which were in such areas, namely Kos, Samos, Lesvos, Lesvos, in many Aegean islands, is precisely this difficulty and weakness, although we have made several contributions. You know very well that we have given the special allowance of four hundred euros for some four hundred regional doctorates. The truth is that more than a long-standing gap has been covered. Recently we passed a arrangement that unlocks the people who were locked up for fifteen and twenty years on an island and enables them to move to a county of their choice towards the center after five years. This is very important and is, in our view, an incentive to go to serve a term and then have the prospect of going somewhere closer to home and home. We have given further incentives for increased calculation of pre-service time. However, these gaps exist. Karpathos is an island that has a health center so far. You know very well that with ESRB money the building of a new hospital was funded. Some time ago we passed the arrangement of this new hospital. What we are doing with this regulation is that we have avoided the need to have a presidential decree establishing and setting up this new hospital, precisely to speed up the process. With his new organization, which is now under the service of the Ministry, we will provide more positions and will have a prospect of operating upgrading this structure and all the care of the local residents. Nowadays, ten doctors are serving, dear colleague. It's a lot of specialties. Indeed, with regard to these specialties, which you mentioned today, there is neither a cardiologist nor a surgeon. I do not want to give an easy answer that on too many islands and on too many health centres throughout the country there is neither a cardiologist nor a surgeon. The position of the cardiologist has, however, been declared. I have been informed that they are to the rapporteurs and we will speed up with the second Health Region the procedures so that the crisis can be completed and recruited, because I think there are sixteen who have applied. As for the surgeon's position, which has recently been vacated due to death, we have launched its proclamation. We talked about it with the Second Health Region. There was no possibility of moving from neighbouring hospitals, especially in the summer season, doctors of these specialties. However, we believe that with the existing doctors, which is ten, plus a dentist, plus two now that, with the last announcement of agricultural doctors, they will cover two empty regional medicine, the human potential is being strengthened. Nineteen people are served in nursing care and other personnel. In other words, we have a total of thirty workers, doctors and other health care workers, who we think give decent care to the people in the region.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u119	Mr. Kremastein, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u120	I said if there was a direct placement of doctors, I wouldn't have a second. However, I must say that the only cardiologist there is now, but he left the health centre and became a private person. The same thing happens elsewhere. At Kos features - you know, Minister - for ten years there have been childcare posts and the outside pediatricians have been five people at the moment who don't want to go to the hospital. Others are appointed and then they find their place abroad and leave because pay is better. I believe that the problem of the islands must be solved in two ways. One is to say that they are excluded from what is the case with other NSH doctors, that is to say, that these individuals can do more or more? - to be in the health center too. It's not the big hospital to say that it's going to be exploited in the world. What exploitation of the world? This is where people die because there's no cardiologist. By leaving the health center, Minister, I was called by two excellent general medical doctors because there was a lady in atrial fibrillation. Of course I said what I had to say, according to my own knowledge. The problem, however, is not solved. I offered you to the Ministry - it was Mr. Paulakis - to develop the tertiary telemedicine. If, for example, there was a tertiary telemedicine, not today's form, that is, a hospital - "brain" enriched with more doctors, in which they invent telemedicine, could, for example, from "Attica" the doctor specializing in telling the doctor of Karpathos: "Do thrombolysis, do that, do that and I take responsibility", because there is direct communication and you will solve your problem. When you're proclaiming positions, they go or they don't go. Once they go, they see that outside is more money and leave or leave the post and go abroad, because that's what happens. You realize she's like a cat chasing her tail. You can't solve the problems like that. You are getting away from this narrow framework, which, if you like, I, as Minister, had implemented it. Today, things have changed. Today, free-marketed, our new doctors are getting out and going abroad and you can't keep them if they find a place. So, look at this different thing. Third generation telemedicine is the proposal of mine and liberalisation in a way of private doctors' relations with the hospital. We have reached the point when I was chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, to propose - and it was accepted by the ministers at the time - that private doctors should be able to call in blocks and do not go now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u121	I got it. It's voted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u122	Well done, it was Mr. Loverdos. The doctors didn't go there, it didn't work for them. They didn't, anyway. Now I'm talking about Kos, not Karpathos, because problems are common. Look at the problem more liberal, let me be allowed to speak. It's no different. Otherwise we will say here what we say every time and discuss for centuries without solving the problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u123	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u124	My dear colleague, I appreciate that there is a need to reflect on how we can really overcome these difficulties, the well-known and time-consuming, which exist even during the period when there were no great cuts in the salaries of the doctors of the ESS. First of all, there is a framework today and it applies. We've hired several doctors with a block of blocks, mostly to do on-calls in departments that have limiting staff and risk not being able to cover for the whole month. So there is today. In fact, we have extended it, even though we consider it to be a precarious employment relationship. In specific cases and with the approval of the Minister - we do not want to abuse - where there is a documented need, we consent to moving forward in this relationship and to recruiting for a specific job either doctors or other health professionals, which we do systematically in areas that are not responding to. Now, for the rest of the time telemedicine is a solution. Already the second sanitary district has installed about twenty telemedicine cabins. Some of them are working, some are not working. There's an unwillingness even by medical staff to train, etc. The possibility is there. The reference hospitals have also been found here in Lefkanos that can support. It is an unprecedented story that needs constant effort and continuing education, so that this system can be operational. There is the question of improving the level of aerospace. You know very well that we have made a second aerospace base in Syros and we are preparing a third, beyond Rhodes, that is, on the islands of the northeastern Aegean, in Mytilini. We are now thinking, through an important sponsorship that we will receive from the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, a part of it to go towards the renewal and upgrading of the equipment and equipment of the EKA. With this place we want to strengthen the possibility of fast crossing incidents, which really need specialized secondary care, etc. A third tool, which we are using, is the assistance of the Armed Forces. There's a CIA, we've activated it. We are in agreement with the Ministry of National Defence, demanding mainly islands that have long been vacant in their regional hospitals and the world is totally helpless. Usually, in the context of their capabilities, the Armed Forces respond. They are already serving twenty-five with about thirty armed doctors who are in Forns, Thymana, and various other islands and difficult places throughout Greece. That's what we're trying to do. We will try to proclaim the vacancies, enable young doctors to claim a place of dignity and dignity in the public system. From there on, in my view, we must open up a more serious debate in the Committee on Social Affairs, but wherever you think otherwise, in order to place the political forces and draw up an integrated plan to address health problems in the areas of the islands.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u125	Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY Question No 14/12/16-3-2017 by the President of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Fotinis (Phot) Genomes, of the MPs of this group, etc. Friday Christophilopoulos, Georgios Arvanitides, Evangelos Venizelos, Leonida Gregorakos, Athanasios Theocharopoulos, Ilhan Ahmet, Vasilios Kegeroglou, Charulas (Haras), Kefichidou, Yannis Koutsoukou, Dimitrios Kremastinos, Odysseas Constantinopoulou, Dimitrios Konstantopoulos, Andreas Loverdou, Ioannis Manatis, Theodoros Papatheodorou, Constantine Scandalidis, Michael Jelle and Constantinople, as well as the three Independent Members of Parliament, etc. Theocharis (Chris) Theocharis, Georgiou - Dimitrios Karras and Catherine Markos, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr Efi Ahtsioglou, on the subject: "Previous delays in the awarding of pensions, salt with contributions and blocks, administrative chaos to EFCA". The floor will take the first question, Attica MEP of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulou for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u127	Mr President, will you tell us the procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u128	First the seven nominated by the questioning party will speak. Of course, because Mrs. Gennamas signs, she might want to talk. Immediately afterwards, the Minister or the State Secretary shall reply. Subsequently, the PASOK Parliamentary spokesman Mr Loverdos, then Mr Mandas, then Mr Brutsis, will be here until the parliamentary representatives are exhausted. Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr President. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, since March, a number of months have passed and new communiqués have been passed with pension cuts. So, Minister, you will understand that this question now, to be timely, takes a broader character than that of the March text. Mr President-in-Office, you have lost a great opportunity and I am sorry to say that. You have lost the opportunity to make a big change in insurance, which will become a change with perspective and continuity. We called on you - your predecessor, Minister - to do the same - in the autumn of 2015, by making ourselves dialogue and by provoking here in Parliament the experts that Mr Katrugalos had chosen and discussed the House of Greeks, or even the committees, the great issue of the sustainability of the insurance system, the dignity of pensions and, of course, the incentives for insurance for young people, so as not to go to insurance laws. And what happened? What exactly happened? The question is relentless. How was the insurance burdened to the point where your account, the SYRIZA - ANEL account, has reached 5.5 billion euros? Ladies and gentlemen, we have EUR 2.3 billion of the insurance burden from the third memorandum and EUR 2.2 billion from the fourth memorandum and all this with pension cuts and unbearable contributions, as we will show. So you refused the dialogue. You've made a pretext and a communication dialogue. And what was the result? It was a law that you also amended, Mrs Ahtsioglu, who went to mass poverty. The first target was no more than the middle class. You've accepted all middle-incomes. Approximately four hundred thousand pensioners who were retired, passing through the wall, saw their pensions cut. And, of course, more characteristic, you didn't stop in the middle class. You've cut the N.C.E.S. You abolished it for three hundred thousand low pensioners, ladies and gentlemen of the so-called Left! And not only that, but you have turned your arrows, as the troika has indicated, because some before you resisted - the widows and orphans, but, of course, also the disabled. The fourth memorandum, bearing your signature, added new reductions of 18% in pensions. The personal differences which Mr Katrugalos expressed and which Mr Katrugalos said "we are not going to hurt them", have been definitively lost from time to time and then for retired people. Of course, an additional blow - and we do not forget that, because we will come to how you are implementing all of this - is none other than temporary pensions, which you cut them to 50% of the 80% under the 2011 Law, the Loverdou-Koutrumani. And with these pensions today, as they have been cut, with 200 and 300 euros, you say that a man can live! Don't you ask these families better how they're going through? And many wait even many months for the temporary pension and wait years for the main pension. We have introduced temporary pensions because, yes, there have been some delays, but in no case the delays now experienced by pensioners and, above all, the young pensioners who have made their application. About forty thousand retired people have been waiting for many years. With the former regime, a pensioner with successive insurance waited for about a year and we considered it very much and there was criticism and rightfully. And you criticized us then, gentlemen of SYRIZA. And now you want three years! Please, Mr. Ministers, tell me how many successive pensions you have given and how many pensions you have given. Transversal pensions, not one. Because you haven't removed the circular. Not even one! The first pension decision, based on the Katrugalou law, was issued a year later. You calculated forty thousand pensions so far, in September. How many have been issued, ladies and gentlemen? About seven thousand. These are the great achievements of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. I come quickly to the issue of contributions, where in the first place the Katorugalou law put the creative, special, for medium-sized traders, craftsmen, farmers, scientists. There are cases where we had 38% and 40% of their income decreased. Now, in the fourth memorandum, we had the finest 'contribution to the contribution'. That is, a contribution to non-existent income. You have said so, you have signed it, you have voted on it. The Katrugalou Law said that we will have in 2018 revenues of 137 million of these increased contributions and 138 million for 2019, while in the fourth memorandum we have an additional 53 million for 2018 and an additional 124 million for 2019. Good for you! You voted for everything! Yeah, everything! I am presenting two items in the Minutes from two clearing houses of two free professionals, which are substantiated by the large reduction in their income and the heavy burden. In the first case, we have a professional whose contribution from EUR 225 per month in 2016 amounts to EUR 752 per month. In the second case we have a free professional who from 350 euros per month in 2016 amounts to 558 euros per month in 2017. They are, of course, the ones who say to Mr Petropoulos or Mr Balafa on the road that you have benefited from us. [[At this point the honourable Member, Mrs Christophilopoulou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But remember how the story was written. Then we said to you: "Let's bring before the Law Loverdus - Koutrumanis", which had a proportionate study, documented and accepted by the institutions and by the European Commission and ELA - contrary to your laws, which we have not seen - "and come to discuss". And, yeah, we were just thinking about putting back on the hard stuff. What did you do? You did what I've already described. Ladies and gentlemen, let us remember that heavy mail Hardouvelis. The institutions then, which had repeatedly put on the table many issues for widows, and we resisted two things: the integration of the insurance funds into three funds - because we had resisted and reminded ourselves of our proposal for three funds - and the zero deficit clause, which you smashed with false and propaganda, falsely, that it was a great plunge for the subsidiary. The total cost was 7%, under half a billion, and you brought 5.5 billion euros to the insurance total. Those were the lies that you were based on when the PASOK then had vetoed on this subject. And I come to the FBI, where his problem is giggled. Here too, ladies and gentlemen, I will be allowed to award the Government a prize for Ginas. I'm not in charge, but I think she really deserves it. It's the Gina amendment award. This is not a law. 'Language law' we have said it, 'extension', we have said it, but here it is 'curly'. Because the famous reform law of Katrugalo - I remind you of Mr Katrugalo who said 'I am proud of insurance' and 'we only have good consequences' - was so good, ladies and gentlemen, that seventy-eight articles were amended and we have a hundred and seven provisions that are amended. Look at this! I'll testify for the Minutes. [[At this point the Member, Mrs Christophilopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We have four pages with modifications to the law, which began shortly after the resolution of the Katrugalou law and now ended in the working bill that we voted on. That's it! That is the great reform you have brought!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u130	Don't take an oath it's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u131	And I'm finishing this part with the FBI, saying that in fact unification is on paper and it's on top. Because regional services remain the same, and it is the chaos and so much the suffering of the insured, who really doesn't know either of them or the other where they will be today and where they will be tomorrow. That is why you have passed an unacceptable arrangement, so that the Minister can send one employee to another, when the Council of State, for a similar case in IKA, has made it unconstitutional. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like two or three minutes more.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u132	As the first rapporteur, I do not take time from your dentistry. But in two minutes, hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u133	Okay. But I need to point out that we in the Democratic Partnership, beyond criticism and beyond our own proposals on insurance and unemployment and on growth and investment, are not stopping there. We're also doing some work for you, and let's be Opposition. There are these "special" injustices of Katrugalo law that you refuse to improve, with the top example of widows. Allow me, in two minutes, to deposit two widow's pensions. Because we heard Mr. Petropoulos here saying that "no problem will arise, the widows will have from 2019 onwards". So take two pensions from two widows, who are currently receiving, together with the child's allowance, together with the pension for the child, EUR 345, ladies and gentlemen. [[At this point the honourable Member, Mrs Christophilopoulou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We are going to put our own amendment back. Take a look at this. See it and accept our proposal to return to the former regime. I don't have another copy. Please be given to everyone in charge.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u134	Don't worry. It will be filed, initialized and distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u135	I conclude, Mr President, by calling on you, at least, to lift these injustices. Because, otherwise, the insurance bill and all of your laws now, these cut-offs, this "walk-wrecked" are a summation of neoliberal cuts, where you accepted them by beating the middle. The Greek people had to pay the "Varoufakada" this tragic 2015! It was counter-insurance arrangements which gave young people a counter-insurance and, of course, a series of specific injustices to which I have referred. So we don't expect anything from you. The way you've done it, maybe the best thing you'd have to do was get out of here before the Greek people kick you out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u136	Madam President, Madam Gennamata, I have been informed that as the first signatory you might wish to take the floor. Do you want to?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u137	Later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u138	Later, fine. I invite the second signatory, Mr. Constantine Barriota. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, insurance is one of the biggest problems in the country and at the same time is one of the most characteristic examples of how the situation in Greece has evolved over at least thirty years and perhaps because we have entered the crisis. The insurance is at the heart of the debt crisis, which began in 2009-2010 and which continues to tempt the country, both at the level of mentality, that is, in the way that society, political forces, social partners handled a problem, which was known since the 1990s, as well as in its economic elements, as well as in trade union and political practices. It was, therefore, known since 1990, that insurance does not come out, in the common sense. Demographic, unemployment, distortions are things that have been discussed several times. They were producing proportionate studies, the projections of which were retrospectively confirmed at the crisis threshold in 2010. We met where it was specified to be, as soon as almost Greek society and consistently all parties, with the exception of a small piece around Yannitsi and the Prime Minister of the country of the time Mr Simitis, they rejected violently small changes in relation to today's reality, thus continuing to run the distortions in the way they were running. In the next period, during the Karamanlis government period, only one element is characteristic: from 2006 to 2009 71.3 billion or 83% of the country's budgetary deficit for this period went directly to pensions. 80% of the debt growth at the same time was due to pension imbalances and the need for the budget to cover pensions in the same way as they were. With simply Greek: no insurance deficit, we wouldn't have a memorandum. The tragic thing is that we have and still have one of Europe's most problematic and unfair insurance systems. It may be the worst. We have therefore entered the crisis and because of the insurance and insurance industry at the same time falling apart. And the fact that no one bothered to amend it until 2009 brought it to the forefront of destruction. Eight years later, we haven't solved it. It seems that today, when we are discussing the same thing again, the famous Katorugalos law obviously cannot solve it. The parties of today's government, and especially SYRIZA, reminded me that they had a violent contribution to overthrowing any attempt to reform insurance in all years that have passed and especially since 2012, where they were established with the head of Minister Katrugalo, across the Syntagma square, they hung - virtually I mean - anyone who was trying to reform or discuss reforms of the insurance system. I think that at times some eggs were falling and also some violent actions are given evidence. But let's leave that. In the crisis, then, the last one to understand the problem was the Prime Minister on the night of the resolution of the third memorandum, where we passed from 'no reduction in pensions, no increase in time, no increase in contributions' - which was the motto of SYRIZA for many years - in that famous phrase by the Prime Minister I confess that I listened with great surprise - then I ceased to be surprised by the Prime Minister, but until that time in August 2015 I was surprised - who said: 'But who does not know that the insurance system does not come out?' Apparently everyone else except him until that moment. So, although accepting the need for a major reform, even late, it is welcome, instead of triggering a sincere debate on the government's side that would lead to the creation of an insurance system that is viable and stable for the next twenty-five years - because that is what it is all about - it preferred to re-press the problem under the carpet. And after threw the previous law into the trash - the Law of Loverdus as it is known - and after flying into the garbage and the Sages' finding in the autumn of 2015, it proceeded to an insurance reform, which is a little peculiar and the truth is that it has achieved many goals so far at the same time, i.e. also reductions in pensions up to 30% by 2019 and an extension of cuts to everyone, as the famous personal difference until it was created was abolished. Who really remembers Mr. Katrugalos' promises from this Step forward that increases will result from 2018 in personal differences? No one remembers it. And he managed to turn the insurance contribution into a raisin, due to a tax crisis, really derailing both contributions and collectivity, which has collapsed. With two words, the system is anachronistic, first. Of today's new workers, they are asking to work harder, to pay more, to take less - if they take - by driving pensions to even greater cuts, which have also been unjust by substantially maintaining the distortions that existed and which have not been corrected. In fact, what he was trying to do is transfer the problem to after 2018. Turns out he couldn't make it in 2017. On the other hand, in the other very large part, which was the creation of EFKA, which is something that has been discussed in Greece since the era of Eleftherios Venizelos, led to the complete disorganization of the mechanisms of the funds and a huge salt. I had said from the beginning, and we all said that this is a titanic project. In my opinion, this goes beyond the possibilities of the Greek administration, even in conditions of normality, and many more in crisis. If you were to ask, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Flampouraris, he would tell you it's like the Yunker package. He wants business plan, which he didn't exist. It also wants investments in time, in money, in resources, it needs planning, it needs preparation, it wants to develop a single digital environment beforehand, it wants organograms, which are not yet available, it has not been created, a year and a half later. What we have seen as a whole was a salt: incomplete calculation for pensions, chaos in the OGA, administrative chaos in mechanisms, which are trying to de facto to reconcile themselves in a way that is neither designed nor predictable can evolve for decades - unfortunately - the services will try to close the holes that opens up the sloppyness of this supposed reform.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u140	Mr. Barriott, I'm telling you, I've put you in the time of your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u141	I'm done. You'll only give me a minute for dentistry. The main problem is neither pension cuts nor increases in contributions. It is that this type of inability to reform is blowing up the key element, which is the confidence of workers in the public insurance system in the country. In practical terms and simply Greek, no one today believes that the contributions they pay will give him a decent pension if they give him a pension. That is the essence of the problem, as it is now being completed. It is a national need to finish insurance as a country, not as a government. It is a national need to lead us to a fair, sustainable insurance system, both realistic for workers and especially for pensioners. It sounds difficult and it is, but there are no easy solutions. There are no popular solutions. There are sustainable and non-viable solutions. That is the criterion that must be applied. There is convergence, dialogue and discussion, outside ideological and policies and outside divisive logic, in which this government has an excellent record and excellent behaviour, in divisive, red lines and have forgotten about them. No one can solve the insurance policy, no political force on its own. Without a wider agreement on the basic parameters, every two years we will turn back and discuss pension cuts, increases in insurance contributions and the chaos of the insurance funds, which will be recycled. What we have to do is try to find a consensus solution together. If not with this government, which the work refuses, certainly in the next circle of this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u142	Mr Michael Jéflés, Member of the Serres, has the floor. Do you want to use dentistry too?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u143	I think so.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u144	All right, let's start and see.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical question tabled by the Democratic Integration is being discussed in the House today, and the environment has now been shaped by the implementation of the Single Social Security Agency. When Armageddon Katrugalo was voted on insurance, we then heard a lot of great words - 'black' - about the newly established Social Security Agency. I remember then here from the Step forward, Mr Katrugalo, guaranteeing the body's functionality, blaming the opposition that it is sowing fear and terror to the citizens, that there will be no increase in insurance contributions or a reduction in pensions and much more. The malignancies for the Single Social Security Agency, to simplify procedures and all that, which we heard when we voted on this law once again in one of the most neural sectors of public administration, that of social security, have unfortunately proved summer night dreams in practice at the expense of the Greek people. The government, as on all matters, is trying to present its interventions to insurance as an approach to class, which leads to the protection of the poor, once again trying to deceive the citizens. For the first time, intervention in insurance creates so many negative consequences in the economy, with the extreme increase in contributions for freelance professionals and farmers. Every business is heavily affected, and unemployment will soon be the major problem again. This intervention in insurance was a counter-reform, instead of a reform, which led to a complete demolition of the social security system and its conversion into a pro-active low-cost system at very high costs for the worker, the professional and the farmer in particular. Today, once again, you are confronted with your choices. However, before I move on to the malfunctions of EVA, I would like to remind you again in the form of questions that you do not want to hear, and you say'swine grapes'. Well, no, you will now eat these sour grapes, see where the third pension went, where the tax-free 12 000 euros went, the restoration of the cuts, wages, pensions, the programme of Thessaloniki, the slitting of memoranda with an article and a law, where the second parallel programme went, because today with the chaos that you have created, don't think that all this will be forgotten with crowns on the part of the ministers, because these, before you take over the power, were your flag. We must now come to a sensitive insurance agency, the OGA, where you abolished and dismantled it. We stressed then that you should not proceed with this process. It was not a Memorandum of Understanding, because in 2013, when the OGA was attempted to dissolve, the troika then accepted - for you today are institutions - that the OGA should not be dissolved, but it should be an insurance agency, a privileged organisation, as it had already started with family allowances. You dissolved the OGA and today "the mother loses the mother and the child". They no longer know what is going on with pensions. In fact, you dissolved the OGA and, on the other hand, increased the insurance contributions from 10% in total, which were in the seven categories of income, and with the imputable income you went to 27%, i.e. 63% over 1-1-2016 and more than double the 1-1-2017 and the lower insurance contribution of 5000 euros from 753 euros. That's what I'm saying, let's see the numbers. But can you pay pensions? When did the ECA have to pay for the first time an agricultural pension? The born in 1950, who expect 1-7-2017 to take retirement. I have asked and discussed whether you will be able to pay these pensions because it seemed that you have neither plan nor strategy nor can you no longer run this agency. Today, we have September and fourteen thousand five hundred farmers, who had to pay 1-7-2017, have not been paid. You are bound by this Step forward that in August you will pay a thousand pensions, in September three thousand pensions and every month more than three thousand pensions until 31-12-2017, which will pay the fourteen thousand five hundred pensions. How much did you pay today? We have a September month. Ninety-three pensions! And don't bring me any more evidence here. They will be callpants, as were your promises to the Greek people. You will not be able to complete pensions on 31-12-2017. You're likely to pay only those who had insurance contributions, which is 1/3 of the retired only in the OGA. Those who have successive insurance in both other funds and in two years won't be able to pay them at the rate you're going. And that's what you know why? Because even today, when you have the Single Social Security Agency, you cannot contact the insurance funds, IKA, TEBE, OGA single and signed from office to office. You're finally going to see all this, this labyrinth that you created in the country's insurance system? Let me give you another example. Woman’s allowance was cut to retired farmers, whose wife was born in 1952, only sixty - five years later. You were cut off by the pensioner of EUR 330 48, which is 10%. It's your fault. Why? Why didn't you change the computer system, inform the system that the farmer isn't retired to sixty-five, but sixty-seven. This resulted in a wife’s allowance being cut from the retired farmer, while his wife is not yet retired. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] I have tried to draw the attention repeatedly to the services of the OGA to restore this injustice immediately. The OGA correspondents have not yet been informed. Four months now this wife’s allowance is being cut and the OGA correspondents have not been informed what to do. It's very simple. To ask for a photocopy of the identity and send it to the central office - which one? - by the FBI, to restore the wife's allowance to these retired farmers. Do you know what it means to cut 40 euros into the pensioner of 330 euros? What else has to be done at last to see where you have led today, particularly the rural world, with taxation, with the insurance, with this alalum, with the sloppiness that exists today in the Single Social Security Agency? And that was all? I see Mrs Fotiou now and I am thinking of this surplus that she gave last year, at the end of the year, the famous thirteenth pension, which was what she left behind. You gave the rich and you did not give the people you should, because you did not compare the records of pensioners abroad with what pensions were paid abroad, so that all pensioners in Germany or any other European Union country, while they receive a 1,000 or 1,200 euro pension there, appear to receive from the OGA 30 or 100 euros. So they all got from 700 euros and they got them from 200 or 300 euros. This is your design, this is your sensitivity to those who need it. Indeed, perhaps the Greek people were expecting something better. Investment in your own delusion. But you have no other scope, because you are understood. And much more, you have no other room for any political mutation. So, the best thing you've got to do is leave an hour faster.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u146	Mrs. Gennamas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u147	Madam President, will the Minister not listen to the party leader?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u148	What did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u149	It's an honor for a minister to speak party leader to question. And he's gone.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u150	Yeah, I think it's coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u152	Mrs. Gennamas, you have the floor for fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u153	I hope it's enough. You'll understand if you don't. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with a point which has nothing to do with the debate we have today on ecological disaster. The ecological disaster with the sinking of the tanker in Saronicus proves this sensitive area is out of control, it's a clear vine and the government can't do anything. The courage and inability of the government have no limits. Another black spot for the country. Instead of taking responsibility and acting immediately, they faced the problem with propaganda, as usual. They tried to lower it and not solve it. In other words, they tried once again to mock Greek citizens. At the time that Mr. Tsipras disappeared the problems faced by the Greek people from the step of the Thessaloniki International exhibition, the destruction of Saronics began. And Mr. Tsipras took six days to start dealing with this case. In any European country, the Minister responsible would have resigned or renounced. Of course, responsibility is overall for this government, because it has reacted once again with a characteristic delay. But in the SYRIZA Government - IF the concept of political emotiveness simply does not exist. We do not expect the unprecedented Prime Minister to do anything different, to do something better, sooner, more efficiently, on the issue of ecological destruction. We learned him, measured and measured by the citizens. That's why the conviction will be merciless. Ladies and gentlemen, I now come to the question. We, Minister, will not leave you alone in matters of social security. You can be sure of that. The SYRIZA - ANEL government with its policy permanently austerity, with tougher measures, extended the recession and poorened the middle class. He forced entire families to try to survive on a single pension. And now they're killing this pension too. Mr. Tsipras, as indicated by his interview at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition and his speech at the Ministerial Council, smashes all of this. He is not concerned with cut-off pensions, loss of EKT, extermination contributions. He is no longer interested in Greek retired people, who were the ones to whom the thirteenth pension was prioritised. But for us it's a big social problem, and that's why we're leaning on it. Madam Minister, you are negative social security protagonists. You have the negative record on the pension level. Because you have already reduced four hundred thousand main pensions, two hundred five thousand subsidiary and two hundred eighty-five thousand dividends in public pensioners. Because already three hundred thousand low-pensioners lost the CSCE and followed cuts in another hundred thousand. Because already sixty-five thousand young pensioners see their pensions reduced, of course, by 15-30%. Of course, because you have also done extremes, such as the widows who lose 50% of the pension and will only take it for a few years. And that's not enough! You have already voted that from 1-1-2019 they will still be removed from ECU 2.3 billion. by pensioners, by abolishing the personal difference in pensions. You're turning pensions into aids. Under the logic of the infamous Katorugalos law, every concept of competitivity is dispersed in the system and a serious incentive to evade the system. We have said this on several occasions in this Chamber and outside it, but no one has listened to us. Studies by members of the National Accounting Authority reveal that we have the most unfair system in Europe. We don't. The remuneration ratio for pensions, i.e. the contribution- benefit relationship, is continuously falling, reaching 49% for the OAU and 57% for the EFF. You have created a system which is unfair, but also disastrous, because it leads to a dead end and, as we have unfortunately anticipated, it prejudges new negative interventions in social security. You're doing the same with the contributions. You have created extermination situations for professionals, scientists, farmers. The Greeks, not only cannot have decent pensions, but they cannot have any activity because of all these burdensome arrangements. You kill pensions, you kill the job, or you kill the prospect of recovery. That's what you're doing. You are condemning an entire society in poverty and young people in migration today more than the first period of the crisis. Your law works punishably for anyone trying to invest and develop. Your law directly creates his income. In fact, now, with your new memorandum, we will also have cost-saving contributions, i.e. non-existent income, which will lead to a new increase in contributions, especially since 2018. You're creating a dead end with your policy. They are provisions aimed at and leading to the poverty of people who are struggling today to survive. They are provisions that strengthen the vicious cycle of recession and unemployment, since they directly affect the most productive forces in this country. These are provisions which are burdening the new generation of unbearables, which will owe higher contributions to lower pensions. Ladies and gentlemen, the Katrugalu law has already gone bankrupt. It is the symbol of this government's political bankruptcy. It has been a legal abortion, since the first time it has been tabled and bear responsibility for those who have tolerated it, those who have accepted it, those who have voted for it and those who have implemented it. It is time, it is necessary to change, to be replaced by a socially just and sustainable system, which respects, above all, the principle of recompense, a system that will guarantee the rights of the new generation with additional resources. How? From the revenues of the recovery rather than unconditionally divestment through the excess of public property, as well as mineral wealth. We've been through it many times. We have asked for this with a proposal for a law. It is time to strengthen the insurance system, essentially providing incentives for its second pillar, the professional funds, so that there can be positive solutions for the future of pensions in our country. Of course, it is time at last to streamline insurance contributions for scientists, professionals, farmers with disconnection from the declared income and a maximum monthly cap. I urge you again, Minister, to restore here and now the extreme injustice that has been done with the violent cut and the limited time-limit for widows and widows to receive death pensions. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] We have given you the opportunity to do so, we have brought an amendment and once again you have shown analgesia. Why do you continue this injustice? It's up to you. We will insist and come back. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to the very serious issue of the functioning of the EPCA. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, you have created, without any previous study, without any preparation, a mammoth fund that is now turning against its own members, afflicting them with bureaucracy and incredible delays. It is a fund that degrades the level of public health and security of the Greek people. We warned you - I said it before - but you insisted. Why? Because you were weak and unable to negotiate effectively with the troika. Now, a hundred and forty thousand beneficiaries have been waiting for their retirement for many months even for years, without any interest in how these people live, how to deal with their debts and how to meet the needs of their family. We have complete indifference and analgesia of a Fake Left. There is also chaos and suffering in the services, both for the insured and pensioners and for the workers in the ECA. We have mistakes in the calculation of contributions and in thousands of alerts. You're delaying everywhere and aalum. The malosms of Mr Katrugalos and others about simplifying procedures, better organisation, strengthening social security could be heard today as a joke, a joke, if this whole situation was not really tragic. All the services of the new organisation are subordinated. Workers are working in full insecurity, while the rousfetti towards the SYRIZA - ANEL wraths. The Government itself challenged social control and democratic accountability in the Agency when in their board of directors for the first time there is no majority of workers and insured persons. "For eyes" only and after our reactions, you have included from a representative on the board of directors. But problems don't stop here. The two-and-a-half years in the economy, the return to the recession, the extermination of taxation are already breaking down businesses and households and increasing problems, bringing alarming developments to social security. The “black” hole of the appendix is worsened and it becomes threatening. The collectivity of the contributions falls a few months of 2017 below 60%. Debts reach 23 billion euros. And the SYRIZA - ANEL Government chooses as a solution to hunt who? The microprojectors. He chooses to proceed to continuous seizures at their expense. And despite unworthy reassurances, now, they also decided to hunt debt debtors with debts less than 5,000 euros, while the big ones remain unavoidable. Congratulations! That's your stigma. At the same time, the Government does not apply its own Ν.4469 for the proportionate application of the out-of-court settlement mechanism and the free-traders, so that they can be subject to the regulation of the hundreds of twenty-dollar payments for insurance, but also for tax debts. Finally, the Government does not even implement the new investment policy for the development of ECAI property, proposed by the Irish consultancy company for the improvement of its finances, which, at the same time, also warns of the risk of new reductions in pensions. Ladies and gentlemen, to the FBI, the inability of the SYRIZA - ANEL takes threatening features. At least, ladies and gentlemen of the government, since you cannot do anything else, strengthen the ECA as quickly as possible with means and personnel. Publish the organograms and circulars that are really delaying, whether or not this is a marginal improvement. For a solution to the major problems of the insurance system by this government, it is clear that it cannot be given. Problems will be widened with a government that is hostile to investment, commitment of ideas and interests. The SYRIZA - ANELs are trying to achieve the high surpluses for which they committed the country. That's the truth. Do not now listen to what they say about consumption in the Council of Ministers 'for the eyes of the world'. And how are they trying to do that? Through exterior overtaxation. However, it is certain that the programme does not come out without a high rate of growth. Development, however, and investment, ladies and gentlemen, with behaviours such as Halkidiki, Corfu, the Greek is not inconsistent. Development and investment with this tax system and with this system of contributions, which condemns the whole society in poverty, but also in the illegality of tax evasion, will simply never happen. As incompatibility with growth, it is also the maintenance of uncertainty about the country, due to the problems that come with the third assessment, problems created by government delays and rumours themselves. [[At this point the end of the speech bell is ringing by the President of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR]] We have exceeded the contractual limits - I am ending in one minute - the graceful amendments, which are also being prepared for the continuation of surveillance and the memorandum and for new measures in 2018, as the Minister himself leaked a few days ago. The only solution is to change policy by removing through popular vote in the elections to this government. But not with conservative redress, because, as much as it tries, ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA Government forget the events of the five-year period 2004-2009, we do not forget the achievements of the New Democracy in social security, the tenfoldness of the funds' deficits in just six years, the reduction of the funds' property by 25%, the misappropriation of their debts to hospitals. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Mr Mitsotakis yesterday at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition did not make any self-criticism about all of this. On the contrary, it insists conservatively, which means strengthening inequality. And we do not treat social inequalities as about natural phenomenon, and we do not want to live with them as if nothing is going on at all. This is also a crucial, crucial difference between us and the Conservative concepts of the New Democracy. Greece needs progressive policies that promote the country's productive reconstruction and in practice support open and fair society. So it takes a strong centre-left, which can impose national understanding on a national line of exit from the crisis, to finally leave the commission and the memoranda behind, based on the "Greece" project of which we presented the main lines in the Thessaloniki International Exhibition. It needs a strong centre-left, which, with the power of the Greek people, will lead - and be sure - to political developments for the homeland, for society, for Greeks, Greeks and the new generation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u154	Mr Koutsoukos, Member of the Democratic Alliance of the Ilias Prefecture, has the floor. Mr. Kutsuko, would you like your dentistry too?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u155	Depending on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u156	Here, you have the floor for five minutes and we'll see if eight minutes are to take place.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the excellent honour of agreeing to our President, Mrs Gennamas, and therefore, having covered the context of our question, because today we are condemning the government for what it has done - and since we have also presented the framework of our proposals for the social security system, little can be said. Let me put some thoughts as an extension of all this. Ladies and gentlemen, the social security systems have been built in Europe, particularly since the war, by the forces of progress, by the social democratic forces, in cooperation with the labour movement and the trade unions. In our country they came too late, because our country has met civil servants, has experienced divisions, has experienced tough right-wing governments, and in any case it carries the paths of this period. Because we are hearing some very easily criticise, for example, why we have such a low level of pensions, forgetting that by 1982 half of Greece was uninsured. And PASOK came to extend the insurance of everyone throughout Greece. They forget all about it. In any case, because the socio-security system has been linked to cohesion and solidarity societies, we must be aware of how to support systems and improve them every time, in particular in times of crisis, where systems grow, where austerity and unemployment create additional difficulties, in conjunction with demographic trends, so that we can bear in mind how we will support the systems and improve them, so that societies can withstand and not be driven where we spend and where the supposed left-wings usually spend on neoliberal choices and the degradation of the public socio-security system. We tried. We have worked very seriously with L.3863/2010, the so-called Loverdo - Koutromani Act, making a great unification of the insurance funds into three main bodies: workers, employees, free professionals and farmers, with a system of compensation which has been judged too much, because it has reduced the remuneration from 70% to 60%, and with a stage of maturation and transitional provisions. And one would expect from a left-wing government that took the country at a time when it was going to raise head, this system would adapt it to developments and turbulence, which created the period of Varoufakis in the first half of 2015, bringing in front of the ripenings with their imperial application and, if necessary, making some corrections, as I said that the systems are ripe. The Government has attempted, by the method of review, to break this system down. Why? Because it was binding on the perception that "you made forty cuts and we will give increases". And he has made us here from this step forward to presenting us with the great reform of the Left, firstly in the violent unification of the three institutions that we, after a course of reforms, managed to create from forty subsidiary and twelve main insurance. And Mr Katrugalos came here and said "we're going to give increases"! Where have you hidden him, Minister, Mr. Katrugalo? Let's see how he'll now give increases that you've legislated to cut the personal difference! That was a boom, it was a crime, at the expense of the workers. The lie, however, has short feet. And what are the features of the system you built? You have built a system that reduces pensions dramatically. It doesn't cut down, it rolls over. You have built a system that gives you less while paying more. He overthrowed returnability. Numbers have seen the light of publicity too many times. The pension organizations say that "instead of giving the thirteenth pension, you have both cut twelfth and twelfth and tenth." You cut three pensions. That's what the numbers say. And today there are hundreds of forty thousand pensioners, who are waiting for up to three years to get their pension. So he worked forty years, he paid, and now he will be waiting for another three years and you have no sign of shame. There are people who need this one for which they have paid for for forty years. And they've been waiting for three years to get it. Ladies and gentlemen, we have said that this insurance, apart from Mr Katrugalos' approach, has characteristics of a new tax, and that is what free professionals pay with the 2015 statements, please! And it did not trouble you that in the 2016 declarations the incomes of the free traders appear to be reduced and they closed down and seventy-eight thousand businesses, precisely why did you connect insurance to taxation, as a second tax? I think your system beyond injustices is also being brought into collapse. If we did not have the ribbon, which your Government does through the accounts, we would completely collapse the collection, as the 137 million anticipated by the General Accounting Office of the State for every year will not receive any more contributions from growth, but from what I said earlier, through auctions and the long-handed hand of the system in the accounts. Ladies and gentlemen, this abortion of the violent unification of the three Funds in one, has led to this chaos, which our rapporteur has mentioned in detail and to which the President has also made special reference. This abortion cannot be corrected by the hundred and fifty corrections that Mrs Christophilopoulou told you earlier. It must be rebuilt and re-established on a basis of fair return and new resources. But this cannot be done by a government with an authoritative perception, which does not talk to workers, it does not talk to the Committee, it does not talk to society. That takes another logic to deal with. Unfortunately, today's SYRIZA does not. The old SYRIZA of 3%, which told us about the collectiveities and social dialogue, had this perception. Now you don't have it. Ladies and gentlemen, since I am using the time of my dentistry, I will make my last proposal to you. We said how this system can stand on its feet. But we need to see what we do about extreme injustices by then. The widows, if any, are younger than they have to eat, because the late man’s contributions will get them when he arrives at sixty - seven. Until then, what will a woman with no income? Mr. Petropoulou, I see you're moving your head. Can you go to the villages of Krestena, which had under two thousand inhabitants and talk to the cafes you sent them back-up fines? We took them out of TEBE and put them in the OGA. Now your service goes and makes them a fine. Find out what an excuse is. Will you rectify this injustice? We tabled it in the amendment last week. This is Mrs. Ahchioglu. Are you going to tell the heterogeneous - whether they are private or public - who will be retiring tomorrow that the vine must be ‘dropped’ and the licorice to rent it in order not to cut their pension? Will you go talk about it? So pull! We have therefore proposed these extreme injustices, and you must correct them, until the socio-security system is corrected by a government that has a different perception and gives the country a different perspective. Thank you, Madam President, and your tolerance
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u158	Mr. Theocharis, Independent MP in Athens, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u159	As what?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u160	He's signed the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u161	Mr. Theochari, will you take the time of your dentistry as well?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u162	I'm not 100% sure, but I might use my dentistry time. Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, every two years since the 1990s, we shall vote for an insurance policy. When, two years ago, you voted for the Katrugalou law, I pointed out that in a year's time you would be coming back to the House with new insurance intervention. With the closure of the second assessment you have brought new reductions, as with sadness I have anticipated and I have been forced today to point out. The viability of the insurance is a critical parameter. It's a factor that keeps or drives the new generation from her place. Really, what do you think your insurance policy is doing, Minister? He's keeping or kicking out the young people? He's pushing them towards legal or black work? Every citizen who listens to us knows the answer. You told us that you were inciting a fund, EVA, and a way of calculating pensions, with the little craving of the personal difference that you devastated yourself. What's the matter with the FBI? First of all, a month before you started bringing in a new establishment plan here in Parliament and basically kept the old funds with the same addresses within the ECA. So you canceled yourself the first incision you said you were going to. Secondly, EFKA is completely unprepared, as the document I presented in a timely question to Mr Petropoulos on 20 July. Then he told me that this document is not official. I give it back to you for the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It's not official, because the administration didn't accept it. But it was the internal suggestion that did not reflect reality, a cry of agony. 'We are not ready'. That is what EFKA himself said and the reality itself contradicts what Mr Petropoulos and the Ministry said at the time. Three hundred thousand today are the outstanding pensions, hundred and twenty thousand the principal, so many subsidiary, sixty thousand the ones. There is a huge expectation, for example in the majority of subsidiary members it is three and a half years! When I was inviting you to give the dividend you shared last year to those who expect their pensions and live in loan from their relatives, then you were deaf. Why? Because retired people would have gone that money again. Politics, then, there was no problem. But they would not, for example, be taken by the Members who had to return them after the public outcry. But will you tell me, is this government not capable of giving even what it has planned, will it give more? That's right! The update said that a hundred forty thousand main pensions had to be issued by June 2018. I mean, he was already back. I'm saying it's the up-to-date programming. So far, the publications tell us that twenty thousand pensions have been given, while the sixty thousand target seems impossible until the end of the year. Twenty thousand a month, Mr. Petropoulos promised me that same question. The current rate is 12 000 if the publications are right and in a month and a half that has already been lost, in fact half of it. You were tied up to create a hundred staircases and put in a fast position, but we're still running to serve them. Thirdly, you have lost the 860 million of the ESM, allocated exclusively for outstanding pensions. Now you need to put 1 euro on every 2 euros that ESM gives us, and then all the money went straight to the outstanding pensions. The same problems, that is, we see with the current situation by substituting 800 million for public debts: there is a delay and a risk that the money will be lost. Fourthly, you have dismantled the small and medium-sized ones. Acquisition drops 5% every month and will soon not support your account of an EFKA surplus. You've confiscated massive seizures to save the situation. Prepare to retroactively send contributions for 7% and for a single 4%. Who's gonna pay for all this? How do you think you're gonna collect? The result is a reduction in the declared income for freelance professionals and employees of 1 billion, a reduction in tax revenue, which will certainly also go to insurance contributions as you recalculate the contributions in the new declarations, and the strangulation of small and medium-sized enterprises and the self-employed. Proof of the problems is that you have again used 400 million from the AAA to pay pensions. The solidarity of generations has been reversed. How do you react? With poor OAED programs, to turn the blocks into clerical pensions. I have asked you, Minister, and I am waiting for an answer. How do you stop arbitrariness if someone turns employees into blocks at the last minute to get them back with the favorable provisions? How do you make sure that the workers remain employed after the end of the program? Ladies and gentlemen, the insurance is the biggest financial problem and it has remained virtually unresolved throughout the entire crisis. As long as young workers feel they're being stolen from the state because they're having contributions and not the employer telling them to work black, the insurance won't be solved. It is the only criterion we must use and it is so simple that the last citizen of the country understands it. What can we do? Firstly, I would remind you that in my recent proposal for tax and insurance with Mr Christodoulakis and Mr Nektarios, we have presented changes to the insurance we have calculated in proportion to and standing. We can reduce the contributions of up to 8% without budgetaryly increasing the deficits, only by increasing employment and reducing unemployment, which, with the current system, ends up in 14% forever, never falls below 10%, and with our new proposal, it can be brought to 8%, that is, where the crisis was before the crisis. It is therefore typical that the reduction in revenue will be almost entirely offset by the increase in employment with this proposal. Secondly, the government should finally activate the irresponsible account that remains inactive despite its introduction in December 2016. As long as small and medium-sized enterprises are in the "intensive" we will see neither a healthy increase in employment nor an increase in income that will support the ECA and stimulate public finances. Finally, instead of a tsunami foreclosure, a real extrajudicial compromise involving only funds, taxes and banks, and so it will be completed without judicial validation quickly, will be able to save those companies that can be saved, to change our economy away from misery and the debts of small and medium-sized enterprises. We are still waiting for the activation of this extrajudicial compromise that you have introduced. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm closing. Young people want to escape, middle ages are trapped and the elderly are in despair. We don't even see planning, we don't see organization, we don't see efficiency. But the worst part is that we don't see any interest in you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u163	Mr. Carras has the floor now. Mr. Carras, I'm not addressing you independently. Specify yourself as you wish. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u164	I have been identified at the progressive centre, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u165	Anyway, wherever you are, you'll all be together again. You have three minutes and two more for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u166	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, when I saw the text of the topical and urgent question of the Democratic Independence, I understood that it also expresses my views on the insurance problem that has been created in the country. And that's why I signed it, and that's why I'm one of those people who's placed on it today. A year ago and three and four months ago - and I am referring to May 2016 - talking in this Chamber about the so-called reform of the insurance issue, I had said the word 'indigenous'. I had described it this way because the way it comes, it's mortal. It did not recommend reform, in my view, of the insurance sector. It did not recommend incision, nor progress. And why am I saying that? History along the way has justified this view, because we have constant changes and constant delays and, in any case, the whole world is now complaining about this so-called insurance law, whether they are young people taking the street of hostility, because they cannot find a job to secure their future, whether they are elderly or old, who are waiting for a pension and who do not know how long they will expect, the amount of pension they will receive and, in any case, whether what will be reimbursed to them will reflect the contributions they have paid throughout working life or will be a lesser gainful trial in some way. That's how he's trying to show up, as a charisma. However, it is certain that when L.4387 started, he had another feasibility. In my view, it showed the materiality it would have. Because a reform of the insurance issue needs resources. There were no resources here. We are in a recession that is growing. We cannot therefore say that it is a reform and that, at the bottom with a low level of employment that existed and exists, there are no contributions. So, let's say something else now. What did that pursue? It effectively sought to reduce the incomes of pensioners and benefits. Why? Obviously, it was a Memorandum obligation. Obviously, it is part of a wider climate and a system that is followed in the country to give a reduction in the state's insurance expenditure regardless of all the consequences it would have. The cuts are a material measure at all times. And that is what you have never calculated, Mr and Mr Ministers. You didn't calculate it. In fact, months ago, I have asked for something, with a question I have tabled. I have asked the government to answer me if it ever calculated what is deducting from the insurance cost - which is therefore a negative figure - if it has ever measured whether it has ever been able to calculate whether it has, either in total, or in terms of the circulation of money and the return on revenue to the public, if it could have compensated for those losses and created those 2.6 billion, which will be allocated from 2019 onwards as an additional limit on expenditure, because we need to have the so-called primary surplus. I have been asked to answer whether this circulation of money would give the revenue that was required and there would be no need to cut it. Unfortunately, this issue to three ministers has been pending since 30 May and I have not received any response. [[At this point Mr Georgios Dimitrios Karras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] A second issue which was heard in the Chamber as well, and I would like to raise it at the moment, is that I confirm my view that the one-way was cuts, perimeters, regardless of sacrifices, regardless of the consequences for the Greeks, and a clear example is the question of widow’s pensions. I have the readiness, if you want the initiative, and on 27-5-2016 I tabled, immediately the next day of the resolution of the Katorugalou law, a timely question about what will happen with the widow's pensions. I thought it would be a government mistake, that it had escaped her and that it would restore an injustice. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But I also have the answer I received at the time. I have the answer from Mr Petroulos - who is present - who said that 'Let's go to a new definition of the rules for the payment of widow's pension from now on'. And below - it is one of these official Minutes - it says that: "To those who do such an event and really are in a state of weakness, there is a question of social policy. The pro-active policy is in our own concern.' What can I say? I do not want to make any further comment. I don't want to. That is to say, we are transferring those who are entitled to rights to an advantageous policy. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Georgios-Dimitrios Karras, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I want to say the last one to close. This insurance issue cannot be prospered, it cannot succeed for the reason that it does not have any acceptance. When the entire Greek people complain, it cannot function, because this leads to a loss of revenue, because no one gives this system credibility. Colleagues have said before that, in a way, the declared revenues of income tax have been reduced, so that it cannot function. The credibility doesn't exist. And when there is no credibility in a system called reform, one understands that it needs to change immediately. This system in these circumstances, as the current government at least has identified it, is self-sufficient, self-sufficient, and I fear it will get worse in the future. I fear that, at some point, we will even get to a weakness, which I despair - the payment of these minimum benefits, which are still being paid, for the reason that the whole policy has been inextricably lost.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u167	Finish it, Mr. Carras.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u168	I shall conclude immediately, Madam President. And only one attempt. He tried to cover the deficits of the economy, which were the result of bad policies. We cannot, however, cover the deficits of the economy by the impoverishment of the Greek people. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u169	The last speaker has the floor, Mr Kegeroglu. You have the floor, Mr Kegeroglu, for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u170	Just five minutes, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u171	Well, of course, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Madam President. The debate in plenary today is very critical and concerns the serious issue of the sustainability of insurance and pensions. And we can say with certainty that the assessment of the application of a more than one year of the Katrugalo Law, which has not yet been fully implemented, gives such negative results as regards the injustices of pensioners, but above all as regards the enormous injustices of the active economic citizens. The sustainability of the insurance pension scheme concerns all citizens. Some people are trying to say, when we talk about insurance and pensions, and to blame us for dealing only with pensioners and we are not supposedly interested in young people and active citizens. Wrong! This is a misunderstanding, this is an attempt to put the automatic pilot, which through the social contradictions could lead to the cover-up of the crimes that have been committed for the insurance - pension under the SYRIZA - ANEL Cataroo Law. And why all this? How's that law? It cuts pensions and cuts them into a period of excesses. Why don't you once again invoke the cuts that were actually made in previous years in the periods of deficits. You're making cuts with surpluses. That's analgesia. And you are not entitled to talk about cuts in previous years when you have not recalled them. Have you recalled a cut in previous years? None! And you are constantly talking about the cuts that have been made in previous years. Rescind once and then we'll talk about it. But it is not about and you are not only annoyed in this regard. You have imposed high insurance contributions on young people, to active economic citizens who, with a second tax, which is your insurance policy, have put a stop to producing extra income. Your tax in combination with contributions is the ultimate incentive to produce an income of over 12,000 euros, 13,000 euros. Whether you generate an income of 12,000 euros, 13,000 euros or 45,000 euros, what remains is 7,000 euros to 10,000 euros or 11,000 euros. It's exactly the same. But at the same time it's a great incentive to tax evasion. It's a huge stimulus to tax evasion. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And what is happening today - and let you evaluate the evidence of the Ministry of Finance - is not a real reduction in the income of the declared, but is a reduction in why people are trying to find ways not to get their heads off with the insurance contributions. Of course, because there are many who will pay less insurance contributions than they paid before, you have not informed them, Mr Petropoulou - those who say that they meet you and there are indeed those who pay less contributions - that they will not be retired. Have you told them? Have you told them they'll only get an allowance? Have you told them that they will only get the 346 euros and see some 10 or 20 euros in addition? Don't just talk about insurance contributions. Don't just say about everything that works. Ladies and gentlemen, we have more than three hundred thousand pensions pending. Four five months ago, there were three hundred five thousand, now more than three hundred twenty - five thousand. I am putting in and all subsidiary, one-off, even though the performance of the single at a reduced rate has begun. We have agricultural pensions, which Mr Jellonis said should have been issued in July for the 1950-born. You have to tell us specifically why you were unable to give pensions in July and when you would give them to all those born in 1950. There are tens of thousands of pensions not issued for professionals, farmers, craftsmen, traders, due to late insurance contributions that are accumulated. We tabled an amendment last week to increase the limit of 20,000, together with the fines and surcharges for the outstanding debts to the OAU and to go to 35,000, so that some tens of thousands of pensions can be issued with this arrangement, that the ceiling of 4,000 for farmers can be increased to 12 000 so that many pensions can be issued. You did not accept the amendment. We have tabled the amendment which says that, in any case, after you insist, you give the right to be deducted for a period of time corresponding to the due amount of social security contributions, to receive pensions with the rest, the paid years, which are entitled to them - and you are illegally withholding pensions and you are not giving them - and when they are able to pay these contributions, then they will be calculated for the rest of the years as well. You don't accept that either. Not all of this is in the air, Mr Petropoulou, who is involved in insurance, because I believe that Mrs Ahtsoglou is not at all concerned about it. She doesn't care about it because she thinks she's too young to deal with pensions...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u173	Come on, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u174	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u175	What did you say, Mr. Mada?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u176	I said that's different.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u177	Let go of it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u178	You've found a situation to deal with. Bravo!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u179	Mr. Kegeroglu, you've exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u180	What does that show? You didn't have anything to say about everything before, and you really did find the thing to do with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u181	Yeah, you cut 'em off.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u182	Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u183	About the fact that you're a misogynist. That's what we're dealing with!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u184	Mr. Barca, please. You've strayed them, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u185	Sympathy, Mr. Barkas, what did you say? Smurf, Mr. Barkas!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u186	What you've heard!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u187	Come on, Mr. Kegeroglu, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u188	From where and until where do you impose retrospective fines on small professionals, small settlements, as Mr. Koutsoukos told you? Once he's integrated into the FBI - a fund is now - what do you need to say: 'Ah, you should have been in the TEE and not in the TEBE, or should you have been in the OAU and not in another'?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u189	Mr. Kegeroglu, you're done. Don't open a new chapter.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u190	I'm closing, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u191	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u192	So all this actually creates a policy that increases the contradictions, social inequalities, creates a huge problem for young people who pay high social security contributions and for those who are active in economic life, which, together with taxation, cannot be met, and at the same time they do not hope to receive over one allowance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u193	So the questioners ended, having spent all year round. I will now give the floor to the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mrs Ahtsoglou. Mrs. Ahchioglu, how long do you want? Twenty minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u194	Yes, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical question we are debating today and tabled by the Members of the Democratic Alliance, I think, gives us the opportunity to give answers to a number of issues that are raised and which concern the critical area of social security. For all this time, but today, there is a lot of noise which has nothing to do with reality. And in the good scenario, the inaccuracies made are about lack of information, but in the bad scenario it is a deliberate misinformation, which has no purpose but to distort reality. And here I am going to ask a question - a prerequisite for all of us: Who really is helping to create completely distorting impressions on the public social security system? Who's he serving? This government has been committed at the very first moment to set up social security, the public social security system, because we cannot forget that when this government took over, the social security system was on the brink of collapse. The social security system when it received this government had a deficit of 1,186,000,000 euros after eleven successive pension reductions. I think that this is enough to close down with what happened before. We also had eleven successive pension cuts and a deep deficit system, with a deficit of 1,180,000 euros. To those who did not like to hear this, which I think is crucial to continue the debate from now on, I would like to repeat it. We had eleven successive pension cuts in the period 2010 to 2014 and a system with a deficit of 1,180,000 euros. It's really a huge feat! Here comes L.4387/2016 and tries to put the system back on its feet by putting rules and solving problems of years, many of which did have a direct reflection in the first period of operation of the single social security institution. But we have put rules in the system, paid due, closed wounds of the past, and today we are able to say that the public social security system can recover its lost credibility. I think the conditions have been set for this to happen. I will only mention two elements: first, in the unemployment figures, ELSTAT recorded for the second quarter of 2017 an unemployment rate of 21.1%. It is at the levels at the end of 2011. We are recovering, in other words, the lost territory of the crisis in relation to unemployment. Secondly, the limitation of undeclared work and declared work today has been reduced to 13%. In 2016 it had fallen from 19% to 13%. I am referring exclusively to these two sizes, namely unemployment and undeclared work, because they are the key factors for us to have a sustainable insurance system. Here I think a clue also bears witness to the truth of what I am claiming. And that is no more than the single social security institution's revenue. For the execution of the eight-month period, EKKA currently shows a real surplus of 460,000,000 euros, with a budgeted deficit of 510,000,000 euros. In other words, we had a budget deficit of EUR 510,000,000 for the eight-month period and he has achieved a surplus of EUR 460,000. You understand that we are talking about a positive deviation of more than EUR 950,000 000 000, about EUR 1 billion of a positive deviation from the budget. These, to see when the system is set up and when the system collapses. And all that in a few months. That is why we have insisted so much on our contributions to the reduction of unemployment. That is why we are so insisting on undeclared and undeclared work. That is why in the last law we have voted on, we have also tried to solve a few fixed problems of the insurance system that had nothing to do with Law No4387, but were permanent claims by the insured, such as the decoupling of insurance from the status of lawyers and engineers, the resolution by paying invalidity pensions if the crisis of CSR is pending, the acquisition of the natural years for farmers, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, I said that in the first year of operation of the Single Social Security Agency all problems, mistakes and maladministration of the past arise. For over time, the insurance system was characterised by a number of pathogens: customer regulations, infinite ways of calculating contributions and benefits, differences and inequalities between insured persons, fragmented non-consolidated information systems and computer systems, completely incompatible systems with each other, total absence of an organised register for insured persons. And although it was mandatory from 2008 all the registers have been updated on the basis of AMKA, this has never happened. So the funds should have gone ahead with this introduction. That's never happened. They continued to operate on their own numbers. So there was no organised register for the insured. When this government took over there were aggregated sixty - four thousand outstanding applications for primary pension pension and fifty - four outstanding applications for subsidiary. In our drawers, that is, we found three hundred thousand, about sixty thousand, outstanding applications for pension benefits. From mid-2013 and until the beginning of this government, no single one had been paid. And you come here today to tell us about the outstanding pension applications and to swing our finger on the ones. From mid-2013 until that government took over, no single one was paid! We have paid more than fifty thousand singles and by June 2018 everything will be cleared up, that is, all sixty-three thousand singles will be given and they will be guaranteed funding for it. When this government took over, the staff of the social security institutions were reduced by 30%. From 2010 to the moment we took over, the staff of the social security institutions were reduced by 30%, and yet we can make more pensions than they did the previous period. We are therefore making an up-to-date register. We now have a single, corrected register. Indeed, in the first few months of operation of the single social security institution there were huge problems, because when this register was first built, there were twenty-eight million eight hundred thousand insured records in the first few months. Is that the FBI's problem? This problem, that is, was it not before in the registries that joined together and there appeared twenty-eight million eight hundred thousand records? Imagine how many duplicates there were in there and how many uninformed registers, without the key numbers AMKA and AMM, the basic elements needed to create this registry. Today we have a clean, corrected register where 99.9% of the entries are fully correct. We restore justice. We have put in place uniform rules, that is to say the same rules for all those insured with regard to their contributions, as far as their benefits are concerned. And we are laying the foundations for more effective governance of social security with a fund for main insurance and a fund for subsidiary and one-off. We're dealing with tax evasion. Eleven regional audit centres have been set up. We have for the first time - and this is where the President of the Democratic Integration was wrong - an increase in collection in relation to both the past and the targets we had for 2017 and the targets we had committed ourselves to during the negotiation. There is an increase in collection. And for the first time, we are preparing a comprehensive strategy for the exploitation of real estate, real estate, social security institutions to finally make public revenues and make economies of scale using this huge wealth that has been untapped. You will allow me a comment on this matter, because I think it shows the effort we are making to tackle the problem as a whole from all sides. When we started, when this government received, there was not even a single record of the real estate of the social security institutions, while the legislative framework that applied did not allow the institutions to make simple repairs to their estates. We did the recording of all the land in the country in a single system and now we have a full picture. And that's where we found that about 40% of the properties were untreated, deserted, vacant, depriving the system and the public. We have simplified the system, so that it can be used on the best terms possible, and we are currently drawing up a recovery plan. Now - and in cooperation with the architectural school of the Polytechnic - we have called on all the public institutions to settle in the buildings of the social security institutions in Athens and thus achieve an economy of scale for the public sector, to bring in the resources that should be injected into the insurance funds from the use of real estate. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that, months ago, Mr.4387 even came to Parliament, there was a horror of terrorism, which I think is constantly flawed by the reality and the issue of contributions. And on the issue of contributions you were talking about and still talking about the robbery contributions of the self-employed and the farmers. First of all, to clarify a matter in principle. I do not think anyone can argue that the previous system, based on implied incomes of insured, freelance professionals and scientists, was an unfair system because it did not respond to the actual financial capacity of the insured person. That is, of course, a link between the levy paid and the actual income. Totally speaking, I would like to tell you that previously an insured person in the OAU during his first year of insurance gave 240 euros a month, after three years he gave 280 euros a month, regardless of whether there was an increase in his income or not. At the moment, connection to real income has led 80% of free professionals and 90% of farmers to pay less than the previous system. That's not a case, it's not an appreciation, but it's a fact of the kind of warnings sent to professionals themselves. It is also confirmed by the communications from professionals, who I do not think are close to our space and do so for some reason, such as to mock us. It's a fact. With regard to the blocks, I would like to say the following. And here there has been a very great risk in this respect. I will give you two details to see from these arrangements thousands of workers have actually been favoured. The block from the start was a distortion - the cases that behind the block hide the wage-earning job, not every block - of the labour market which has been created since the years of growth. It wasn't a culmination of the crisis, it was a fact that happened in the good times. What was the problem? That behind the block, the employee appeared falsely as a self-employed person and this led to a circumvention of the entire institutional framework for protecting jobs: wages, allowances, working hours, etc. We have decided on this issue to deal with it. We're taking the first step in the insurance. We built the platform to the FBI for the sharing of contributions, so that the false person who appeared as a self-employed contributor, corresponding to an employee, could pay there. To pay one third of the contribution normally and to pay two thirds of its principal employer. At the moment, despite all the effort made by the media in the first time with the attack on the blocks, thirty-six thousand workers have joined the EFKA platform and every day the number is increased. These thirty-six thousand workers are favoured by paying for the 2/3 lower contributions. They're thirty-six thousand workers until the latest evidence. This is really a fact that cannot be called into question. We are moving on to the next step in connection with the programme that has been mentioned in the previous days. It's a payroll program for insurance contributions for those who turn the block into an employee. It is a serious incentive to be able to transform false self-employment into what it really is, that is, wage earner work. I think that both workers and employers will benefit from this. On the question of the security controls of this programme, I would like to say that there will be a clause on the maintenance of the employee after the end of the programme and a clause on prior accession to the programme to have been declared on the platform three months before the start of the programme. Therefore, the two concerns about the abuse of this programme, I think, are covered by these clauses. I am now returning to the issues of social security and the ECA. I mentioned to you again from the beginning about the revenues of the Single Social Security Agency. For the first time, the Unified Social Security Institution pays all its obligations to the EEAS and OAED, it presents in the first eight months of 2017 this very important surplus compared with a budgeted deficit that had now passed and is a past. But you will allow me here, because I have heard all this position with regard to the primary surpluses, to say that we need to discuss rationally. The primary surpluses that you agreed to by 2018 would mean - and if you wish, I can tell you every year which primary surpluses you agreed to - 20 billion additional measures. You agreed on primary surpluses of an average of 4% by 2030. That would mean by 2021 an additional 1 billion a year, because I would remind you that we have agreed on primary surpluses of 3.5% by 2021. And from there, beyond what you remember from the last Eurogroup agreement, the Greek Government has achieved primary surpluses close to 2%, and I would remind you that you have been committed from April 2014 to primary surpluses of about 4% by 2030. I think by short calculations one can calculate how much further billions of measures for each year would be if these agreements were applied. As far as pensions are concerned, and on the question of outstanding applications: As I said, when we were in charge of three hundred and sixty thousand benefits, of which sixty thousand concerned basic pensions. From 1-1-2015 to 30-6-2017 we have paid about three hundred thousand, about, major pensions. Attention, we do not say here that there is no problem with the payment of pensions and that there is no delay in the payment of pensions, which we have to deal with. We have said so many times, and I and Mr Petropoulos, that right and fair are when a pensioner submits the pension application within a minimum period of time to receive his pension. Therefore, any delay beyond that is obviously a problem that we need to resolve and we are working intensively on this. We've already set up working groups at the FBI. We have made the necessary moves of staff to unreliable stores so that they can work more intensively for the extradition of pensions. We have recommended specific steps to clear up the pending applications. We have concentrated productivity control on the basis of specific objectives, and I think that very quickly we will be able to give a definitive solution to this problem of deadlines, but we have received it in very large volumes. I would like to say a word about widow's pensions. No.4387 has changed the conditions under which a widow's pension is to be granted. The reason why Mr. Petropoulos said the problem will not appear until May 2019 is as follows: that even if anyone became the beneficiary of a widow's pension the next day following the vote of No.4387, the law provides that in any case you are receiving this pension for three years regardless of age. From 55, and then you take her forever, but regardless of age, you take her for three years. So, that's where he went that by May 2019, we have time to make the necessary policies. As far as the level of widow's pensions is concerned, we are soon moving into legislation. We will soon bring in a regulation which will deal with this issue, because there is indeed a problem here and it needs to be addressed. It is a sensitive social issue, we understand that. You should understand that the whole piece of insurance is a matter that is permanently negotiable with lenders. So this is what we are negotiating at the moment, so that we can bring in a regulation that will put an end to those cases that result from very low widow's pensions. We are therefore committed that there will soon be legislation on this issue in the near future, the social issue that is crucial. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that I have tried to give as many information and answers as possible to the issues that have been raised. I think I have tried to prove that, with the interventions we are doing and with the initiatives we are taking, we are setting up the public social security system. But you will allow me to say that in my opinion the debate should not take place on accounting terms. I gave numbers and I gave evidence because I had to give evidence. However, I think that the debate on insurance should take place on the basis of the social parameters, which have an impact on its sustainability, in particular on the two aspects: unemployment and employment relations, unemployment and the labour market. These are the social variables that define the public social security system. I think that the best defence of a public and redistributive social security system is to reduce unemployment, tackle undeclared work and to change labour relations substantially in favour of decent work. We know that it is not easy in a few months to reverse a chronic dissolution course. But it is clear - and I think the course of the Single Social Security Agency shows it - that we have returned a page. We have put an end to the degradation of social security and we are setting up with small steps but decisively every day the pillars of a public system - I stress the public social security system, with the same objective that we have in the other areas of social protection. As in health, as in education, as in welfare, we are working with only one objective, to recover the public system its lost credibility, and I think that is what we will achieve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u195	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the circle of parliamentary representatives. We are starting with the Parliamentary Representative of the Democratic Independence PASOK - DIMAR, which is also the questioning party. Mr. Andreas Loveros has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u196	Just six minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u197	The president of your party has also spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u198	That's right. It's like you call it. I shall try, Madam President, to stay in time and hope I do not need your understanding. However, I cannot, as a parliamentary representative, avoid a reference to the Saronic. I'll tell you why. Firstly, for political reasons, because this government and this parliamentary majority are the black spot in Saronic and secondly, because this political imprint is both their political footprint and insurance law and investment and the economy. It's the historical footprint of this party as the governor. I would not, however, make the reference to the Saronic, because I expected that the relevant reference and the reproach of Mrs Gennamas would be activated, in the context of their political responsibility and the present and present ministers, as members of the government, to respond. Mr. Kourublis is uncovered by the Minister, who took the floor so long ago. He didn't find a word to say about it. And it is uncovered because, in fact, the government's political responsibility is so great that it is not covered. We did not say, Madam President, that the present government was not responsible for the shipwreck, nor did we say that, despite all two and a half years - three years in the government, you did not do the right thing in this area. The omissions are many, but they also concern all governments possibly. We said that this was a flawed reaction and a wrong reaction. Both. Firstly, because critical hours have been lost. As it turns out, you share Non Paper to the MPs and they go out and say "it was night and the shipowner didn't notify us". But the minister responsible says that at night the divers cannot attempt. Two explanations of improper and unreasonable smuggling. And no one forgets, especially the mayors of the areas that reach Saronida anymore. Every day we read new news. However, the mayors who have been dealing with an area of Attica which has been fighting for twenty years to clean up and give the citizens are blasphemed by this government, for two whole days it has reassured them. And I put aside the really unreasonable words and phrases of the Minister for Maritime Affairs, which were directed at the bathers. That is the point of criticism. Two days of inertia have led to non-energisation of state and non-state mechanisms to avoid ecological and economic disaster. What has been done twenty years is ruined by inertia, ignorance and clumsiness of certain political members of the government. As long as you don't answer, we'll see you. And the more you have politicians of your parliamentary group lying the more you will be exposed and expose them too. Take the floor and give a cover word to the Minister of Shipping. This is the House. Mrs. Gennamas has caused you, and the glove didn't pick it up. Now let's get to the point. Unfortunately, I do not have time to go into essential detail, technical and non-technical, but our rapporteur, Mrs Christophilopoulou, and all the other rapporteurs who spoke have spoken. However, I want to tell you, and I have told you before, Mrs Ahtsioglu, that you are the last person to give as a political body, but you too are personally. Because you may have downloaded from your personal account in the past, but they have remained. And the people's bills will be paid and paid in total. You have been asked questions here. You came with a series of statistics. You have been asked basic questions, however, which you have avoided and avoided all. I don't have the time to repeat it, but I'm presenting you with three. First question. Is what Mrs Christophilopoulou said, that you who celebrated as a parliamentary group here for the insurance law Katrugalos have made a hundred and seven changes in fourteen months? Is it or isn't it? A table was also submitted. You have an answer. Question No 2, by Mr Ephremidis Have you reduced pensions and all benefits related to pensioners by 18% to two and a half to three years of government? Have you brought about surpluses in time, as Mr Kegeroglu said, the greatest reductions in relation to those which have occurred since our time in the worst post-cultural phase of Greece and in one of the most powerful crises in the history of the modern Greek state? Are you down by 18%, compared to 11% of our period and my own personal? Second answer you owe. Third question. From 2011 to 2015, as the beginning of the year you took over, were seventy thousand single or not granted? Let's see what numbers you're talking about. Because here you can say what you want, but when you tell people who have been through the Ministry that you are and have been tested in this period, you must not say things that you do not know. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, if I can, I have a minute. We have the misfortune in this country and this does not only arise from the Katrugalo - Ahtsoglou stand, it arises from the attitude of the other Skourlet - Army twin at the beginning, which instead of applying an insurance law whose main part was from 1-2015 onwards to keep the insurance against creditors closed, with the only outstandingity of the subsidiary and the very correct regulation of the zero deficit, instead of staying in a dispute of about 300 million, they made temporary policies until they signed the third memorandum, opened the insurance voluntarily and closed it with the Katorugalo Law and what we are living today. Political responsibility and this disaster are yours. And in this way, beyond these specific economic disasters, you are also making another disaster in the level of consciousness. You say to any politician who wants to restrain himself to solve a problem that Greece has no patriots, who, against a problem, unite forces to solve it, but have ambitious executive officials who do everything to stop a course, to start it again, as long as they are ruling. You are causing universal disillusionment to a level of consciousness. And if in some of your management difficulties you seek consent, firstly, you have undermined them and secondly, you have generalised what some older people have said, that in Greece it is not worth sweating, because a next person will come to destroy your effort, to grasp that he resurrects things in relation to the economy, insurance, education and so on. And you personally were evangelizing a revolution, the revolution of the non-existent, but this. I remember, Madam President, an article by Kasimatis-Katrugalou at the 'HIMA OF KYRIAKIS', a few days before the January 2015 elections. It is a text which every time there is an issue here about insurance and about the Minister I will mention, because it was a text full of inaccurate and false promises. You were evangelizing something that didn't exist. And instead of making a self-criticism, asking for consultation, you even attack today, while you are the hardest managers of this ministry. Instead of being pushed into retired, self-employed, freelance professionals, you're ironing them, but you don't understand that you're ironing the middle class. And anyone who irons the middle class pays this, at political level above all, because they are the layers that support a society and guarantee the future of itself and of its children. You are not just "executives" of the insurance. You are the "procurers" of the insurance. And you're going to realize that with a month. Because at the crossroads of your political course you have truly targeted the middle class.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u199	You covered your tritology, Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, too. The reason for the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Mandas, has been speaking for six minutes without any denunciation and others. All parliamentary representatives have six minutes. Here, Mr. Mada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, Madam President. I'm not good at verbal excesses. I'm trying to be good as much as I can on the arguments about the facts. Firstly, we must always be concerned about the public social security system. However, the latest data - recently published in the newspaper "Kathemerini" - show that only 2% are trying to make private insurance. That's what it looks like. It shows that, despite the difficulties of the public, redistributive social security system, this remains a key pillar where the world continues to rest on it. I repeat: in spite of the difficulties, despite the problems, despite the structural and very great changes that have taken place in recent years in the memoranda. Secondly, we must never forget when we discuss this issue in what context all these things have happened. And I think it's really out of the field - not to say nerve - to swing our fingers by some who between 2010 and 2014 made cuts of up to 45% in pensions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u203	Eleven percent. You're 18%.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u204	You say 11 percent. You claim you made 11% cuts in the main pensions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u205	Tell the truth. Get your leads.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u206	You tell the truth. The truth of it. We'll see about this thing here. That thing you're saying has nothing to do with reality. Listen. I shall speak and be judged on what I shall say, as will you. What didn't you want? You did not want, in these difficult circumstances - I repeat - to make an effort, which you said from morning to night, to become'shut and bourbon', never to step backwards. You did not want to lay down uniform rules, rules of justice and equality. Because if Mr.4387 did something, maybe something small, but it will seem how important it is along the way, it was this thing. In other words, we should leave the hundreds of ninety ways and I do not know how many other shades the pensions were given and now go to uniform and clear rules. Are these rules fair? I claim that to a very large extent they are fair and that is why 80% of the liberals and 90% of the farmers pay smaller contributions. All 20,000 reported incomes, the combination of taxes and contributions gives a lower end result than was previously the case. I've heard the suggestion of decoupling - it says - from income. Mrs. Gennimata brought this proposal back. I do not know whether the other proposal that Mr Theocharis said - I have not seen, I have not studied it - gives a solution, but you cannot speak of sustainability and that, in surplus periods, we do what we do in the pension system, when the Minister told you - a deficit of over 1 billion in the social security system. You can't claim that. It's not a argument that runs somewhere. I think we have received the question of what we have received in terms of outstanding pensions for both the main and the subsidiary and what we have done over this period. And add something that I think gives the whole picture. With regard to 'one-time', we are talking about applications made after 1-9-2013, if I am not mistaken, which were blocked due to the failure to operate the arrangement that the former Minister of Labour was trying to make. You said nothing about blocks. And I really do wonder why you didn't say anything. And why didn't you say anything? I have an interpretation of that. I have the interpretation that we have taken a small step in this area, which has become a 'part' throughout the past period. Identify that we have taken a small step in this. There are thirty-six thousand people who have benefited from this regulation today, and this platform will put more thousands in, because we also add incentives to go to that platform. Finally, I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, and to hear from the Greek people, that the claim that two pensions are being cut presupposes that all pensioners will be reduced by 18% in personal differences. Do all pensioners have a personal difference? No, of course not. Those who have a personal difference, will they really suffer reductions? Yes, indeed, they will be reduced to 18%. But are they all at 18% or are they both at 2% and 3% and 5% and 7%? So when we describe a difficult situation, we describe it entirely and with all the elements that show what the reality is. Let me say the other one. Never, but you have never said that over three hundred and fifty thousand low pensioners will have an average increase of 43 euros, for the first time since 2010, over a five-year period. And that's a reality. Do we have a problem with the public social security system? Yeah, we got a problem. We still have a problem as long as we cannot reverse this enormous amount of unemployment that we have received from all these years. We cannot be sure as long as we still have these problems. Are pensions reduced? Of course, pensions have been reduced. Alas, if anyone claims that pensions have not been reduced. Have we taken steps after 2019? Yeah. But, we've taken countermeasures. Will you talk about it once?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u207	Since when will they come into force? From 2021 on!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u208	Mr. Amyras, all right. Keep investing...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u209	Mr. Mada, you have exceeded time and you have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u210	But I don't have a dialogue. I'm done. I don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u211	They'll be in place after 2021.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u212	I'll tell you...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u213	Okay, they don't want the countermeasures.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u214	What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u215	We want them, but not since 2021, and we've seen them!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u216	Okay, if you want them, then we all agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u217	You're making fun of the world. You can't...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u218	No matter how much trouble you make, Mrs. Christophilopoulou...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u219	You have to say something. You can't! Say it to you, and listen to Maximus, and there's nothing going on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u220	Well, is that a point? Excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u221	Mr. Manda, wasn't that a promise to the ICU in Thessaloniki?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u222	Let me finish - if I may - with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u223	In Thessaloniki, the EUR 750 minimum...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u224	Listen, Mr. Amyras, I can do it myself, with interference...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u225	I'm answering the President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u226	When you guys were making a mess, were the interventions good? Now you don't like them?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u227	We like them. I'm fine with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u228	You stood up and didn't let a man speak!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u229	You don't sound like that, Mrs. Christophilopoulou! Mr. Mada, let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u230	I don't sound, but I can't do the weird stuff. By who?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u231	It's okay. Get out.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u232	Of the "I don't pay" who would do it, Cugie in here? What are we talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u233	How long will you continue, Mrs. Christophilopoulou?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u234	As much as you do.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u235	I don't challenge it. I haven't caused anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u236	You're provoking!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u237	I tried - listen! - to keep to the argument. Maybe I didn't make it. You have the ability to contrast, not to shout. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u238	I imitate you, not personally, but your resignation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u239	Mrs. Christophilopoulou, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u240	You want me to have a good time to stop. I shall end by saying this: any investment, in my opinion, is made in disasters and in a way of responding to disasters, and even by Mrs Gennamas and by the parliamentary representative of the Democratic Alliance, I do not think it is in this difficult area of conflict. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection is in place tomorrow morning. That's where everything's coming on the spot.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u241	Neither do you!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u242	I say tomorrow there's this committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u243	Do you have an opinion?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u244	Listen to me, Mr. Loverde. Why are you in such a hurry? All the data have so far been provided with hours and exactly how the Ministry has acted with its means, with the opportunity it had. From there on, all this will be judged. Any institutional gaps and others that may exist - and they exist - will also be judged in all of this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u245	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u246	Mr. Amyras, what do you want? Let me finish a sentence. Have I interrupted you many times?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u247	It's me often. But I expect to hear a comment of yours about the ecological...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u248	We've reached twelve minutes on vacation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u249	Have I interrupted you many times?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u250	A lot, but it's okay. I accept your vacation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u251	Finish it, Mr. Mada.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u252	So I say that all this will be discussed. The opinion has been recorded by the relevant ministries. I would like to say another thing: because, among other things, we have also been told about investment enemies, I would like to say that the candidates - that is, the Democratic Reconciliation - are identified with the demands of EL DORADO and the non-compliance with the contract signed in 2004, I think they set a bad example. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u253	Mr Brutsis, New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u254	Ladies and gentlemen, they say that their governments are following their work and their policies - and that is where they are judged - and their political statements are made. On 23 January 2015, a statement: ‘Group redundancies, the abolition of labour rights, are not the law. Law is made by the people, not by the troika technocrats. So long this has been because we've been sloppy. It's time to raise the head. Let's raise our head. They will be plucked." This statement, January 23, 2015, is the current Minister of Labour, Mr Ahtsoglou. Along with this statement, all the current ministers, the SYRIZA officials, at that time, were talking about a thirteenth pension, talking about a EUR 751 minimum wage, talking about the abolition of flexible forms of employment. That was a grim picture. And it wasn't just that: gatherings, precollapsing, Constitution, protests, everywhere reactions. This is SYRIZA, this is the government that today comes here with courage, with inaccurate elements, which deceived the Greek people and even falsifies the truth today. However, let us see, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister and the Ministers who accompany her and are present here today with her head. With a lifted head today, not with the troika, but with the institutions, not at the Ministry, but at Hilton, with EUR 1,500 a day, paid by the Greek people, Mr Petropoule. With your head up for the first time in the Greek Parliament, the national Parliament is being squeezed away because the provisions are coming, they are being voted and voted out and they are being withdrawn for the first time. With your head up, the pensions we delivered to you, compared to 2014, are reduced from 15% to 40%. With your head up you created the generation of 360 euros, the generation of poor workers with the signature Tsipras - Kammenos, with the signature SYRIZA - ANLE. The generation of poor workers is your creation. With your head up, you took the 410 million, which was in the context of the last discussion with the troika in 2014 on insurance within the email Hardouvelis and you did 10 billion. Intervention in insurance: 10 billion made the 410 million in e-mail Hardouvel for the insurance. With your head up, you took insurance contributions, for which you protested, and Mr. Spirtz built walls outside the engineering fund and closed the engineering fund with chains and today you brought extermination contributions, which will increase from 1-1-2019 further to 61% and will be a ruin for our country's scientific potential and for anyone who dares to gain some small profits in his business. With a lifted head you remove the CSR to low pensioners, who have not felt it completely even in 2019 will be permanently abolished. With your head up, Minister - it will always accompany you and SYRIZA - you are the Minister and it is the party that brought the collective redundancies, with total release, with a simple three-month warning, to the labour law of the country. With your head up in a few days, you'll bring something together that we'll vote on, the trade union law and 50% plus 1. And we'll vote together, because I remind you that especially for what you'll bring in a few days, you've made special protests with all the trade unionists in Syntagma Square. All the others I said before did not vote against and we did not vote for them, ladies and gentlemen, for one reason, because in 2014 we had almost closed the country's insurance system. With the unique proportional study of the law of Andreas Loverdou, Law of 8863, which I inherited, and the electronic interventions and the household, we created the system and you blew it in the air with the six-month period of the "baroufakia" period and the 14.5 billion new measures that you brought from the financial derailment. The price of unreliability and inability is paid today by the pensioners. I would like to dwell on two points mentioned by the Minister for Undeclared Labour. It is a courage, ladies and gentlemen. I tabled a table in the debate the other day. We received 40.2% undeclared work in January 2013 and December 2014 went to 13%. Today, three years later, undeclared work remains at 13%. You have not put a small port in order to defend the unemployed and to defend undeclared and uninsured work in favour of workers. As far as unemployment is concerned, I will tell you that we received it at 27.9%, at the end of the day. With the reforms that have been carried out by me and the Samara Government and by the previous government, these reforms have started to bear fruit and you are not admitting it. In September 2015, unemployment had already fallen to 24.8%. Is unemployment being deviating today? Of course he's deviating. Why does it deviate? For there are the reforms made by previous governments, Mr. SYRIZA's ministers. You are coming today wicked, hypothnic and hypocritical to accuse the reforms and taste the fruits of the reform results. Unfortunately, however, for the unemployed and young people in our country, as you are dealing with the policies that you are developing, this reduction and the declining of unemployment is happening in a wrong and dangerous way. It is done in a way where for the first time parttime is completely dominant. There is the generation of 360 euros, which will always accompany you. There is also a reduction in wages. I don't want to say about Brain Drain that from 11% became 33% from 2015 to 2017. Now I'm going a little bit to the point of unfinished pensions. Very inaccurate things have been said, that you have received three hundred sixty thousand outstanding pensions, and you have already given three hundred thousand pensions. I mean, if I now add all three hundred thousand outstanding pensions, the number is nowhere, but nowhere. The reality, ladies and gentlemen, is that today three hundred thousand pensioners are waiting for their pensions for the first time in the history of the insurance system. The amount of debts is 3 billion. I come to say more specifically why the Greek people should be told the truth: in October 2016 you brought Law 4438. I was here, a parliamentary representative of the New Democracy. It was the fine 859 million. From this step, representing the New Democracy, I said that we support the provision and that Europe's money is welcome to pay off pensions. However, I told you: 'Be careful, because you need to organise the Ministry, move quickly to absorb resources'. What happened, ladies and gentlemen? The government's commitments and on this basis, which are called'ministerial decision', together with your signature, Minister, yours and Mr Tsakalotou, have a binding timetable. The schedule says 31-10-2017. I'm filing it to make your own ministerial decision, bearing your signature. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So this ministerial decision, signed by Mr Juliarakis and Mrs Ahtsoglou, is now null and void. You failed. You didn't get the money, you didn't do what you had to do as the political leadership of the Ministry of Labour. You failed miserably, the money was lost, and we went into another process. Now the payment of the outstanding pensions goes as follows: a euro for the Greek public and a euro for the due time from Europe. Indeed, who is to blame for losing these European funds? Aren't you incapacitated? The problem, ladies and gentlemen, is not organisational, it is purely political. There are circulars coming out from the insurance SYRIZA - Katrugalou, an insurance in which to date - because I have heard you disagree with the figures that have been said just before the Democratic Association - I must tell you that within nineteen months you have made seventeen different legislative changes to insurance. Seventeen! They won't end here. It's an undeniable need as much as ever...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u255	Mr. Brutsi...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u256	I shall now conclude and thank you for your tolerance, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u257	You're opening chapters like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u258	Like Mr. Maddash spoke twelve minutes, so did I.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u259	Not 12 minutes. It was on vacation, you two talk incessantly.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u260	I'm hanging up. I will simply say to you that it is an undeniable need to change this insurance, whose sustainability does not seem to stand and the injustices fill it up. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] The Katrugalo insurance has brought about the greatest reductions, not necessary and inappropriate, and it is a matter that concerns us and should concern us. It is a deadlock for workers and pensioners, a deadlock for which only the SYRIZA Government is responsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u261	Thank you, Mr. Brutsi. Mr Panayotus, you have the floor for six minutes, with the tolerance of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u262	Thank you, Mr President. From the Saronic shipwreck to the insurance company. You're a government - a shipwreck literally! For the Saronic shipwreck, which I imagine in the next few days in plenary, we will be concerned about everything that has been heard, of course, with the statements by the Ministers responsible for insurance, because if people go to take a bath, they will, in a massive way, get into the state - and not just - hospitals and will be burdening the already assured insurance funds. For the shipwreck of pensions, insurance, of course, to be honest, you are not solely responsible, but you are worthy of followers of the former. This is where we come to the PASOK question. We believe it is a joke of the PASOK, which has been running with the New Democracy for decades and has led this place to the present triumphant condition, to come and move the finger. You've blown up the banana in the air for many years now, one with the stock exchange, where the insurance funds have lost too much money. Who does not then remember Giannos Papantoniou, who was massively urging Greeks - and of course also the managers of the insurance funds - to play on the stock market? Should we go to the toxic bonds, where the different unrelated head of the insurance funds gambled and in the end lost everything unpunished? Should we go to the à la carte PSI, to the haircut, where those who have suffered a real break cut were the insurance funds, as opposed to a number of individuals who have not accepted the haircut, and in the end have their bonds been collected in full? Should we go to the memorials, which led to a general collapse of the economic - and not just - of the place, with all that means both pensions and wages and insurance contributions? There could be a small parentheses here. The only Memorandum that the Greek people might perhaps have discussed, would perhaps be an insurance memorandum, to borrow this country money in relation to an organised recovery plan for the insurance funds so that it has to pay pensions for the coming years. Above all, it is the demographic crime that is taking place in our country, which in a few years' time we will be looking to find Greeks who will be working to pay for insurance contributions that are the alpha and the omega and, of course, the third memorandum, gentlemen of PASOK and of the New Democracy, which you have voted on, and you have agreed on the substance of all the measures brought by the coexistence of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks to continue your destructive work. Here we come to the SYRIZA - ANEL co-government, who continue the very catastrophic policy of the former. You haven't changed anything at all. The course is constantly declining in all areas. Why would the insurance be left outside? It is also inconsistent, of course, with many of your members, especially in the private sector, because the private sector, quite well or badly, is the one who pays all the wastes and everything. It is also the demographic disaster, which is taking place and is being magnified and increased by geometric progress, especially in recent years, together with all the other bills that you are voting for with the enormous, your very great love for the illegal immigrants you bring them here, you are organizing them and, in a few years' time, you will be looking for them - because only they may be able to do so with all the help you have given them - and you will ask them to pay for the broken-up funds. It is also unemployment, which has exceeded every previous one. Of course a small reduction is totally fictitious, because we all know that the scheme is changing with too many part-time workers compared with those who were full-time beforehand. It is the massive fleeing of companies abroad, who paid private contributions, who would pay their contributions if they were working here. They are close to half a million Greeks who pay insurance contributions or pay them insurance contributions at all lengths and backs of the earth, except for Greece, because they no longer work here. Do you really expect, Minister, that you were also president of an insurance fund, with 26% ECA being able to cope with a free professional? Three things will happen: Either you don't pay insurance contributions or you hide insurance contributions or you close and go somewhere else, of course contrary to the free treatment of all illegal immigrants in our home country. Here, too, to make a little comment. I should like to respond to the SYRIZA parliamentary representative, who said something about private security, that it is - he says - very little about the percentage of those insured in the private sector. If they had the choice to choose between the public and the private sector, in the vast majority of Greeks, at least in the care part, they would pay private security, which is much cheaper, with much more rewarding than public insurance and care, which you have made in the realm of "the kick and the cop". Of course, your best examples show and your executives, who usually go to private hospitals or to the hospital of the Air Force, but in a public hospital we have not seen any of your anticipated officials go, even for a visit. Free professionals are the ones who pay for everyone, for the broken ones of everyone. We said it, we say it, and we'll say it. We hear you say that more free professionals or individuals pay less insurance contributions. This is about their incomes and because the incomes of all Greeks are constantly falling and your dreams are all Greeks becoming poor and living in piles or I don't know what else, yes, some pay less. But that's not the point. Whatever you do, whatever you try, the course is not reversed, because you are moving in a completely wrong direction. The most serious problem of all is demographic, for which you should take huge and immediate measures, but you do nothing at all, very simply because above all you hate native Greeks and want to trade them with various imported, smugglers or not. In addition, it is not possible in an insurance fund, when the ratios are two, two and a half in active insurance, to pay for one or a half pensioners as well. In particular, in the former TEBE, currently a member of the ECA, the proportions were dramatic. Two inactive people had to pay - they too, when they paid their contributions - and maintain them as well as the pensioners. As long as the Greeks leave abroad, as long as the Greeks don't have children, the vicious cycle of the destruction of the insurance funds will unfortunately continue and grow if you don't take measures. After a while, when you have failed your current measures, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you will again be invited to make new acts, new calculations, so that you can take a walk. Of course, your general policies will not change anything. All this requires a national policy at all levels in order to stimulate both the economy and demographics, and all that helps and contributes indirectly or directly to the improvement and improvement of the insurance funds. As the People's Association - Golden Dawn, we have said it, we have said it, and we will keep saying it and as long as the time goes, unfortunately, we are increasingly confirmed: This country has no future, if there are no Greeks and Greeks. Because with the borrowers you're going to bring us, we're not going to do anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u263	Thank you, Mr. Panayotar. Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis has the floor for six minutes with relative tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u264	Thank you, Mr President. Allow me, on the occasion of the fierce and male murder of Paul Kryssa four years ago, the brutal murderous attacks against PAME workers in Perama, against immigrant workers, to denounce the long delay in the trial resulting in the free movement of the killers and the leadership of the criminal organisation to continue to drip the racist and Nazi poison on Greek society. It seems to us that no one referred to this anniversary. We call for justice to yield justice without further delay. That's a requirement. As far as the pollution of Saronics is concerned, there is, of course, the government's responsibility because it serves the needs of shipowners for increasing profitability, allowing them to circulate soaps with an incomplete composition of workers and a lack of any control. This is the choice of shipowners, which all governments have served over time, so they do not talk about shipowners' crimes. I see that in all the discussions their responsibilities are out. As far as today's question is concerned, the JRC's position is that care for health, welfare, pensions is the right of the people, a key component of development and social progress. Social security is not an individual case of each individual member of society. It is an overall responsibility for society and the state. The possibility of providing high-level services, which meet the modern requirements, can only become a reality when social security is a matter of the State on the basis of meeting the increasing needs of the people. It meets crucial needs for the reproduction of the workers' spiritual and physical abilities and is an integral part of the other, the pro-cultural development path of the Greek society, based on the well-being of the people. Prevention, health protection and care are a matter of an exclusively public, free health system, with the abolition of the health sector of the state-funded insurance funds and will provide equal, without discrimination, high-level services to all employees, self-employed, farmers, foreign workers, soldiers, protected members of the people's family. Prevention, protection and rehabilitation of health, care for mother and child, people with disabilities, the elderly, the chronic suffering cannot be a field of capital exploitation and profitability. It is necessary to abolish private and state-owned business. But all the governments, liberal, socially-democratic, supposedly left-wing, manage the needs of capital and combined measures, went ahead with the hit on full stable work and day-to-day work, the abolition of collective agreements, the abolition of pension rights, the merchandise of health and welfare, education, the liberalisation of areas of strategic importance, privatizations. The right to pension, prevent and protect health, to care for people with disabilities is treated as a cost borne by the urban state and entrepreneurs, increases budget deficits and public debt, prevents the growth that has been the criterion of profit and capitalist growth. Thus, employers and the state are exempted from obligations and workers are subject to new burdens from all the reforms that have taken place so far. The pension, health, welfare are used as an investment area and capital profitability through the expansion of private business. It is characteristic that all the fund managers went through the fora of private insurance companies and promised investment and profits in this area. The argument that we have seen here today between the government, the CSCE and the PASOK does not hide that what they are fighting for is who is more appropriate to implement the anti-grassroots measures and the restructuring needed for the recovery of capital, which all three support. The current government has maintained in full the anti-popular grid shaped by the previous, enriching it with new measures, measures which the New Democracy has supported and will maintain if it is found in the government perpetrated and enriched further, since they are the only ones needed to achieve their common objectives. Law No.4387/2016 - or the Katorugalou law, as we say - of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL came to specialize in Law.4336/2015, the third memorandum, with the differentiation that, instead of a social security fund, there were two remaining, EFKA and the EIB. The MPs who voted for the third memorandum, this law, Law No.4336/2015, which plunges pensions, which increases age limits, now put questions to the House by criticizing, essentially by pressing for the rapid implementation of capital choices. SYRIZA, the ANELs, with the New Democracy, the PASOK - DIMAR, the Potami and the other Euromono street parties have voted for the massacre and now pretend that they did not know and did not know what they voted for. What do we have with this law, the third memorandum? We have huge increases in age limits, especially for women and men. The concept of a pension right in the public and private sectors has been abolished. There was a decrease in social expenditure by 0. 25% of GDP for 2015 and 1% for 2016. This law began to reduce the CSCE and goes on to abolish it. Specific timetables require the linking of contributions and benefits. Gentlemen, they're here! I brought you the Minutes from the third memorandum, probably from the government's newspaper. So you agreed here to abolish the CSCE together - they are here! - and the PASOK and the New Democracy and the River. It's written in the third memorandum. You didn't know? You didn't know? Did you miss it? But you voted for it! Here it is! I'm tabling this in the Minutes to see if you don't have the government's Official Journal, so you know what you voted for. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Katsotis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So you voted for everything. Mr Brutsis is talking today about the issue of collective redundancies and collective action and collective bargaining. You also voted together in the third memorandum. It is the other chapter:'structural policies to enhance competitiveness and growth'. Together you have voted for what SYRIZA has done here, the collective redundancies and the trade union law that will bring about the abolition of the strike and all that. With regard to undeclared work, the one you voted on the day before yesterday is a Memorandum of Understanding. So here is the other arrangement in the third memorandum. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Katsotis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Of course, many others included in the first and second Memorandum. Did we not abolish the third and fourteenth pensions in the first Memorandum? Wasn't the abolition of the thirteenth and fourteenth wages? These were in the first Memorandum. Did we also not have a series of changes in the second memorandum, the eleven reductions - as they say - in pensions, which the SYRIZA Government continued and goes further? We also have this from the first and second memorandums. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Katsotis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We, as JRC, support the administrative framework of pensioners, workers, self-employed, farmers, scientists for the rehabilitation of main and supplementary pensions at the level of 2009, the reintroduction of the thirteenth and fourteenth main and supplementary pensions, the abolition of all reinsurance laws and all three Memorandums reducing pensions and benefits, the immediate restoration of losses from reductions in allowances and pensions in special groups, such as disability and widowhood. It is unacceptable for a paraplegic person to get 25% of his father's pension if he dies. How will this paraplegic person survive with 25% of his father's pension if he dies? In addition, widow's pension, which is 50%. These rules are unacceptable and, of course, this law is not corrected, rather than abolished. We are also calling for the necessary reduction in the lower pension, which, from the EUR 486 that was in the EUR 392, has now been EUR 345 for 15 years plus EUR 69 which has been paid for 15 years, i.e. the minimum pension from EUR 486. This is the creation of SYRIZA, the Katorugalo Law.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u265	Mr Katsotis, you've reached nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u266	I shall conclude, Mr President. There are also demands from the trade union movement that we support and strive to become an estate and a decisive fighter for the whole of the people. The JRC has an unnegotiable position: Workers produce wealth and must claim it. The increase in wealth and the development of science and technology have created the basis for satisfying people's needs. The problem lies in the power of capital and in the exploitation of production relations, and this problem must be solved by the struggle of the working class, its alliance with the small and medium-sized farms and the self-employed in the city. This is the only philosophical way, and we invite them in association with the JRC and the definitive overthrow of barbarity, uncertainty, for permanent rights and for satisfying the ever-increasing needs of our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u267	Thank you, Mr. Katsotis. The Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks Mr Papachristopoulos is followed for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u268	Thank you, Mr President. I have tried for a long time to understand the feasibility of this question from the Democratic Integration Party, which two independent MPs have even signed. A reasonable explanation for me isn't there, because it's a question that should have been made a long time ago. Before I enter the essence of the question, however, I would like to remind you of a few things. It is now certain that in the Eurogroup everyone agrees that the country's exit from the memoranda will be clear, without a new programme. Some people are already beginning to say 'no, that's not exactly what's going to happen' and that's what it is. I could invoke all the names, what McCron says, what Jetiloni says, what Moscovisi says, what Shoeble himself says. I would like here to remind you of an article recently written by Thomas Fricke in a magazine, which is only left-handed, the 'SPIEGEL', in which he is entitled to the full policy of this government over the two years. It hits Symble and says that "it would be a good thing for the Greeks to vote, because you yourself decided, without any democratic process, to throw them out of the Eurozone." If not all SPD intervened then, Gabriel says that as well as Schultz, and if Merkel didn't agree, Shoeble would have done so with great comfort. I repeat that this is not what a Greek government says, says Thomas Fritz at 'SPIEGEL'. It also says: 'The 100 billion won by us Germans is the ones creating austerity and risk in all the countries of the South that came and were submitted to our own German banks'. It is an article by Thomas Fritz at the 'SPIEGEL'. Read it! But I want to get away a little, because I believe that the substance is not the timely question. Because they have elections to the Democratic Partnership, they have their own, I wish them "good success", but I think that's a story somewhere in the air. I want to remind you here that I saw great tones, they again talked about courage, they said to apologize, there was tension and it goes on to say. Let's get this straight. No matter how tired the repetition is, it's the mother of learning. Forty years this country has been looted. He was robbed in a brutal way. All Greeks lost one quarter of their property. When we took the government, one quarter of the property of 11 million Greeks was lost. Why? Because it was simply a 120% GDP that reached 180%. The "skills" of the markets, who are now talking, doing and making, surrendering - listen! - an unemployment at 27%. This is an unprecedented number. You must be a jam, an amateur, impotent, to hand over such a high unemployment. It is an unprecedented figure for the countries of the European Union, with what this implies for the funds, for what the Minister is inaugurating - and I have heard both here and today - and most important of all: 325 billion. I hear a number of figures that 'you have charged the country EUR 100 billion'. Debt is specific. Look into it and find it in accounting. The definition of a bankrupt country. That's what you delivered. You're fully responsible. I'll say it again: I didn't hear a word of self-criticism. High tons, hand lift, yes. First of all, you two parties themselves - I am telling you directly - owes one another ECU 210 million and the other owes the other ECU 190 million. According to an analysis, if all the state grant of the New Democracy from now on goes to what it owes, it will take 420 years to pay off it. So - if you'll excuse me for the popular expression - I'm becoming a dude. As for the PASOK, which takes much smaller, because it does not have the power, it takes about 820 years, that is, the new millennium! More prudence, boys! I really hope that the work of your conference will be good. Somebody talk about these debts. The Greek citizen pays if you don't understand it, so you can come here and talk about courage,'resign', 'go'. Let's go, guys. But we won't leave you. If the Greek citizen decides, we'll leave. But here, I have another unpleasant surprise: you were accustomed - especially the New Democracy, the PASOK is still somewhere in 6%, 6.5%, may be more than that, let me not be unfair - to be in front of many units coming new polls. I am not referring to the latter, I am referring to the previous ones, to the 'ALCO', the 'KAPPA RESEARCH'. Where are the twenty units, the eighteen units, the seventeen that laughed every bitter. SKAY dated them every day with PAMAK. He laughed at every bitter man! In the latest 'KAPPA RESEARCH' survey, which is not our friends, the difference is 6.1%, of 'Alco' 7.5%. The last one, however, who cannot ignore it, is "COMMON VIEW": The New Democracy is 27% and 24% SYRIZA. To the limits of the statistical error. Have you wondered why? Because your danger has become second nature. From morning to night, destruction, one, the other! Easy! Three rating houses - 'MODY'S', 'KAPPA RESEARCH', 'FITCH' - upgraded the country. They saw the country came into the markets successfully. They saw that the second evaluation ended successfully. They saw something in this government. They saw unemployment from 27% goes to 21%. They saw them. And the markets are tough. No one loved us. Nobody's doing us a favor. They're just imaging reality. Today we're talking, it's no exaggeration to say there's an investment orgasm. If you think it's too much, let's put it down. The ones that have been approved. I don't care what's going to be adopted. Can I talk to you with numbers? What has Haritsis, Pittsorlas and Papadimitriou done, ask you to find out. I have it here in front of me, but I'll have a lot of time to tell you. Currently 30 billion are entering by 2020. Do you ignore them? Do it. Dangerology again? Let me say something. I'll agree on a lot of things. Do you want us to criticise the Minister for Commercial Shipping? Let's get out of here. Is it weird, yes or no, without a triple, no collision, no fire from a ship sinking? I think we all agree it's weird. Let's see it, not hot decision. We're all dissatisfied. No one's happy about that. You want me to tell you there might be omissions? Yeah, and they're gonna pay off. A government's got a hard time. He's not always positive, and that's where he's tested. Struggle players have learned to survive on the hard side. It was a difficult time, but every day it passes, it is reduced. I have a problem with my leg, I cut the quadruple, and I have to do physical therapy and bathrooms. I went to Voula. I'll let you know I didn't find a spot. I'm telling you straight away. I personally was in Voula and took a bath. I did it for my leg, I have no insanity to take a bath right now. Let's see it. There was the Squirrel thing. Have you realised everyone's been exposed right now? 0.8 arsenic cannot be made 8. That's why they were kicked out of Romania, so they left Africa, so they were kicked out of Brazil. It's a company that I say well exists. But it must respect the rules of the game. Why are you sticking in things you shouldn't? We're wrong. Only dictators make no mistakes. We need the Civic Opposition, but not this evil, this continuing hysterical reaction. Remember, he'll be back for you. We see this in the new polls. On the subject of the bill, you have voted against a great deal, but you have had to. I'll tell you this. 99% of the institutions accepted it positively, so I cannot understand where the question of the Democratic Partnership is. But the gatherings say they have elections. Come on, let me take it! A revolutionary bill for the first time is near the worker. Didn't you hear anything about unpaid work, about undeclared work? Didn't you hear that a worker never went to court, why did he first have to pay and secondly should he go for ten years? Didn't you ever hear of that? Didn't you know the four months that Mr. Mitsotakis invoked? And so is it. I heard him carefully. Didn't you hear that stuff? What did you do to fix them? The bill corrects them almost all. Not everything, because there's more to it, which we really want your help. I heard Mr. Theochari with respect. I liked it because he made five, six sentences. I heard them, and I believe the Minister has heard them. Let's do it. Will this furious thing continue, with the courage to "resign"? No, you guys! The word'misa' in the Armed Forces gave and took for twenty years. Now it stopped, when Kammen sent nineteen cases to the D.A. Come one day and watch what I find in the health field. Do we have nerve? We're ashamed of each other? No, sir. We've made mistakes and we'll do it. One thing we have no right to do, and I personally commit that we do not. With the hand on honey, the country went bankrupt. A piece of civilian personnel didn't do another job. It's not just Akis, it's not just Papantonius or Mandelis. There's too many of them. Slowly, everything's coming up. We're not dictators. We can't take the opponent to lock him in jail. We want legal coverage if the presumption of their innocence really justifies them, then, yes, to go out and continue their political career. I'm telling you again. People listen to us and they don't believe you. The civilian staff must stop putting their hand in the honey. I don't want anything but Tsipras and Kammenos, that's all. I think I've seen it so far. One last. I always have it with me, so to remind you. They graz 900 billion - because you only worked for a hundred and two hundred families - to banks all over the planet. He's got you in detail where he is. The article is written two months after the 2015 elections.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u269	Mr. Comrade, you've reached thirteen minutes. Please very much, if you please, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u270	I shall conclude, Mr President. It also criticizes us because some: 800 billion in offshore, in Panama Papers, in economic heavens. 'DIE WELT'. Remember when you say the word 'dream', when you say 'not ashamed', when you say 'go'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u271	You have the floor, Mr. Amyras, for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u272	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr. Papachristopoulos, I would tell you, in relation to the sea and Voula and the bathroom you have done, this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u273	If you don't believe me, George, I have ten pages. Let me show you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u274	I believe you went for a bath, Mr. Papachristopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u275	I didn't say it wasn't a problem. I said that responsibility should also be attributed. I said it all. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u276	I wanted to say something, dear Mr. Papachristopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u277	Don't twist what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u278	Am I supposed to twist? No way.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u279	I think you're a friend and a good-for-nothing. Heavy criticism, do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u280	Sure. Because I'm well-off, I'd tell you this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u281	I didn't say it wasn't a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u282	Don't start dialogue now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u283	I'm sorry, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u284	Mr. Papachristopoulos, there is a mutual sympathy. There is also the ability to discuss the difficult issues with Mr Papachristopoulos. I was just going to tell you to look at Mr. Dimitris Koureta, who is the President of the Hellenic Society for Toxicology. Take an AD1 report two days ago that said it would take two whole years to get the water back in their natural harmony and condition. Why? Because it's not just the fuel oil we see upstairs. 20% of the fuel oil sits on the bottom and affects the food chain of all organisms living in these seafood ecosystems. So I'd say, since the conversation about Salamis, that's what I was going to say. I'd say yes, Mr. Loverdos, they didn't lift the glove after your invitations to tell us two words about the destruction of Saronic. But why would they raise the glove? Because if you raise the glove from your sleeves, ladies and gentlemen, it will drip fuel, it will drip irresponsibility and it will drip incompetence. Because it is not possible for the government to monitor the phenomenon now and not take all these drastic measures to limit it. Can I just say about those unacceptable excuses for the first 24 hours? It was night -- it says -- it was night and we're unlucky. In other words, the Greek state only operates from eight in the morning to two in the afternoon. Where's your economist Minister? SYRIZA and the ANELs remind you that it runs counter to the vote of the two members of the Green Party of MEPs. We have heard that unexplained statement from Mr Tsironi, your Minister from the Economists: 'The evil society is the fault of oil'. But are you serious? Is that how you have the ecology inside you? So you will preserve the environment. Mr. Mandais said this too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u285	Mr. Amyras, I'm sorry to interrupt, but you're completely out of the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u286	Please, Mr. President. This is a political top priority.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u287	You've consumed half your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u288	Mr President, this is not half my time. All the previous speakers have raised this hot issue. Everyone took ten to twelve minutes, and I'm interrupted in two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u289	They talked about the matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u290	That's the point. It is the irresponsibility of the government and its inability to face a huge ecological problem, but it is also the silence of its economists, its economists and all those who have a flag of opportunity for the environment. I now come to the question of unemployment, Mrs Ahchioglu. In the previous debate we had on the same subject about ten days ago, I told you that we should of course always be satisfied when, even half of the fraction, unemployment falls. But let's see it all, Mrs. Ahchioglu. In addition, the Commission notes that, in view of the above, it is not necessary to assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market and whether it is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty, it is Of course, I do. But let's say the rest of the evidence. In every job created by 2015 and paid EUR 900, in the last two years we have two jobs of EUR 360 and EUR 400. Reopen, I tell you, page 78 of the Bank of Greece's Annual Monetary Report published just two and a half months ago in June, and there you will see the whole reality. It says: "The pay in 2015 compared to 2014 decreased" on SYRIZA - ANEL, that is, and the Economists - do not forget them - "by 2.9%". The increase in wages you invoked for 0.8% in 2016 does not outweigh this huge difference. It is a fundamental question of dealing with unemployment and dealing with insurance. But what did you do? You have created, you are the generators of the 360 euro generation, when you have had a career policy to stone the generation of 700 euros. Let's go down. And if you want any more evidence, I'll give it to you. Independent Public Revenue Authority: "The revenues in 2016 are reduced by 25% for freelance professionals and by 1.5% for employees". Isn't that enough for you? Take IKA's statistical employment card, the last one, which says that the average monthly salary in October 2016 is EUR 936, when 2014 was EUR 1.156, a decrease of 18.9%, on your days. Is that why you're going to tell us anything? Do you have any consolation conversations with all those who saw their incomes and their lives on your days shaking and going even further down? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] In my speech to Mr Manda - out of a microphone, my speech - the President-in-Office said, "But did you not hear, when we were talking about pensions, reductions, the commitment of Mr Tsipras, the Prime Minister, at the IGC?". Clearly, I would like to ask you: for what exactly a commitment? For the thirteenth pension you would pay or the minimum wage you would take him to 751 euros? Did you talk about this, or about doubled the time of the unemployment benefit? Is that why you have anything to say? But I know what you're saying. You cleanse yourself with two words: 'We have made a tough and proud negotiation and we have finally led to results that we do not like, but...'. And it begins after the fairy tale, the blah-blah for the social transformation of Europe and other such aeronautical ones. Ladies and gentlemen, I will tell you again about pension reductions. Here, as if I were in another parliament, another country, another century, another continent, because you blamed the previous ones - yes, New Democracy and PASOK - for making thirteen pension cuts. How many have you done, Mr. Mada? And since you were accusing the previous, who made pension cuts, why do you say 'the previous pension reductions did not reach us, we incorporate them, we accept them and we move forward'? In fourteen months from now, on 1 January 2019, 95% of pensions, gentlemen and subsidiary, will be reduced to 18%.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u291	Mr. Amyra...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u292	Now, now I'll answer you, Mrs. Fotou. And if we also put the scrubbing of family allowances, the fall is up to 25%. So let's see, the main fire you're reacting to, how you're doing out of simple arithmetic.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u293	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u294	The memorandum, which you voted in May, with your vote and yours, Mrs Fotio, provides for a reduction in the State's contribution to the insurance funds by EUR 1.8 billion. Just say it, every year the state gave 10 billion euros for pensions. Your memorandum tells you to reduce this expenditure by EUR 1.8 billion, i.e. by 1% of GDP. So tell me, do you: How will it not be reduced? Magic? After you voted for them. Elementary, Dr Watson! Of the 10 billion, if we make EUR 1.8 billion, what remains, to share pensions, is reduced by up to 18%. Let's go further - and I will finish, Madam President - in the report, in the PPC, whoever went to PPC, he would notice that the EFCA was sharing a brochure with truths and lies about contributions and pensions. Let's see what this EKKA form said: “On June 30, 2017, there were three hundred and eighty thousand seven hundred forty-five pensions and one single pensions that their beneficiaries have not received during the last two or three years”. In May four to five months ago, when the matter was reopened, you said that in October 2017, in ten to fifteen days, the loose end will be settled. October is in ten days. Tell us what you're going to do with this mountain of loose ends? Are you going to give them the pensions? Yes or no? Just stuff. Because people can't live with 200 euros. Where's your social sensitivity? And we're going down. What does EFKA tell us now? That payments will be made by June 2018 for the main pensions. No schedule for ancillary services. I'd like to hear. Every day you advertise the primary surpluses and of course what you hide and you do not say is that pensions and one-off pensions are a part of the ability of the primary surpluses for which you are proud. It's clear that the bomb of unpaid pensions will blow sometime. I don't know if he'll break into your hands or the next government, whatever it is. But the FBI brochure hides more truths. I'll tell you another one that doesn't hide. What I mentioned evidently: What is awaiting retired people from January 1, 2019? Reduction of pensions up to 18%. Why don't you say it? Why don't you say it? Also, why don't you tell us something about the NSA? Not even a consolation conversation there? You cut it to a hundred and fifty thousand low pensioners, and this scissors will continue, because this budget is limited to half. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by saying that, as you did in Saronicos, you did it "mushroom" but, unfortunately, at the expense of the entire Greek society, I am very afraid that this is how you drive and with what you are swallowing. If they're pensions, that's too bad for pensions. If it's about the environment, it's too bad for the environment, but if it's about the simple common sense, it's too bad for you, because people can't eat chicken anymore. That's enough hay you fed him. The very wild one at some point brings the revolution as self-evident. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u295	Thank you, Mr. Amyras. The floor has been asked by the Deputy Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr. Petropoulos, for ten minutes and then he will answer, from what I have been informed, Mrs. Christophilopoulou and will be closed by Mrs. Ahtsoglou, unless Mr. Lovers has to intervene. Come on, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u296	Thank you, Mr President. Today, of course, the rest of the Members of the Democratic Union who claim the Head of State are missing from Parliament. I imagine, however, that everyone is counting on Mrs Genome's positions. Therefore, free professionals, 80% of the free professionals, expect to return to high contributions again, as you have said. Remember it. Mr Brutsis also promised to abolish Mr.4387 and to return to the whole system that led them to the situation of the huge debt. You keep saying that, so that they know what happens to them, as Mr. Loverd said that it is also the middle-class that supports governments, to know what the next government will be. We therefore continue our efforts. You said why we broke the Law of Loverdos, who was doing well, and why we didn't keep the cardouvelis mail. If it were to do well, since L.4863 was passed in 2010, the so-called Loverdus Act, because then 50 billion cuts began near a five-year period, when the commitment was that the budget expenditure on pensions would not exceed 13% of GDP, why was it so then? It was 13% of GDP with GDP of 226 billion that year. So, with the Law of Loverdus, we'd have 13% all the time. But come on, that went to 17% in 2015. This means more than EUR 8 billion only for pensions, that is, other reductions. So close to EUR 50 billion, plus EUR 8 billion, we would reach EUR 60 billion. That's just what reality says. We didn't hurt him with the Law of Loverdus. It was already overturned in five years. It has never been implemented, because it could not be implemented unless we made such large reductions, which we did not. I want to get back to whoever gets the floor and explain to me how 13% of GDP would be maintained as pension expenditure, despite what happened in the meantime. Because people hear and retired people hear and say that I got a message earlier: "Don't you tell Mr. Brutsi to come and tell us, which until 2014 the pensions were slaughtered and no reduction we had afterwards?" You claim we have 40-50% - I don't know how much you're saying - from 2019 onwards. You say this, of course, arbitraryly, even though the law provides for up to 18% of the maximum. We have said it and it will be confirmed. After all, the questions included in the topical question we are discussing today have already been answered. They were given in March, and the reality has completely overthrown all the questions, because we have no revenue collapse. He was talking about a collapsing revenue. He was talking about FYROM's irreorganization and non-function. We have taken credit from the technical steps that similar operations, in any country, have not had such positive results so far. You are accusing us of the consequences of the policies you have had before, of the previous social security system which has produced debtors. Mr. Koutsoukos asked me what I'm going to do with my compatriots in Crestena who are invited to pay fines and surcharges from the OAU. Well, to tell him that it is the old system that produces these consequences, what we have abolished. From L.4387 there is no OAU and OGA. Simple logic is my answer. Indeed, we will have to deal with all these problems caused by the previous system that we abolished with Mr.4387 and has strangled too many people. It is one of the legislative initiatives that we need to take in the next period, because such legislative initiatives have been taken since May 2016 and not to abolish nr.4387. There is not a single provision of Law4387 that will be abolished. Unless you disagree with the restriction, which is an extension of a provision, the maximum 30% reduction for civil servants who leave early retirement. So, what do we do? And, of course, we have never said that we will not proceed with any better provisions in the social security system, such as that for which we have foreseen support for the mentally ill, or that which we have provided for retirement - which was not the case - for the prisoners, that is to say, that the prisoners can also receive a pension, as is the case with a number of other provisions that we will naturally take in the future. However, they are not abolishing Mr.4387. The engineering fund had an increase of 61%, Mr. Brutsi, from the same provisions and people drowned. And we passed a provision to be able to disconnect the status from the insurance obligation to rescue themselves in these suffocating conditions that you have created with so many high contributions. Of course, with Mr.4387 fortunately for them, they were dealt with because people now go with their net income. There we really have an improved adjustment for the insured, because now it is the net income that is the basis for calculating contributions. So only those who have a net income pay. And we have said that in this process - and we have said so from the resolution of No4387 and all the debates that followed - we will take steps to see how our system works, to proceed with improvements, where necessary, in regulations. This will also be the case for widow's pensions. I'm going to set an example. I was in the province the other day. The mother of a three-year-old child is forty-three years old. With what he hears from you he thought he'd be retiring for only three years, that is, until forty-six, and he says, "What am I gonna do next?"So you say and scare the world. She was ignoring that she would be retired for another twenty-one years, that is until she was sixty-four years old. And, as we clearly say in our circular, it will no longer be possible to pay the widow's pension to those over fifty-five years - because they have minors. And that's how the woman calmed down. Don't say that to the world. There is no need for you all to be affected by the public social security system. You are not doing good either in society or in the prospect of a system that we must keep with piety on a sustainable path and develop it. Because you are being preachers of a water disaster in the development of another logic, the one that has already been forged to combine pensions of 29%. In other words, promise EUR 290 pensions with the studies, which I know very well, and which have also been mentioned in a relatively relevant fora that I have been involved in, as a proposal for the future. It's your ideological theory that they prepare. And if we take cash and this - and I have no reason to question the intentions of the Head of New Democracy - that social inequality is a natural phenomenon, as is the case for man to be different from his side, or I do not know what other theory you will discover, I can assume that this is what you dream of, a system where the mighty one can have to meet the needs of his life, the powerless to live as if he were. We will continue with this policy of strengthening social security. We will improve what we really need to improve and constantly see the measures with great interest, with great care. Wherever the remarks come from, from society, from the citizens, to us is a guide to thinking and looking for the best solutions. We're not trying for anything but the best we can do. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Secretary-General hits the warning bell.]] To close my speech by saying that farmers' pensions were never given in July. They were starting to be given in July. I would like to inform you that in July we gave pensions for the born in '46 and '47. So, it never happened to run out of all pensions by one July. Never in any year. We've kept the schedule. The pensions that I declared will be given in August, were given, in September will be given four thousand and every one of the next few months, will be given by three thousand every month and will be completed at the end of December 2017 with full coverage of the needs of farmers, as we committed and implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u297	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Christophilopoulou has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u298	Mr President, first of all we must correct something that has been heard in this Chamber, that the Democratic Response has tabled this question, and is being debated today because of internal party elections. And since this question has unfortunately been tabled, as the Minister has said, since March, and neither the government - and of course did not want it - nor the Bureau to be discussed, has it now been discussed at the end of the period. To put things in place. There is no question of the elections being ours. We have heard too much, Mr President. We've heard a lot. We heard, above all, the distortion of the distortion by those who came to power lying and trying to rule constantly false ones. So I have a few questions to do from what I have heard. Minister, the surplus in EFKA for which you have been proud to speak with great pride, is the result of the brutal attack by the CRL on the insured who even owed minor debts? Have you ever answered our question about the great ones? Have you ever hurt them? You didn't answer the question, Minister, nor did you ever hurt them. You've been raiding, applaud now the partners you were applauding to the microprocessors. You break them every day and go after them for the surplus of the EKA. You also told us that you received three hundred thousand outstanding pensions. And in addition to what our Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Loverdos, has answered, I would like to ask you: Truth, why didn't you tell us - do you have the data there at the Ministry - how many pensions were issued in 2015 and before 2015? Not only how many unfinished were, but how many pensions we have published, Minister. Your ministry is the evidence and look at it. You also have great pride. In addition, Mr Katrugalos, the patron of this great reform that became a raven, told us that he was proud of the insurance. So Mrs Ahtsoglou continues to tell us today that the insured are happy because they have lower contributions. It forgets, however, to add and does not place the contributions at 11% for subsidiary and one-off. Question: When you impose these reservations retrospectively, will the burden of free professionals and scientists be so low? And because Mr. Petropoulos told us things about Mrs. Gennimatas, as he "how dared to make another proposal and say it," I would say to you that we do not want you to be left alone or to be imitated. But I would like to say this: what will be abolished is the unacceptable insurance burden of 38% of income. That will be abolished and we are in discussion with representatives every day. And Mrs. Gennamas recently in IDH, when she visited her, had a thorough discussion and consultation with them. Yeah, we'll say it and yes, we'll see them, and yes, we'll have a dialogue, because you'll only call to Maximos who likes Tsipras. Remember here and Mrs Ahtsioglou's answer why, when Mr Katrugalou's great law was being discussed, the GFCM was never called? Because we don't like it. Also, the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman accused us of not saying anything about blocks. Let's talk about the blocks. And ask the Minister. Do you think, Mrs. Ahchioglu, that it's only thirty-six thousand employees with blocks? You think we do not know that this regulation that has so far gone to give a little left hand, my dust epistaxis to a highly neoliberal abstract piece of legislation that you have brought, so this stigma - because words of air were, like the entire government's words of air - you thought it was solving the problem with the thirty-six thousand. I will therefore give you another number, both to you and the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative. From the 12-5-16, which was passed by the Katorugalo Law until 25-5-17, that is in one year's time, they closed down, stopped their work, seventy-eight thousand three hundred sixty. And it's not just these, there are many more people who are afraid, who work on black, who shut the blocks, because they're being blackmailed by the employers in these unacceptable arrangements you've brought for the blocks. And you want to be on board for that. Nor did I hear a single reference to our question about successive pensions. Have you issued a successive pension? Mia! Number of ‘one’. So we didn't get answers. Only for widows, and I shall conclude with that, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. The only answer the government has given is that she will see the problem. And Mr. Petropoulos accused us of spreading. You legislate and we spread? What can I say? I have nothing to say. I have only to say this and to finish with it. Mrs Ahchioglu, I am glad you will see the matter, but within that you have confessed what we in the Democratic Association accused you of at the Step and it is no more than a negotiation. Because it is true, and I refer to the testimony of Mr Loverdou, the first Minister of Labour following the crisis, Mr President, that the troika, the institutions, raised the issue with the widows. Uh, they found some willing people at some point to implement it. Negotiate, then, if you can, after you have said yes to everything!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u299	Thank you, Mrs Christophilopoulou. Mr. Loverdo, will you take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u300	I have nothing to say, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u301	The Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mrs Ahtsoglou, has the floor to complete the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u302	I will give precise answers to things that I think have already been answered by me and Mr Petropoulos, but there are still disagreements. The facts are stubborn, but I think they confirm us. I should like to refer to the issue of loose ends. When we took over - I repeat, it is not cases, it is not different estimates, it is data - they were pending - and because we are in the Ministry of Labour well or badly we have the possibility of having access to all the data - three hundred and fifty thousand benefits. There were three hundred eighty - eight thousand benefits coming out when we took over! One hundred and sixty-four thousand were for main pensions. From 1-1-2015 to 30-6-2017 four hundred two thousand benefits were issued, of which about three hundred thousand, are basic pensions. Is there a large number of pensions pending? There is. Does this need to be cleared up as soon as possible? Definitely! That is why we have made working groups with a specific target, we are now monitoring them with a centralised control. We have also anticipated a bonus for these groups of civil servants working overtime for this purpose, and I think they will very soon end up with the problem of outstanding applications for retirement. But when we're swinging our fingers when we left three hundred and fifty thousand outstanding applications for retirement, I think we're off the hook. I heard Mr. Brutsi say that in 2014 we closed the insurance policy and closed the issue and you guys reopened it, because you had great ideas. When we received the fund, the public social security institution, the public social security system had a deficit of about EUR 1,130,000. It is obvious that it was a system to the limits of its collapse. He had 1,130,000 euros in deficits with the fund, the public social security system, when we received it. There was obviously no talk of the primary surpluses, even though you opened it. You couldn't have talked about the primary surpluses when you committed 4% by 2030. And you comment on what this government has achieved in the negotiation, even though the government when it comes here keeps very low tone about the negotiation and says: "Somewhere we did it and somewhere we didn't." We are very sincere: 'We have done it somewhere and we have not.' And we negotiated lower primary surpluses, we ensured 3.5% from 2021 and 2% for the coming years, while you agreed from April 2014 on primary surpluses of 4%. The facts are stubborn. And I come back to wages because all this criticism of wages has been made. The average full-time wage in 2011 with the beginning of 2015 on the Governments of Papademos and Samaras decreased by EUR 180. The average wage for parttime work decreased by EUR 176. Within one night in 2012 by a cabinet act the minimum wage for full-time fell by law under the average wage for part-time work of EUR 586. Obviously - and I reply to Mr Amyras, who has left - this rapid decline in wages has not been restored. I never claimed to have. However, I claimed with ELSTAT that there was a slight increase in wages in 2017. I didn't say the lost ground was overcovered. If that's possible! But to know what we are judging who and when. I want to say some things about the blocks that got closed. As far as the blocks that closed were concerned, then, a mess had been created and reproduced all the media that hundreds of thousands of blocks were closed, because it made the regulation of L.4387 that enabled contributions to be shared and that that is why so many blocks were closed, I inform you that on the basis of the data we have from taxation, in fact the difference between individual companies that interrupted in 2016 compared to 2015 is only two thousand cases. So it has nothing to do with the 100 thousand blocks that closed and were then written in first titles in the newspapers and nothing to do with any irrational situation, which was not the case in previous years. It was in the context of the logical development of economic activity. Nothing dramatic and terrible didn't happen between 2015 and 2016 in relation to the blocks. Finally, in relation to the surplus of EVA - I repeat, if you do not like to hear it - EVA in the first eight months of 2017 is a surplus of 460 million and, obviously, that is something worth highlighting. We should all say together that it is a good thing for the public social security system, and at last it should not be a deficit and it should be a surplus. Obviously, we must stress this. It's the public social security system. It's not our store. It is therefore surplus not because there has been some invasion of the CRL or of the levying mechanisms, but because there is a serious increase in employment, which increases the income from the employees, as well as a quite significant increase in collection, and there is also a better return than the use of the funds' reserves. These three sizes have helped to have good economics today in the system. And we should all think that's good.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u303	But there is an internal loan, Minister, from the non-payment of definitive pensions and from the non-payment of pensions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u304	Oh, no. I thought you'd make this comment. It is not a question of not paying pensions. The payment of pensions is accelerated. Be careful, I noted that we recognise the problem that these should be cleaned up faster, but the surplus of the ECA has nothing to do with it. The rate of pension award has accelerated in recent years. Again, the surplus is created because of the three factors I mentioned: increasing wage earners' contributions, increasing wage earners' contributions, increasing income from the free-professionals - small but important - and a better return on the funds' reserves, which have been concentrated on a common chapter which has better returns. That's the data. I think that, at least on this point, we should all think that this is a development towards the sustainability of the system.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u305	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u306	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u307	I asked you if you wanted to take the floor before. The Minister will have to answer after that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u308	Mr President, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, my dentistry follows the intervention of the ministers and if they want to quantify. We don't have the right to tritology. That's what the Rules of Procedure say.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u309	All right, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u310	Mr President, I note - you were not here, you were not presided over at that time - that Mrs Gennamas raised a point about the shipwreck in Saronic and the economic and ecological disaster. The Minister didn't answer, covering for her colleague. He raised the question that ministers from the Ministry of Labour and Social Security do not stand in the field of collective political responsibility and empty their colleague. The State Secretary and the Minister took the floor and made no mention. This parliamentary procedure is closing down with the unprecedented fact that the opposition is raising a question, indeed that the party leader does so, and the ministers are not covering up their colleague. The confession of political responsibility for the management of the shipwreck is now evident, though with silence. Secondly, anyone who listens to the ministers of this ministry speaks, sees that they are using two years of strenuously. They are using the strong lasting, for example, 'becoming' - two and a half years, three years will be closed to the government - and the future 'will be'. However, there is no mention of something they have already done. The answer, if there is a tritology, is on the question concerning EKKA: How many new pensions under the Katrugalos law have they given since May 2016? None, Mr President. If they have another statistic, give it up. Now Mr. Petropoulos made a reference to economic sizes, about insurance, which constitute an intellectual 'excursion' and a numerical absurdity. I have to tell him about his arguments - which we hear with respect, and if he has any more to tell us - that we had some studies in favour of our numerical arguments. We had the Greek Analog Authority. You underestimate her, it's none of my business. But we had it. We also had the relevant study experiment by the relevant Eurogroup committee. We also had ILO, who, in order to have his opinion, had travelled to his seat with Mr Koutromanis and had worked together to yield the final result. We have had reinforced studies on our own legislative initiative by three bodies. You didn't have anyone. Hence the hundred and seven changes to the Katrugalu law, which you have done. Don't tell me you didn't do anything, because a noose you did to me. I'll take it. But first of all, your colleague has tabled paragraphs that you have changed. Secondly, I remember myself in your last speech to say that of the thirty-two articles concerning the law insurance, which was only a few days ago published in the FEK, the thirteen made a change in the Katrugalo Law and Article 1 made five changes. It may not be the case that you have not intervened in your creation. A word on the interconnection, Mr President, of the insurance sector with the economy has still not been heard. I, as Minister of Labour, said that our Ministry - your Ministry today - is being blamed for situations in the field of insurance. But the first form must be done at times and now, in the future, in the functioning of the economy and the relevant interventions of the relevant finance ministers. Insurance accepts the problem, doesn't give birth to it. If, in fact, you do the appropriate interventions, they really don't give it up. When the economy has problems, however, insurance comes to the first problem from a budgetary point of view. All our designs were based on the fact that since 2015 - it had been made since the end of 2014 - the Greek economy is returning to rapid growth, according to the forecasts of the European Central Bank, the International Monetary Fund, the European Commission. It was 3% one year, 3.7% the other year, 3.5% the other year. These have been lost to parades by the lovers of power, having a great idea of themselves and excessive self-esteem. This is what this is all about, and that is why Greece is chartered. No attempt can find the other one. Here we have a question about who will be a government. This is the misery of SYRIZA policies and 100% of SYRIZA policies. What have they done, Mr. President? They turn the country back in terms of economy, they lose billions - part of which would naturally go to the Treasury, but a very large part would go to the insurance funds - they abolish this course, in order for them to become the same government, they also make a change of insurance, after cutting off with the third Memorandum and by a sum, which the Parliamentary representative of the Communist Party rightly said. We did not vote for these, colleague. We voted that the country should not fall on the rocks because we were broken into the House. You were here, remember them. We shouldn't have let the country fall on the rocks. That is what we have voted on, not their policies. And after they do all this, they come and make a terrible insurance policy for anyone who understands, who forty years paid his contributions, they lower the rate of insurance. Henceforth, for the person who paid insurance contributions thirty years. And they make a product where the more contributions you have paid, the less pension, because the more cuts you will suffer. So these people are coming here now and coming in and talking to us philosophically. They add some numbers, which were demonstrated in the previous procedure, that they are arbitrary and selective. It is also a question of the relationship between Parliament and the government, but also of your own course. You've committed crime. You were the hardest of every government in the crisis. One example is embodied, and that's what I'm closing down. Three years, colleagues, I was being pushed for widow's pensions. A year ago, I and the rest of my colleagues, either Mr Kutrumanis or after Mr Brutsis. We didn't accept it. You have cut 177 million - so you anticipate it at least, the act will show how much it is - of the interventions you have made in widow's pensions. You have no face to come to the House, at least to talk about social sensitivities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u311	The State Secretary, Mr Petropoulos, has asked for the floor. Do you get three minutes, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u312	Thank you, Mr President. I shall be brief, and I shall be confined to very few words. Let me just say that all the things we've seen together, we've all seen. We saw there was a collapse in the social security system and huge deficits. Forget it once, it can't be. The deficits were beastly. I said a specific example. The commitment and the framework of the so-called 'Loverd Law' provided for the maintenance of part as a budget deficit of 13% of the pensions. All reductions have been made and it has come to 17% of GDP from pensions. They'd take eight billion. That's the truth. These reductions made also had a provision in the 'Chardouvel' mail - as has also been named, which was never implemented because it was the beginning of a debate - for pensions that raised the age limit at the age of seventy-two and a constant change in the base. With such conditions of change in terms of increasing reductions, i.e. reductions in pensions and an increase in age limits, I also know how to do so. However, this is not called Ν.3863/2010. It is called the "remnant" of an old system, which was not even there. As far as the issues we have developed are concerned, we are aware of a difficult situation. We have said that we will take the measures, which will be better at all times. We are listening to society, we are listening to problems, we are improving conditions and we will, in fact, create better conditions where we need to take measures. On the subject of Saronics, the government has been placed. It makes no sense for every minister to ask and say what the Prime Minister has said today. The entire state mechanism has been activated to give the shortest possible solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u313	Thank you, Minister. The debate on the No 14/12/16-3-2017 topical and urgent question was closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-18-S1-commons.u314	With the agreement of the House at 23.17 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday 19 September 2017, at 18.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work, according to the agenda distributed.
