ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 1-11-2017, the minutes of its meetings of Wednesday 1 November 2017, with regard to the vote on the whole draft law ‘Amendment of Law 2939/2001 on the alternative management of packaging and other products, adaptation to Directive 2015/720/EU, regulation of issues of the Greek Recycling Agency and other provisions’.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We begin with the first 161/30-10-2017 question of the first cycle of the Athens Parliamentary Assembly of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannitas (Anitas) Kavadias to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Involvement budget". Please, Mrs. Cavadia, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, SYRIZA has already included the revision of the institutional framework governing local government, as well as the relationship between it and the central government. This is how our government and our party wanted to show the importance of the self-government institution for the Left. In the context of these priorities, a committee was set up under Article 5 of L.4368/2016 to review the institutional framework of local government, the findings of which have now been given public consultation. Just in the context of this consultation and in the light of the final decisions, which are being prepared by the Ministry's leadership, I felt it useful to bring back to the fore the proposal to introduce participatory budget procedures into the operation of the institutions, a proposal which has already been included in the proposals and the agenda of the renewing and radical left. For example, it applies today to a growing number of European cities such as Cordova, Seville, municipalities around Barcelona, Rome, Naples, Venice, Milan, the wider Manchester region, Berlin, Poitié, in municipalities in Paris. If I am not mistaken, about a thousand cities worldwide - eighty of them in Europe - have so far adopted - in variations, of course - to draw up participatory budgets. In all these cities, where the participatory budget was implemented, the public was given the opportunity to intervene before decision-making by submitting their opinion, which was not only of an advisory nature, but also of a decisive role, always, of course, under specific conditions. Thus, through this process, popular participation in issues relating to everyday life has been widened and steps have been taken towards a more direct-democratic relationship between citizens and power. It is clear that the planned legalisation of simple proportional to municipal and regional elections will be a brave step in the fight against malicious acts that appear in the institution of local government. I believe, however, that the adoption, of course, of the security controls of the participatory budget to the municipalities and regions of the country may also play a very important role in restoring the confidence and participation of citizens in what we call a 'public sphere'. I therefore look forward to your answer to my question as to whether you are considering including participatory and to what extent in your direct legislative initiatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Cabadia. Minister, you have the floor for your prototype for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Kavvadia, it is true that at the initiative of our Government and after an unprecedented Greek data process of open dialogue and consultation, we are at the end of the development of a project of profound change in the current institutional framework of local government. This is a debate which is not based on the conclusion of this committee, which has completed its work since February last year, but a debate that has gone far beyond the limits of this committee, which is continuing every day in various ways or through direct communication with the mayors and districts elected, either with their own bodies or with their own citizens. I think that despite the objectively difficult obstacles within the current difficult context of tight fiscal policy, there are changes that are mature in the field of local government. As you know, we are starting from a concept of strengthening the participation of citizens in local government. We cannot understand the case of local government without a leading role for the citizens themselves. That is why proposals like that of the participatory budget are, we would say, in our own perception. It is one of what we are studying and working on, based on international experience. Because such procedures give citizens the floor, they lead to proper planning at the level of the municipalities and ultimately to the best possible use of any resources available to the municipalities for projects and interventions in their area. We are therefore open to this proposal, because we want through dialogue and participation, ultimately, to reach these choices, which will be the result of wider consensus. It helps itself the texture of the problems of local government in such a process. In this sense, we support such an electoral system, which will give exactly a new impetus to the issue of dialogue, participation, compositions and consensus in the field of local government, which is the simple proportional electoral system, which is fearful of all kinds of local government, but not of civil society itself. In this sense, within the grid and the range of changes that we are promoting, it is also the change in the electoral system by adopting the simple analogy which will create and consolidate a different culture of compositions and partnerships, but also such proposals, such as you mentioned, the introduction of participatory procedures and, in particular, the issue of the participatory budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Cavadia, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u7	I am pleased, Minister, for your positive attitude to proposals like this. The fact is that perhaps the most important problem of representative democracy is that of alienation, which people and social groups are feeling against political processes. There is no doubt that every four or every five years the election process will not suffice to make the people feel involved in what we call 'decision-making', although these concern them not only to a large extent, but to an absolute extent. Globalization or giantization due to the neoliberalism of supranational operational structures with an economic force multipliers of GDP, such as Greece, this well-known deficit of democratic functioning of the European Union, which the SYRIZA has emphasised many times in the European institutions, all of which, together with isotopics - will allow me the term - political perceptions that are deliberately moved by many media, undeniably lead to a dismantling attitude to employment with politics, especially young people of young age. Democracy clearly cannot be and can be useful to people without the oxygen of citizens' involvement with the public. What we call idiosyncrasy or indifference in the public sphere, a shift towards individual by contempt for the collective, accelerating market ideology as a result of an uninterrupted and well-designed attack of years against the social sphere, all this undoubtedly needs a new institutional arsenal in order to address themselves in the name of not a neutral defence of some democracy, but in the name of defending that democratic culture which guarantees social justice and social solidarity. As the left, and indeed as a governing left, we have a duty to promote popular participation, public control - you mentioned it - and popular emancipation, in line with our worthy proposals and our political plan. By now focusing on this issue in itself, I would stress that the introduction of procedures, such as the participatory budget, is responding - to a first degree, it is true - to the demand for transparency and accountability in the functioning of democracy, precisely in order to deepen democracy itself. In order for there to be a substantial result, however, as I mentioned in my first speech, there is a need for a certain degree of security. For example, citizens' assemblies are required to facilitate access to and equal participation by all citizens in the procedures, and the development of procedures which, for example, exclude the weakest, least educated or with little political experience, must be hampered. In this direction, of course - I will say again - the participatory budget is not the only initiative to promote the participation and defence of social management. But it is, of course, - and with this I am closing down - a move of strategic importance, as the change of attitude of the institutions in such a matter is taken by the citizens as a strong message, which demonstrates a real will for change. Thus, its role can undoubtedly be important for restoring the relationship between citizens and power, while at the same time being a reform hub of general political practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cabadia. Please, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u9	In adopting the reasoning for your speech, I have the opportunity to refer a little bit to what is currently happening in the field of self-government. In theory, on the basis of the institutional framework of the 'CALKARAT', the Consultation Committee is institutionalised. The Conciliation Committee could say that it has some votes. It is a pretext for a people's participation, in which representatives of local organisations, professional bodies, workers, movements, citizens, and so on. There is one question: How much did we use it to the municipalities today? How, in the end, the will of the hereditaries, of the elected representatives of local societies and their practice was that which even this small vote of participatory procedure, which provided for and provided for in the current institutional framework, became a reality? At least the information I have - and I hope it is not the exact one - is that it has been exploited in very few cases. In spite of the advisory nature, which is of its own value - even at this level - these Consultative Committees have been in very few cases. I would like to tell you, by extending your reasoning, that institutional changes are not enough. The right people, who adopt such a perception of function, encourage popular participation, and really believe that the case of local government is a matter first of all for the citizens. I think, therefore, that through this whole grid of forward-looking changes, new powers, self-government and local will be allowed to manifest their interest in shaping the choices concerning their own cities and organising everyday life and living. Local government cannot be a culpture of the central political scene, as is the case in many cases. It is something that drives people out of the participatory process. It is a mistake to realise that the matter of local government officials is finally working as a stepping-stone to move to the central political scene. It is something that the central political scene does not need and, above all, local government does not need it. All of this I think we will have the opportunity in the next few months, as we are in the process of completing our proposals, to discuss them thoroughly both in the Chamber and outside the Chamber. I personally, in a series of direct visits to the region, have the opportunity to discuss them with the elected representatives of local communities and I can assure you that they have begun and broken housing, break established perceptions. What was afraid of one, two years ago, of the introduction of mere analogy is something that is currently being discussed by a very wide political spectrum of self-government factors. People who do not touch, are not talking about, in our political area today, finding the new dynamics behind the introduction of mere analogy, the new dynamics for the benefit of such local societies as the participatory budget, who will actually come to give a new dimension to the issue of citizens' participation and to function refreshingly for local communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Minister. We move to the third with number 207/31-10-2017 a topical question by MP II Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Home Affairs on the "Help at Home" programme and the conversion of workers' contracts in indefinite time. Mr Katsotis, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. We are coming back, Minister, and we are starting with the question of whether the government intends to ensure the continuity of the 'Help at home' programme - it is well known that the extension at the end of December is due to end - and if, at last, these workers' contracts, which have been signed with the ADP, who have been working for over fifteen years, are prepared to turn them into an indefinite one. It is well known, Minister, and we have discussed this issue here, that a million of our fellow people need benefits and services such as the 'Help at Home' programme. In order to satisfy these needs of the whole world, there is a need, in addition to the conversion of workers' contracts into an indefinite period of time, for the overall development of "Help at Home" by means of massive, permanent recruitments, so that any services provided for free, without walls and cuts, which are integrated into a state-owned health system, completely free of charge, which meets the modern needs of prevention, treatment and rehabilitation of health. It is well known that there are eight hundred seventy-five structures today with three and a half thousand workers. Fifteen years, Minister, are these workers with these industrial relations. This programme cannot be of a perpetual nature. You have said here that as a government of SYRIZA you consider this programme to be permanent. So it cannot be with programmes or these extensions nor, of course, this programme or these services should be given to the predators of business groups. "Help at Home" workers have been agitated several times by your Government, precisely because you committed yourself to moving forward to the conversion of their contracts in indefinite time. However, so far there has been no such initiative on your part. Please answer the questions. The workers expect these answers from you to these questions we have raised from the outset.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much, Mr Katsotis. Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u13	Mr Katsotis, it is not very long, just a few months, if I am not mistaken, that you had tabled the same time-consuming question and answered you. I will reply exactly the same way, with the same reasoning and arguments, because we remain irresistible in our position that the hostage and insecurity status for the more than three thousand workers in the 'Help to Home' must once be brought to an end. That is not only what we say in this House, but we tell the workers that they do not bother us at all when we meet. For you have used the phrase 'every time you have been disturbed'. The government is not annoyed when it has dialogue with the workers, with the agencies. It is in its own democratic concept of culture and function. In any case, however, what I find uninformed is that this programme, on the basis of Article 153 of Law 4483/2017, has been extended until 31/12/2019, and the working arrangements of the workers concerned, and also the safeguarding of resources, so that this programme can continue. It seems to me, because you are always informed, how this has escaped your attention. I was able to meet with the workers' representatives last week at the Ministry - in the presence of Mrs Gerovas - and discuss the crucial issue of their employment status. Because we were first and we will not stop saying that - and indeed many times, we are accused, because we are telling the truth, because we are saying out loud, loudly - that there is indeed, under the responsibility of the previous governments, a working hostage regime, a work-strengthening regime for relations and the public for lasting and constant needs. The fifteen years you're talking about is a real time. Yes, well, these workers must be treated differently on the basis of the nature of their service provided, on the basis of their real employment relationship, but this cannot be a solution that will collapse the next day. So I would ask you once again, personally and to the Communist Party, to put forward proposals that say 'convert today's work or work contracts automatically to permanent and infinite', you understand that, on the basis of the current institutional framework, they take over the next one. It's just to be said, it's just to create impressions. So we are interested in the right time, in the right way, within the framework imposed by the Constitution and, on the other hand, in European legislation, in giving such a solution. We are working on this and we have also told the workers we met last week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Minister. Please, Mr Katsotis, for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u15	Minister, we have no escaped anything. We said it's a program extension and it can't be a prolongation. Expansion means daily. We want a permanent service to those who need it, with workers who have an indefinite contract, permanent, stable job. You said on June 15, which had been the previous question - I am reading the Minutes - 'We are at that stage that we are forming, I repeat - and it is not easy - the legislation that will try to respond to this issue'. How long are you going to be at this stage of formatting? Because, okay, the debate, but to talk about discussing or discussing with the workers and to promise rabbits with rocks when the Pope permits that, I cannot describe that. You're mocking them, Minister. No other expressions can be found. I told the workers right after June 15, when they smuggled into the Constitution, that the government - and this government - is mocking you. You call on the European Union, the Constitution and a number of other such arrangements that you are doing, which you are legislating, to be hostage to the workers, to ensure cheap labour in large capital and business groups and that is what you are doing. Now, with the third assessment you want to put on the plaster and the labour movement with the overturning of the trade union movement, with the obstacles you put into organising the struggle for workers and the people. However, the answers will be given by the working class, as we are doing today - and we welcome the initiatives of the trade unions - by the symbolic occupation of the Ministry of Labour, in response to this anti-popular policy, in the new fire that you are coming to take against the workers. Minister, you have promised many times here - but you have denied the workers - and EUR 751 wages and that collective agreements will come back and that you will satisfy other demands of the workers, who are today claims of the labour movement, who will certainly not stop. Workers in the "Help at Home", too, do not stop claiming permanent and stable work. They will not stop claiming this service to be offered free of charge to all those who need it. The workers themselves will not stop claiming this service, because they need it, it is their right, and they cannot be deprived of any reform, which can give it to the big capital. In this direction, we invite you to finally formulate the arrangements that you have promised workers to convert this working hostage to their contract into an indefinite period of time. You're committed. You're exposed. Because, indeed, the workers are listening to us, they must draw conclusions from these debates which once again have to come to a conclusion. The debates cannot be eternal, there should be the 'will', 'will' and 'form our regulation'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u16	Thank you very much Mr Katsotis. Please, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. We do not feel any controversy with the workers, Mr Katsotis. We think that their mobilisations are one of those which strengthen our own efforts, so that we can resolve an issue that we did not create. I wonder how you come here and take out the governments of PASOK and New Democracy, as for 15 years - you said so yourself - there is this regime in some cases!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u18	You wash them out!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u19	So you are coming now and you are blaming the government, which is actually trying, with any possibility, through which small cracks in this current restrictive framework have been made to win things for workers. You come and give her up. I really don't understand what kind of deformative lenses you see reality. So who's making fun of the workers? The one who promises that he can go beyond the Constitution, the next, make a provision that will suppress? Didn't you see this when your own trade union forces, with the same demand in the case of cleaning workers, told us, "Should you automatically transform the contracts in indefinite time?" The Court of Auditors came and made a decision that not only left the conversion, but stopped these contracts in progress. Fortunately, it has been the government's correct and legally solid initiative to solve the Gordian bond of contractors to cleanliness. That's why we've been going to a competition that's been over six thousand five hundred for the first time in the years of the memorandum since 2010 for permanent jobs. So instead of applauding these things, you come and put them aside and you get arrested, you speak of the Memorandum Governments of SYRIZA, PASOK and the New Democracy. If you think that this is how you gain credibility towards the workers, the reality is disgusting to you. And you put it all in a bucket and talked about the north of politics and monopolies. What does it have to do with a public service, of which - I repeat - we have ensured the extension for another two years from national resources, with all that you say? We proceeded with this, precisely because we do not want to do what you are complaining about, precisely because we believe that these services must be provided by the state or local government. Is the obstacle at the moment to the recruitment rule - public departure rule? There is. You know that. So leave us in a solid and effective way to give a definitive solution to this issue and do not exhaust yourself to unbearable promises, which ultimately underestimate the intelligence of the workers themselves. I repeat that we are not terrified of mobilization. Allied moves are those. Friendly moves are those. These create the well-intentioned social and political pressure to mature changes. But we also have an absolute conscience of the obstacles and situations that we live in. So I repeat that our intention is clear. That's where we'll move. That's what we tell the workers. And in the end they will assess us, based on the final result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u20	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question in the House on Friday 3 November 2017. Oh, I'm sorry. QUESTIONS TO THE Prime Minister (Article 129(2) and (3) and Rule 132(1) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 158/9/26-10-2017 topical question by the President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, to the Prime Minister, on the subject: "Expression of crime and an increase in the phenomena of violence". "B" A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 210/31-10-2017 by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the massive power cuts in popular households and small businesses in the Municipality of Karystos. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos' timely question to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on 'Sun Energy' by No 159/27-10-2017. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Ms Miltiadis Varvitsiotis, Member of Parliament, with No 167/30-10-2017, a topical question to the Minister of Migration Policy, on the subject: "The preparation of hospitality structures for the winter season". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 192/30-10-2017 topical question by Independent MEP II Piraeus Mr.Theodoras Megalonikou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy on "Red" remains pollution from the oil spill in Saronic despite the assurances of the Minister of Shipping". Τ M A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 112/23-10-2017 topical question by the Member of Parliament, Mr Jason Fotella, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Will we finally be given a solution to the issue of AMIADIT'? 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 103/20-10-2017 by H' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Mr Piraeus II of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy concerning the lack of environmental inspectors in northern Greece. 3. The question by No 149/24-10-2017 of the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP for the Athens I of Potamio Mr. Spyridonos Lykoudis to the Minister for Migration Policy on the subject: 'Increased refugee flows'. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 9/2-10-2017 by MP Halkidiki of New Democracy Mr Georgios Vagionas to the Minister of Economy and Development on the subject: "The threat of a band for thousands of bakeries". We are continuing on the issue of today's topical and urgent debate. Mr. Mavragans, invoking a workload, has asked to precede Mr. Apostleus. Thank you, Mr. Apostolos, for giving his order. So we will proceed to the fifth with number 202/31-10-2017, a topical question from the Z Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Mr. Spyridonos Lykoudis to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport on the subject: "The old age of the cars is a burden on the atmosphere." Mr Vice-President, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the issue of air pollution in big cities is a very well-known issue. It's an international matter, I'd say. It is not Greek, it is not only about the capital. It is important, however, if we try to approach this issue in order to give some solutions, not to stay in the vague, orchestrated arithmologies of the type "what evil is the cloud", "we can't afford to live with it" etc. and to try to isolate issues that contribute to air pollution, to see how we can resolve them. That's what I'm bringing today with my question and it's about the age of cabs, the old age of cabs in the capital. I would like to make three remarks to put my question to you. One of the most important factors of pollution in Athens is the oldest taxi traffic. According to what is happening to date in Greece, for cars up to 1.950 cubic centimeters, the change should take place in fifteen years, while for the corresponding over 1.950 cubic centimeters the change should take place in eighteen years, when the average throughout Europe is ten years. Secondly, I would like to say that I am very pleased You know very well that taxis are part of air pollution, far more than any other cause of pollution, because emissions of pollutants in these vehicles are much greater than other corresponding passenger cars, as they constantly increase speeds, have continuous stops and emit much greater pollutants. And thirdly, you know very well that there is a regulation in the European Union, one, two, three, four, five, six, six in relation to the old age of cars, where our taxi is in the low categories, so they are much more burdened by the corresponding Europeans than the Athenian environment and the atmosphere. It is important to isolate the issue, to see if we can resolve it. So I ask you what the Ministry is thinking about, to deal with this issue in the light of the debate we are now having with the bill you are going to bring. What measures does it intend to take - and I recognise it, it is your government and our opposition - and given that, in the critical economic period that the country is going through today and in its judgment, we are obviously sympathetic to our nice friends, taxi workers and taxi owners for their financial difficulties, but we can only take some initiatives to regulate the issues that are related to atmospheric pollution and atmospheric pollution. So I ask you what you think and what you can do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u22	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President. Please, Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u23	Your Honor, Mr Vice-President, thank you very much for the question. It is a very crucial question, not only because it is timely because a bill is coming that will dissipate this field, but why you are essentially putting a question of coining and weighing two different laws of goods: on the one hand, the environment and the principle of sustainability, on the other hand, the survival of our fellow people in the shitty economic crisis that we have been experiencing for several years and Article 5 of the Constitution, precisely for the development of personality and, on the other hand, Article 21 of the Constitution on the foundation of the family and, on the other hand, Article 24 on the environment. That is where we need to weigh the factors. On the one hand we really need to see the environmental problem, which you have quite rightly described, and on the other hand we need to see their own survival and if at the moment we can all cumulatively change cars with newer technology. I will tell you that the average of vehicles right now in Greece from some of the elements we have is about Euro 5, but it is not Euro 6, that is true. Euro 5 and Euro 4 are most. On the other hand, we should see whether we can put rules on environmental protection without, at least by 2020, obliging them to go to changes of vehicles. So we are also concerned about how to deal with this weighting. Our idea is that we should tighten up the checks at the CTEO. Indeed, since the last Ministerial Decision 37565/2010, but also the one we legislated two months ago in 2017, which will have effect, but later, it appears that one of the main axes on which control is moving in the CTEOs is precisely the purity of emissions, namely the emission limits and how clean the engine is. This is reflected in Article 8 of the relevant Ministerial Decision, which is currently in force, and in the reference back, in the eighth chapter which says precisely exhaust emissions and their limits on petrol engines and diesel engines. So there, because you are, indeed, right - often or I.C. Cars or ICUs cars, such as cabs, perhaps avoid control of CTEOs, we need to tighten the field with certain rules, which may have to be in the direction of not being able to insure a vehicle if it has no CTEO or the extension of the fine and the checks that need to be carried out, so that precisely any pollution can be reduced by the regulator engines. It would be very hard, however, and it would substantially insult Article 5 of the Constitution, if we went from now on into the economic crisis and said cumulatively, so you all change vehicles for those who have crossed age limits and by 2020 you should all have changed them. The idea, therefore, is that by 2020, we should be tolerant of this and of the other, the environment, we should be strict in their control of CTEO technical benches. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Vice-President, Mr Lykoudi, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u25	Minister, first of all I would like to thank you for having accepted the seriousness of the matter and it seems that you are in the mood to deal with it. That's not a little bit. I try every time not to exercise parliamentary control within a framework of opposition criticism, but to see how I can contribute to solving matters. But I must tell you that I was surprised to hear what you said. There's no way you're right, I'll look into it. I think, however, that I am right when I say that in the numbering of Euro taxis in Greece it is around 3 and not around 5, as you said. In other words, it's a much lower category. I shall look into it, however, because I do not want to question what you say as the Minister responsible. Secondly, I would like to say that I am very pleased I would like to say this: if, given the economic crisis and the sensitivity you have towards our fellow citizens, who are professionals in the cab area - I said it at the very beginning in my question - we think we should extend the current situation for another seven years, I think we have not chosen...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u26	Two years.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u27	It's not two.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u28	By 2020.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u29	It's until 2022.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u30	It's until 2020.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u31	We're having a good conversation, I'll see that. I just say that every extension, as you know very well, of the current situation, has a multiplier character in relation to the pollution emitted by a taxi. In other words, the two, three or four years of the movement of an old-age taxi is equivalent to ten, twenty, thirty years of age of pollution emitted by a passenger car, always in relation to the pollutants, which its frequent movement leaves and constant attitudes. That's on one side. On the other hand, I would like to say to you - I honestly believe this and it is not a compliment - that I do not believe that if you do so, you do so in some kind of ruptured form, because there is a world in which there needs to be a politician who has contact with him and who can be treated with sympathy, perhaps in order to collect votes tomorrow, tomorrow. I believe, however, that it is within a normal lightness that we have and with which we are dealing with matters, when there are too many things to solve in our hump, and I understand that. The government has a number of issues to solve and very large issues. There's that, too. Very easily he could say 'Let's leave it for two, three more years and we'll see what happens'. But this resignation and extension, on the other hand, I think that nothing helps. I understand that this is a serious matter and I understand that it is not easy. I'm telling you, honestly. But a government which exercises power and manages society and its problems is not just about the easy and difficult to intervene. In other words, if he finds it difficult to find a balance between pollution and the difficulty of economics with professionals, he can look for a solution. I am not out of the search for a solution, but at this point I exercise control over you, the Minister, and I do not demand that, given the difficulty of pollution on the one hand, it is difficult for taxi professionals on the other, to seek a solution, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Lykoudi. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u33	Your Honor, Mr Vice-President, you're right. That's what you had to do. The timely question is correct and I thank you very much for it. You're doing well and you're actually asking for a weighting of the two legal goods. The private development of personality towards the economy in Article 5 of the Constitution along with the foundation of the family in Article 21 of the Constitution and Article 24 on the environment that we all care about. So I'm talking about that. Because of the de minimis regulation on the one hand and Law 1370/2007 on the other hand, if I am not mistaken, the European Regulation on the other hand, we cannot finance private transport companies. Just like we can't do trucks for cabs. So in order to be able, on the one hand, to help the situation by 2020 - not for 20 years, by 2020 - and on the other, not to insult the environment, that is to say, neither the hard core of Article 5 of the Constitution nor Article 24, the only way that we have found, is from one to the 2020, to extend from the other to stricterisation, as I have told you, by the methods of non-insurance if there is no CTEO and the imposition of stricter controls by the CTEO, as well as fines if there has not been any technical control by the CTEO. Because indeed, if all cars were fixed and had passed KTEO, these technical checks are sufficiently suffocating in terms of engine purity. So we could all enjoy a cleaner environment. Thinking is a great deal of thought. I don't think there's panacea. I believe that these two bullets conflict daily and always good ideas are welcome. Thank you once again for the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now proceed to two topical questions to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Evangelos Apostolos, who will be confused, without any time being violated, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure. These timely questions are as follows: The first question under number 166/30-10-2017, the second question of the Parliamentary Serres of New Democracy Mr. Fotinis Arabatzis, on the subject: "The anguish of the young farmers involved continues" and the second question under number 165/30-10-2017, the first question of the Parliamentary Kilkis of the New Democracy Mr. George Georgios Georgios Georgios, on the subject: "The injustice against the young farmers involved continues." Mrs. Arabaji, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the Youth Farmers Programme has become "the bridge of Arta", as four months after the announcement of the results after three extensions and a year after the project was announced, three thousand hundred and twenty young farmers are in the air, despite the opposing commitments both yours and, of course, the Prime Minister himself. These tenants, Minister, who are a thousand and thirty-four in central Macedonia, of which two hundred and twenty-two in the Serres Prefecture, four hundred eighty-two in Thessaly in Crete, four hundred and twenty-eight in western Greece, three hundred and fifty-nine in western Macedonia, and seventy-seven in eastern Macedonia and Thrace, have not been excluded because they do not meet the criteria for their integration into the programme, but because of the unbalanced, irrational distribution of funds that you have made in the regions of the country, so that there are regions with indisposable amounts and regions with surpluses. You did so unorthodoxly, which, for example, in central Macedonia, which also has most of the perpetrators, since the first division, you have only given 18% of the total budget of the programme, when central Macedonia contributes to the country's agricultural GDP by 26%. The mistake goes on, since after the overcompensation of 10%, for which you were committed, money will be paid back to the regions, which have an overcrowded budget and have no farmers to pay them. We would, of course, remind you that all the newly appointed young farmers, 12 000 young farmers in the programme, and, of course, three thousand recruits, while at the Government of SYRIZA - ANEL three thousand and twenty-three, are being thrown out of programme despite your commitments in Larissa on 12 July 2017 to increase the amount of EUR 300 million, which, if overcompensation is made, from 241 will reach 260, as you know, and to include twenty-four thousand young farmers - you said so, Minister - when we have barely reached ten thousand today. The anguish, Minister, of the particular beneficiaries as you can imagine is being glossed, because of the fact that a long period of time has elapsed - four months from the announcement of the results - on the other hand, because many of them are, in fact, wood hanged, since they have been forced to start agricultural activities and why have they been forced to do so? For the first time in time, the evaluation of young farmers has been carried out since the IACC declarations were submitted, with the result that there is a risk that these people will find themselves outside the next programme of setting up young farmers. So, because four months have passed and young farmers have made promises, I ask you: will the perpetrators join the programme? How many people will join, when and how much money? From any other money that you will bring from the Rural Development Programme from other codes, namely, or from the reallocation of funds from the regions where they are in surplus? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u36	Thank you very much Mrs. Arabaji. Mr Georgios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I think it's time for clear and clear answers. You owe it to all the young people of the country, to all the young farmers who believed that they really have a chance to engage in agricultural activities, which, as you yourself support in your answers, would improve the ageing population who is engaged in agricultural activities but at the same time would increase the competition of our country. So while there has been this incentive, while there has been this opportunity, you have succeeded in doing so too, to have created much more issues than you would theoretically solve. I will speak very simply and please have as clear a response as possible. Of the thirteen regions on the basis of the criteria you have made, on the basis of the requests made, all the requests made have been met by seven of them and six of them have been received. The criteria are good or bad, and I need to get over the way you have put them, but we have a given one in front of us. In six of these regions - where the region of central Macedonia has the largest number of young farmers involved - there are unsatisfactory requests from young people who have believed that they will be able to find a way out of business and, indeed, from the primary sector, which we all know is how important it is for the economy of our country. So those who met all the criteria you have set, which have a moleculosis, which is far greater than the moleculation of other young farmers in other regions of the country, are now waiting, are hanging on your lips to see whether or not they will be able to continue, when this will be done and where the money will be found. I hear two-sided statements and government officials and the Prime Minister himself. We cannot on the one hand speak and say that you will try to make a commitment and on the other not to talk about the need for a new distribution. There's got to be a redistribution. The young farmer in central Macedonia, with fifty three molecules, cannot wait and try and find good young farmers in the Attica region with forty molecules. What am I going to say to the farmer in central Macedonia, who has filled fifty five molecules and is waiting? That we're looking for and making applications in the Attica district, while no applications were made? Sixty-nine applications were made in the Attica region in total. By force and by other regions in the country to acquire agricultural orientation or hide political purposes? I have to say it, and please for your answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Georgioda. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, thirty-five students and students and two teachers - their attendants from the 2nd Municipal School of Greek. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, you have the floor for six minutes to answer the two honourable Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u39	First of all, ladies and gentlemen, the political aspirations - far from us - seek the Committee of the Regions in Greece, because this allocation has been made with the absolute agreement and consent of the Greek Committee of the Regions. So, for this sub-measure, we have been given a really large consultation with the regional authorities, we have taken their proposals seriously and we have reached this distribution. We used specific criteria, which were many and were not limited to the size of the gross added value of the primary sector alone, but they also valued employment, the importance of livestock farming in the region, expressed in proportion to the size of livestock, the age structure as a percentage of farmers under thirty-five years who had a typical yield of over 8 000 euros per hectare, the observed demand expressed as a percentage of absorption for each region, under the measure in question in the previous Agricultural Development Programme 2007-2013. We have not only seen the previous one, but also what happened with the previous ones, but we better talk about this later. So, on the basis of these criteria, we had 241 million and have announced them in search of 12 000 farmers. That was the direction. From there on, you know that the second assessment of candidates' applications has been completed and already 70% of young farmers have been paid. Of the thirteen regions, as you have said, the seven have no perpetrators. In fact, the five regions had an excess of about 25 million euros. The invitation to these 25 million euros was made public. We did so because we agreed with the Greek Committee of the Regions that the five regions concerned should be given a second opportunity. These five regions are the Attica, Epirus. You see that there was no political purpose, for the simple reason that these regions for alpha or beta could not be absorbed. However, we felt it appropriate to allow them, particularly the first year of implementation of the programme. We therefore have the South Aegean Region, the Region of Central Greece. Don't tell me anything, because sometimes you fly and say, "Sterreas Region, Greece, so its constituency". It's the Ionian Islands Region, too. For the five which I have told you, there will be - already before - a new invitation, within the days, by the end of the month with a reduction in the basis for the remaining appropriations, for those that have not received them. We are trying as much as possible to help these regions to renew the rural area. For the six regions, where the total budget for requests actually goes beyond what we said? You know which regions are: Central Macedonia, Western Macedonia, Eastern Macedonia and Thrace, with intense agricultural activity, Thessaly, Western Greece and Crete. Approximately three thousand percent of the fifty are the perpetrators. For them, therefore, the amount that will be deducted from the new notice for the five previous regions will be used. We'll get a sum if he's left over. From what it looks like, it's gonna run out of hand. You also know that we have the overcompensation of 10%, the EUR 24 million, because this is what is provided for in the rural development programme management system for this measure. Furthermore, if we need to be overcompensated and then in other programmes, especially for young farmers, in the improvement plans that we are already in - they have been pre-published and we are going to go to the notice - and in the LEADER, so that we can cover as much of what is really going on in the rural area as possible. So don't wait for me at this time to tell you numbers, for the simple reason that this amount has not been formulated. For us, then, the aim is to cover as many people as possible. And I told you before, particularly by mentioning the results of the previous rural development programmes, that what you all see is if young farmers joined if they took the money. What happens next in the second year, if the farmers have been permanently left in the rural area, you are not interested. This is mainly what we are interested in and in that direction we are moving. That is why I insist that we try in addition to additional criteria for young farmers in the measures which will be called for to be able to keep them. Because you know, enthusiasm one to two years lasts. In the third year the need for a sustainable income begins to appear. So, then, do we have the conditions to ensure that? That is what we are talking about and through this process that we are discussing the integration of young farmers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u40	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. Mrs. Arabatzis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u41	Mr Minister, you said that you had the absolute understanding of the Committee of the Regions and were aware of their decisions on the distribution of the funds you made in the regions. This is the first time that the programmes had to be allocated to the regions on the basis of the definitions of the new CAP and for the first time you had to do so, and that is why you screwed up. Then, Minister, why are the Regional Director of Central Macedonia, Mr Agathastos and the Regional Director of Western Greece asking you to lift the injustices and exclusions of farmers who have many molecules and are excluded while entering with much less molecules in other regions? Why do they make these appeals with these letters if they were in their absolute agreement, as you say? You said then that you sought 12 000 farmers first for the programme. Then why did you say about twenty-four thousand young farmers from Larissa? Why did you say twenty-four when you started, you say, twelve? You also say that you will reduce the base. In other words, Mr Minister, you say what the honourable Member has said to you that by force, it saves good people with fewer molecules you will have them become farmers, because you have made the wrong allocation of funds in the regions. Congratulations, Minister! You are also saying that your aim is to stay farmers in the agricultural profession because, as you argued in previous programmes in the three years, farmers left the profession. Really, Minister? You have achieved a development measure after almost three years that you are running with hard work and tormenting to proclaim and instead of building, you are tearing down. I'll answer you why you're tearing down, Minister. You are declining because the limit of ten years for young farmers, which was in the previous programme, you and your own decision have brought it down to three years, thereby undermining the age-long renewal of the agricultural population and, of course, undermining the conscious stay of farmers in the agricultural profession. You did what you are now supposed to be coming and complaining about. And why did you do that? Because you are drowsy by the well-known populist, voterial and subsidized policy. The policy of young farmers as an allowance to all and arrogant glue, you have actually seen it, Minister, which is why you have put all three years instead of the ten years and you exclude people who really want to root in the profession and give a horizontally-private policy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll need one more minute, Minister, with your tolerance. And since you have, of course, made these divisions, you come now and tell us about the overcompensation. And why is it not that overcompensation, Minister, of 10%, which is not a solution, but is that you are trying to gold out the pill with these twenty million extras? Why isn't he moving on? It does not go any further because the information system of state aid, that is, the platform, does not work since the assessments of objections have to be carried out, which three months have not now been dealt with. And hostages, as you can see, remain the potential young farmers and the rejected who are awaiting the results of the objections and, of course, the perpetrators. Not to mention all the programmes under the second pillar, which, due to the failure to operate the online platform in 2017, are not being announced. What can I say? For the improvement plans for which you are proud, which is still in pre-publishment today? For the producer groups that are pre-published? The processing that you have given four extensions, Minister, and you invite people and people to resubmit when the candidates have passed the budget four times? Why? To be the fiasco of organic farming?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to complete the debate, and Mr Georgiodas will be added to it. We must not abuse time by our colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u43	I shall conclude, Mr President. Of course, even if you solve the problem of electronic platforms, Mr Minister, I would like an answer. You said you couldn't say numbers. How many will you finally join? Here on 25-9 you are essentially bound by a written reply only to Western Macedonia. In the House you spoke orally about one third of the participants. In Crete on 21 September you spoke of thirteen and fourteen thousand overall beneficiaries, at the same time as you told us that half of Crete would go in. Finally we ask again: When, how many, and with what money, Minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u44	Thank you very much. I leave time and it runs, Mr. Georganta, to make you some sense of humor. You have less than a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, things are so simple, I think everyone can understand. In an irrational way, in our view, you have decided on the criteria whereby the allocation of appropriations by region for young farmers will be carried out. You say, with the consent of the regions. I see letters from Mr. Tzikostas and Mr. Fani Pappa, the Vice-President of Central Macedonia, since January 2017, who told you that, in the way in which you seek this and move on, they will certainly find farmers in Central Macedonia outside this programme. In any case, although the criteria are irrational to us, you do so. It's ending the first phase. Central Macedonia, which participates in the gross agricultural product with 26.8%, takes 18% after all of the sums for young farmers. It's ending the first phase. We see that there is no interest in five regions, that there are no applications, that is not the direction, for many reasons. There are other guidelines, there are other possibilities, there are other opportunities, there are other jobs. So in these regions, where we also had reduced moleculosis, are you coming now and what are you telling us? "I will make a second invitation, I will reduce the basis, I will wait to see if anyone can maintain an application and you farmers in Central Macedonia, you farmers in Thessaly, who have been interested, who have all the molecules and meet all the conditions, wait to see what will happen, let us convince anyone to apply to Attica. If no one is convinced, then we will transfer this balance to Central Macedonia and in 2019 you may join. Until then, wait. Stay, on the basis of your commitments and your obligations, standard, so that you do not end up with them, and have the possibilities and criteria that must be met and wait to see when to do what." I do not think it is a serious question of this such a big issue, which is not just a question of unemployment. It is about young people who want to become young farmers. They want to go to the district to stay, go to the deserted, villages and engage in this activity. I think you are due to these young people directly, clearly, to finish this matter. There's no problem with any territory in the country. It's just the interests are specific, they're manifested. You are obliged in the second phase to make a package, and where there really is demand, where there is a need, where this orientation exists, to give more people the opportunity to do so over time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u46	Thank you very much, Mr Georgioda, and for understanding. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u47	I mentioned a timeline in my prototype. At the same time I told you how we manage the AAS and I would like to repeat it once again. You know that 37.4% of the resources of the Rural Development Programme have been allocated to the regions. This is what we have decided as politicians, with the main direction that we want decentralisation by self-government. In particular, we want regional selfgovernment to have an essential role in these matters, because we believe that, as we know, regional administration is well aware of rural areas. After all, it is its territory. So, based on this initial understanding, we made a distribution. We put in a few criteria. I have not heard from you whether you are questioning the criteria we have set or not that we have taken seriously into account what had been done in the previous programme. So we have come to the conclusion that in these five regions you deliberately want to mislead. There are also regions which have a great need for young farmers to enter. I mean, for example, the Epirus Region. Do not tell me that after the West Macedonia region, which has the first unemployment rate, the Epirus region, which has many problems, especially since there is an interest in the rural area and a specific activity, and that we must not take it seriously. So we cannot, of course, make selective. So, for the five we'll be proclaiming. To tell you right now, that is to say, what will be the result, no. Stay away from us. These procedures will be carried out, which must be done. It's just that there's going to be an excess of that amount. So this plus overcompensation, we'll see how many they'll cover. We, of course, aim to cover a large part - I do not want to say numbers - of the participants. You don't want to understand what I'm saying. And in future we will see, there will be an overcompensation of this, which will be directed at these young farmers who want to enter. So whether all these farmers are included in the whole of them or not, our goal is to integrate them through different approaches. We don't have time to do more analysis. And because you have specifically referred to the information system, I will tell you that you are partly right, because there is one problem. Starting, basically, to incorporate all procedures into an information system which, once it has been completed, we believe, is a matter of days for it to enter into normality - it will not be possible to question it to a minimum. And that's our target. As regards the measures and what has been announced now, because you are constantly repeating them, I have to say the following: to date more than 31% of the programme has been announced. We have, at the same time, misguided commitments that we are walking on. Basically, at this time, over 55% of the programme has already been committed and 23% have been absorbed and you are constantly shouting 'do not walk', 'do not do'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u48	It's pre-published.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u49	I don't have time to say in detail. What you need to know is that the performances we have both in notices and in absorptions have nothing to do with those of the previous three years. We will serve the rural area and you know it, the region, which is currently experiencing, especially at regional conferences, a government that goes to the farmers, discusses, hears their proposals and makes decisions. This is our basic tool. And you should know that the rural area will really be the tool for the country's productive reconstruction. It's not because we say so. It's because he has huge potential. From there on, we all have to support him.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u50	Thank you very much, Minister. We move on to the second with number 208/31-10-2017, a topical question by the MP of Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece. Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Building a dam in the widest Prefecture of Rethymnon, a water transfer pipeline in Messara and a irrigation network in the Platis Amari Prefecture of Rethymnon". Please, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, water resources are seen as a prerequisite for the development of agricultural production, of all forms of activity in the countryside and for maintaining ecological equilibrium. The construction of the river Platymos dam or Ligiotis, as it is called, as well as the water transport pipeline in the plain of Messara and the irrigation network in the Platymos Municipality of Amari, makes it possible to save, hence more than 30 million cubic meters of water per year and many problems are solved for the inhabitants of the Messaras and the southern Rethymno, instead of water, floods and winters, to be led to the sea. To tell you only about Crete as a whole, of course, to see the scale of the problem. Renewable reserves of underground waters of Crete are estimated at about three billion cubic metres per year, while the total water used does not exceed 15% of them. It's even less. Of course, if you want, we'll talk about it more. The discussions on the Platy River had begun since the beginning of the 1990s, perhaps earlier. The study of the project was commissioned to the Ministry of Rural Development, after constant efforts and struggles of the local residents, and until now, which is ready for tender and despite the promises of funding, the implementation of the project is slow. In fact, the project is not included in the forecasts of the approved regional planning framework of the Region of Crete and, in addition, I think it is worth noting that the Community directive - which was harmonized by Greek legislation in 2003 - prioritises the savings of water demand, in contrast to the maximisation of supply to each aqueduct, as provided for by the anti-grassed common agricultural policy. The use of this important water resource will, however, solve irrigation problems in the south of Rethymnon and will in the long term solve the water deficit in the Messara plain, by supplementing the reservoir of the Fauna - which, now that we are talking about is 'Sakhara', i.e. there is no drama of water in the dam, because of prolonged drought and anomobia - so that these measures can be taken so that agricultural production can be supported. So we ask you, Minister: What measures do you intend to take to finance the construction of the Platy River diversion project, which will increase the availability of water resources in the southern Rethymnon and the Messara plain and what is the timetable for the completion and operation of the Frame in Platy prefecture of Rethymno? Not at all, but because you said you were close to the farmer before. It became your regional conference in Crete, the Prime Minister had also come down to Messara. He said that with a positive eye the government sees this work. So give clear answers here and now about when this work will be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u52	Thank you very much, my colleague. Mr Evangelos Apostolos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u53	Mr Colleague, we cannot talk about here and now when procedures are going on. As you can see, it's not a two-two project. We need to look at the whole of all the enhancement projects, to make a statement. But I want to tell you, about this Dam in Platy Rethymnon, that the study after the transport pipeline and the irrigation network were integrated into a measure of the Agricultural Development Programme 2007-2013. The study was not completed by decision of June 2016 of the Secretary-General of Community Resources continues and joined the relevant measure of the Agricultural Development Programme 2014-2020, increasing the budget - I mean for the study - to the 850 000 euros. So far, the 700 thousand have been absorbed. The studies have been completed and they are still being repaid. As far as the construction of this project is concerned, we are entering another process. This study must be submitted. And, of course, this study, with the criteria that exist for the integration of these projects, when the relevant notice - I will tell you below - will be assessed if it comes into the 2014-2020 programming period. I want to tell you two things that you need to keep in mind. One is that there is a complementarity criterion for those who have started the previous programming period and are submitted to the new programming period. This complementarity criterion will be taken into account, which means that it will have more to do with regard to the others that have now been tabled without having to do with the previous President. I know you disagree, but it's no different. For the part of the improvement works, there is a heresy on the part of the Programme for Rural Development, on the part of the Common Agricultural Policy - say it - which says very simply: "You will not declare any of these measures unless you serve this heresy, that there must be relevant studies in all the water basins showing that we have been studying how the management is to be done and the second is that you must proceed with water invoicing". That's what they call this process. As far as water pricing is concerned, there has already been a consensus that, on our side, we will have to deal with in five years the issue of water-metering in all drillings. I think it is an issue that since we want a proper management in the waters if it is not accompanied by the installation of these meters, we will have a problem. So there we agreed, of course, if they are installed, then - I repeat it so that there is no misunderstanding - that the invoicing of water will be discussed, whether the charge is imposed or whether it is not imposed. There is no such matter today. Inside this process, at some point, after five years, the leadership that will be then will decide on specific criteria whether it strengthens or does not strengthen the rural area. The other part relating to the management of water basins is being re-established at this time, and it is an obligation that the Ministry of the Environment will submit to the European Commission. If this procedure is completed, then we are free to declare the specific measures and the procedures that I have told you if the request is made. If it is judged by the assessment that it can be integrated, then the way for this project opens.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u54	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Synhronakis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u55	What do you understand? "Allow me May to eat a clover"! It was so dazzling, not just your thought but your programming, which we very much fear that, not only the 2007-2013 programming period, was finally air words, but also the new programming period 2014-2020, for this dam and for many other dams, will end up in the same way. How many years do it take to make a dam to cover basic, basic needs of a rural area, a campus, with the accompanying land improvement projects that need to be done, while at the same time there are some other 'fraonic' projects, such as the Apostlemi dam, a over-cost of work, which has proved to be not doing? And we see that a dam that is required for decades of a particular region to breathe passes through a thousand waves and is not going to happen after all. It's here and now it's really here and now. For the previous governments, like yours, have given a lot of money. That is how you give a lot of 'will'. You are therefore putting forward a problem which must now be solved in the future. And we are very afraid that this will have the same fate as many other projects. We believe that the Messara farmers will not benefit from this suffocating policy of the European Union, the common agricultural policy, with the heresy which you yourself accept, with your commitments to the European Union and knowing very well that the European Union does not finance projects such as dams, flooding, earthquakes, etc., which have to do with people's lives. While all this is happening and there is a need for all of these projects, we notice that you are giving simple €2.5 billion for F-16, building a private airport in Kastelli, at Messara's place, east, of course, but that will affect the whole place of Messara and destroy people and build biomass combustion plants, which will spread across Messara and around Greece and overthrow all the uses of land and, of course, destroy the environment and contaminate the water wealth. The construction of the dam is one of the projects which could contribute to the overall development of the region, but also of the country and, indeed, is an economic solution. It could, for example, resolve the aqueous deficit of such an important plain - take care - by producing over-purpose vegetable products, i.e. dynamic crops. It will solve the problem of over-use of the underground catchment area of the campus of Messara. It will contribute to the development of the country's domestic production potential, to the increase of agricultural income, to the provision of food needs with cheap and quality products, to the processing of agricultural products, to tourism in the southern part of Heraklion, to the southern sea: Agia Galini, Matala, Kalamaki, Kalamaki, Good Ports, Kalymari, Pitsidia. I mean, it's going to give the area a total uplift. Of course, one will say: 'Is it enough for a dam to solve all this?' On his own, no. He's gonna breathe, and that's why we're here, and that's why we asked the timely question. We, however, raise another issue, Minister, because the capitalist development path, which you have chosen and described as fair growth, actually leads to the dismantling of small and medium-sized farms and contributes greatly to the fact that these are not really eligible projects, such as dams and improvement works, because that is what this is about. We propose a different path, and in this case, the construction of the dam will give a breath to the income, to stay the households in their place, to build infrastructure. But another authority is needed. Indeed, the means of production and the land need to become social property, with a central economic planning, so that the needs can be met, that there can be dams and yams, that can be improved projects, whatever the people need here anyway. But what is required is for the people to take the case into their hands and question these policies that cut their lives and their own children, their families. In any case, however, Minister, it is not a form of speech here and now. Here and now it means giving a clear answer to the people of the region, because the limits have now reached such a level that they can no longer expect when, if and as long as European conditions and the common agricultural policy allow. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr. Synchronous. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theory, after taking part in the Educational Programme "The Workshop of the Republic" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-four students and students and two educational attendants from the 23rd Keratsini Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u57	Colleague, and the upgrading of the F-16 we need and the biomass plants we need and the land uses we need. The point is that we are talking here about the rural area and this sum, about 5.6 billion, which is planned to be reversed by the Rural Development Programme, is essentially the only instrument we have to implement these policies that you and we want. The question is: Are we using these? Of course, we're using them. If you don't want to use them, it's another logic to look for how etc. We therefore have this specific money and say very simply that since they have been managed by specific regulations, we are reacting to the regulations, such as, for example, I told you now about the heresy that caused a great problem - but that is the decision. Otherwise, we cannot manage them. Because, in fact, you said that this particular project would breathe, so even though the project was effectively abandoned, as I told you, in June 2016, by decision of the Secretary, it joined the 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme. There is also a complementarity criterion, as I have told you it will be taken into account if it is submitted. I am not sure whether or not it has been proposed by the region, it is a matter of that. The question, however, is that we, if we join, - and with the criteria that we have to set ourselves, do not otherwise - will try to join. Now, because you've put a lot of other issues into it, I want to make this clear. You saw before that we had a debate and all the debates have a point of reference for the CFP, the programme, when we will get the aid, when we will get the specific links. So what are we going to do in this case? We're on our way, trying to handle them as best as possible. For example, there was a reaction when the basic aid was paid, because some saw it falling by 4% and 5%, compared to last year. Yes, it has been reduced for the simple reason that we made an intervention, which we took by 4.5% to 5%, and we took it either to the young farmers, whom we would like to include, in order to move forward, or to the related aid, because we want to strengthen farmland, to strengthen the other particular product in the context of the policy that we want. So since we are given this possibility, then we put our own seal. If we cannot be given, we cannot and cannot follow the regulations imposed by the common agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u58	Thank you very much, Minister. We will proceed to the fourth with number 209/31-10-2017, a timely question for the first cycle of the Member of the Communist Party of Greece, Stavros Tassos, on the subject of "Measure on the cases of smallpox in herds of sheep and goats in Lesvos". Mr Stavros Tassos has the floor for two minutes for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you know the situation in Lesvos. He's been declared in an emergency. And, of course, the concern of the breeders of Lesbos, and especially of the areas of Mandamadou, Agia Paraskevi, and now Impression, is great after the unscathed cases of blessing that are currently reaping their herds. From the information, I have been informed that over two and a half thousand animals have been killed so far. So the losses are large and are of course afflicted by the small and medium-sized farmers who, instead of supporting them with substantial measures, are advising on how each individual will manage the issue by threatening them, in fact, that if they do not comply, they will have to deal with concrete fines, at the same time accusing them of hiding their herd from being killed. The Ministry and the region are in the role of Pontius Pilate. They have not complied with any of their obligations to control and limit the disease, such as a moratorium on disinfection, animal killing and animal burial. Under their responsibility, the competent veterinary service of Lesbos is subordinated to four essentially only veterinarians, while the Agency provides for thirteen. A few years ago, twelve permanent veterinarians were serving. The result is that few veterinary checks are carried out and farmers are forced to pay for them in their pockets - and it is unknown whether and when they will get their money back - as is the total cost of killing and managing the herd. At the same time, while crushing the tax burden and the other measures that apply to the entire Greek people, producers are forced to pay more than EUR 500 to kill a herd of up to a hundred and fifty sheep, and it is also unknown what will happen if a producer cannot make available this money. In addition, the amount foreseen under the legislation in force for the compensation of herds is well below the full cost of reconstituting the livestock holdings and the loss in livestock capital and production, in which the livestock farmer whose herd is ill cannot put a new herd unless six months have elapsed. Despite the constant cases of blessing on the island in recent years and despite the warnings and suggestions from the 20-02-2017 of the Ministry of Veterinary Services responsible for increasing surveillance, no measures have been taken to protect against the disease and, above all, the veterinarians necessary for this purpose. The agricultural and livestock associations of Lesvos have therefore set a number of requests including: The immediate payment of all costs they have paid for the implementation of the eradication programme, the full compensation based on livestock and the exceptional subsidy for the purchase of feed, the freezing, the debts of the banks affected and the tax, their exemption from HNVA, the income tax, their registration as ‘employers’ in their insurance institution. For what will these people do for six months when they are not able to put a new herd, if their herd is ill? Furthermore, applicants for state veterinary services and in particular the central veterinary service, for the reopening of the Mandamadian veterinary centre, and for the other six veterinary centres - that is, seven out of the total - that were in operation before. Now there are only three left and basically none of them are working. And when I say about three veterinary centres, I mean in three areas, in Mandamando, in Horsepeios and in Callonis. They have also demanded the free guarantee of the necessary infrastructures for the eradication of the disease by the state, of protection measures at the entrance gates of the island, of feed control, of consumer information by scientists in charge. So we ask you what you are going to do to implement these fair demands and also to prevent the disease from spreading and avoiding phenomena in the future.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u60	Thank you very much, Mr Tassos. Minister, please, you have the floor for your prototype for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u61	Mr Colleague, I share your anxiety and your concern. I will reply in principle to the great question of staffing the veterinary services and, of course, compensation, so that you can place yourself in your second language and then say what other measures we are taking. For the administration of veterinary services, we have secured funding from the European Commission for the implementation of a surveillance programme for four diseases, which are foot-and-mouth disease, follicular bovine dermatitis, pain in small ruminants and blessing. Of course, our main aim is - and this is why the European Union is funding - to safeguard the borders of the European Union from the outbreak of new epizootic diseases. This programme is therefore intended to strengthen the veterinary services of Lesvos - certainly through the Northern Aegean Region - by recruiting five veterinarians. In addition, in April 2017, the Ministry of Interior approved 10 positions in the northern Aegean with specialities that the region itself can define. Recently, of course, and you know that, we have immediately moved two officials from the Lesvos Department to the Veterinary Directorate, so that we can help with the burden that actually exists. I would like to tell you that we have these possibilities. You know the commitments we have. Special needs in veterinarians are our priority. I've said how many times I'm not going to agree to recruitment at the Ministry if we don't start with the veterinarians, because it's a huge problem. Of course, with regard to the compensation of farmers - and we mean those who, because of the blessing, have been forced to kill the population - a Ministerial decision has been adopted to approve a financial aid programme for 2017 as well. I say this because the owners of ovine and caprine animals who had been forced to kill in 2016 and 2017 have already received compensation. In fact, for what we have up to 7-9-2017 there is a ministerial decision to cover these too. He's at the Finance Department right now. Furthermore, the same joint ministerial decision will provide for 100% of all operationally justified expenditure incurred in order to deal with this situation in order to take the epizootic measures. Eligible costs include compensation costs for farmers who are forced to carry out such procedures, costs for the disposal of slaughtered animals, for products in specific processing plants. I mean, I want to tell you that in these procedures, whatever big problem there is, it's covered. But I want to make two things clear. The first is that there is no possibility that aid to those who have suffered these effects will be affected. There is already a ministerial decision - it is to be signed at this time - that in cases of force majeure - one euro will, as this is the case, not be subject to compensation. Also, because I am telling you that you rightly put the fact that they must be strengthened, you must not forget that last year the EUR 1.5 million that we received as aid from the European Commission to deal with the dairy problem, we decided that they would be directed to the ovine and caprine farmers in the north Aegean. And when we talk about ovine and caprine animals in the northern Aegean, a large part of this 1.5 million was given to the sheep and goat farmers of Lesvos. And I say this because I see - it is not your concern - a number of announcements, particularly from the Qualified Opposition, which, on the one hand, says 'Why didn't you take it, you didn't do that' and on the other hand, says 'Let's keep it a little low, because it has consequences'. So you understand what we are going to do, and we absolutely must take it seriously. These are the allowances and the veterinary surgeons.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u62	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-two students and students and three educational attendances from the 4th Tripolis Municipal School. The House welcomes them. Mr. Tassos, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, if the 'here and now' that my fellow Member put before me applies once to the dam, the 'here and now' applies ten times. Answers must be given here and now for this hot problem! And I should like to refer to the issues you have raised in your reply. You said there's a provision for five veterinarians. When will these five veterinarians be hired? You said you moved two employees. In any case, of course, they are far less than the thirteen anticipated by this body, when ten years ago or less, they were serving twelve permanent veterinarians. Instead of tripling, they tripled, from twelve to four, instead of twelve to become thirty - six, to really meet the needs of an island with four hundred thousand sheep and goats. Now, with regard to compensation, two issues: firstly, although when will be given and secondly, what is the level of this compensation? The amount you give is not even enough to make up for the animals that have been lost. But it's not just animals that are lost. It's their production, it's what they're going to give birth, it's the milk they're producing. That is why farmers are asking for compensation to be made on the basis of production rather than the replacement of an animal, that is to say, EUR 80-90, which should at least be EUR 200 so that what we call 'production-based' can be applied. But you did not answer any other questions at all. What about the freezing of debts in the banks and the tax office, what about the exemption from HNVIA, what about their registration as 'employers'? These people, the livestock farmers, when their herd is destroyed, are killed for good reasons, what will they do for six months that will have no income? They can't even put a new herd on, because that's what has to be done after six months. What these people will do. How will they live? What is going to happen with the immediate measures on the disinfection turbulence? Are they going to be? And if they do, who's going to bear their costs? What about the control of feedingstuffs? Here there is information that various European Union countries are stopping imports of milk, cheese, cheese and fodder products from our country because of this problem. What about this? Here and now, then, we need to give immediate answers to these problems. Here and now! Of course, you are applying a specific policy and we all know what the objective of this particular policy, of the famous common agricultural policy, is: to eliminate small and medium-sized farmers and farmers and support large private business units, and there those who work in them, work under conditions of modern slavery, with 200 and 300 euros, and the rest of the workers in our country, when they find a job, why you give it all to the capital to make the famous investments in the name of competitiveness. This is the growth, which you publish, the famous fair growth, which is, of course, for 1%, while the remaining 99% will pay the bride a lifetime. That's what you want to do. That's why we say that if people don't rise up and take responsibility for themselves, build another society, we'll go from evil to worse.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u64	Thank you very much, my colleague. It's a very interesting question. I, too, have this question come to my attention, if I may, because I do not know the matter, but is it very interesting: All the animals, which are weak and incubate, where are they being buried? Who takes over the way of burying hundreds of animals? I'm interested, too. Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u65	Indeed, the question is serious, primarily because it is an epizootic disease which is very aggressive, has a great deal of contagious and, above all, high invasion. So we really need to see these issues here and now. And that's what we're trying to do. That is why we have launched an emergency plan. The region, local government - I say this from here, I do not know whether it has done so - can declare the region in an emergency, which means that if the procedures are opened, some of the issues that you have said about obligations, debts to the public, etc., can come through a process of displacement, addressing this problem. But it is not ours, and you realise that to where we can, we will simply advise the world, which really has a problem. However, we need to know that, particularly in such epizootic diseases, we need to work together all - it is not just veterinary services, local administration, port and police authorities - to be able to monitor and prevent exports, movement of animals, which is not allowed from the time such an epizootic disease is under way. I say this because you said before that it is forbidden. That's it. The European Union, when there are such epizootic diseases, prohibits moving and taking strict measures. And that is where you and we are aware that there are other problems of an economic nature. It is not that we have lost our population, that is, it has been killed, where there will be compensation there, but there is the big issue of losing income. But I want to be honest. When I told you earlier that we were able to give EUR 1.5 million last year with very hard justification, I cannot at this time tell you something if there has been no assessment of the loss. We'll see all this on the way. It's no different. So the question right now is to try as much as possible to limit the spread of this disease. From there on, then, we - as I have told you, we have lasting meetings and we are working with the local government and with the region - will try as much as possible to do what I have told you at the beginning, namely to help as much as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u66	The third, with number 157/26-10-2017, timely question from the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Incomplete even after the deadline for delivery the School of Archangelos Rhodes", will not be discussed as a result of the failure of the honourable Member. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-02-S1-commons.u67	With the agreement of the House at 11.28 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday 3 November 2017, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
