ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the agenda of the legislative work, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Thursday, 9 November 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 239/6-11-2017 topical question of the Member of the Republic of Attica, Mr Mavroudi Voridis, to the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, on the subject: 'A call for positions of directors-general'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 213/1-11-2017 by V Vice President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese Republican Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Transport and Infrastructure, on the subject: "Incomplete even after the deadline for delivery, the School of Archangelos Rhodes". 3. The current question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the acute problems encountered by students in public IEK with the opening of their schools. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 240/6-112017 topical question by the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: “Direct restoration of damage to port installations for the cruise in Kos”. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The number 216/3-11-2017 topical question by MP Drama of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARMAR Kefalidou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "The risk of a museum and archaeological site of Delphi". 3. The Question No 251/7-11-2017 by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, related to workers at the European Press Distribution Agency. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 100/4-10-2017 of the First Vice-President of Parliament and Member of the Greek Parliament, Nikita Kaklamanis, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on 'Double and Triple Pensions Number in the country'. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Preparation of the strengthened Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Kazakhstan, of the other part’. The draft was adopted by a majority in the Standing Committee. It is introduced to the House in accordance with the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of this agreement. Does a colleague want to take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u2	I, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u3	Please, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we oppose this agreement because it has nothing to do with the interests of both the peoples of the European Union and Kazakhstan. After all, the European Union is no lamb or no union among the peoples of Europe. It is an association of monopolies and its aim is to defend the interests of its own business groups. Of course, Kazakhstan's urban order also believes that, through such agreements, it can ensure better - not only with the European Union but also with other imperialist countries, such as Russia or the United States of America - its own interests. So not only do the peoples of Kazakhstan and the European Union have an interest, but they will continue to bleed to ensure the profitability of business groups on either side. What are you responding to, Minister, on this issue that we are putting in? I read from the Minutes the debate in committee. You say: "Since capitalist economies exist on either side, obviously a deepening of capitalist relations serve similar conditions." Well, that's all right. In other words, you can confirm in one way, what we say to you and continue: 'But in future, in other production relations, it will serve the peoples of the regions.' With other relationships in the future! What do you say, Minister? Obviously you know that the development of productive forces is not spontaneously carried out outside productive relations. Simply - for the world that listens to us the most - capitalism is developing - this system, that is, the capitalist - the productive forces, to serve the main purpose, namely the profitability of business groups. That is why it develops productive powers and productive relations are developed in relation to the development of productive forces. They're not independent of them. So the direction in which the development of productive forces in the system we are living in is to ensure the profitability of business groups and as long as your political bosses are in power, namely business groups, monopolies, deepening and developing these economic relations will take place on the basis of the exploitation of workers. So there's no other basis. That is the basis you support. What is your role, in other words, how do you actually support this basis today? You cover with a philosophical cloak all I told you before, i.e. the choices of big capital, in simple terms, the increase in profitability. Didn't you do the same with the insurance law? Weren't you the ones who said that you weren't going to reduce pensions? And today you have caused - and I think you are aware - the anger of both retired and self-employed workers. In short, now you are going to tell us that the choices made by the European Union, that is to say, its business groups through this Kazakhstan agreement, are, in the future, of a progressive, positive nature. You say this at a time when competition in the region is exacerbating between the various imperialist forces. In this context, the European Union does not want imperialist opposition under any circumstances to be at a disadvantage, and that is why it promotes such agreements. We are talking about huge interests in this region. In other words, the European Union takes into account the strategic importance of Kazakhstan in the region, the role it plays on various issues either in security or in negotiations on Syria, Iran, Iraq and so on, and wants to strengthen its own role in Central Asia. Is that all we say? Are they just estimates of the Communist Party of Greece? For a moment - you have of course read it - the explanatory statement to the agreement itself. Since the European Union itself appreciates the high level of investment and trade, the strategic importance of Kazakhstan, clearly states the objectives of this agreement, which are not others, than the country commits itself to a specific framework of economic and investment policy. As the report itself says, there will be significant benefits for European Union businesses through this agreement. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One minute, Mr President, your tolerance. So what does the minutes provide for? The agreement provides, in particular, for the speeding up of the liberalisation of the Kazakhstan market. Restructuring to facilitate the penetration of European business groups. The promotion of privatization in Kazakhstan. Public procurement is awarded to companies in the European Union and to companies in general. Operation of public administration to assist investors. These are through the explanatory statement. Also measures to check Kazakhstan's compliance with this agreement. Finally, you say that through this agreement, the interests of our country are guaranteed, the Greek interests are guaranteed. But what interests, Minister? From participation, for example, in public tenders for various projects in Kazakhstan, who will benefit? The construction companies that will take these projects or the workers? Obviously the construction companies. That's all the fuss is about. There is also a number of other issues that, due to a lack of time, I do not have time to develop. For all these reasons, therefore, we are voting against this agreement. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, too. Mr. Theocharopoulos, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u6	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are taking up the enhanced partnership for cooperation between the European Union and Kazakhstan signed in 2015 and put into effect on 1 May 2016. The European Union Strategy for Central Asia aims to achieve stability and prosperity in the region. Kazakhstan is the only country in the region that maintains trade relations with the European Union. It is a country that has worked very hard to develop its economy. It is obviously no coincidence that he managed to reach the 20th place between a hundred and eighty countries in competitiveness and forty - four out of a hundred twenty - two in the field of education. But the most important thing he has is his investment laws. This country, Mr Katrugale, has the lowest taxes in the region and I will talk to our country next. Another characteristic of the country is that it has managed to maintain good relations with both the European Union and Russia. That is why, according to the European Commission, Kazakhstan is a living proof that there may be good relations with both the European Union and Russia. But beyond these economic achievements and according to the Human Rights Watch, Kazakhstan continues to restrict freedom of speech, press and religion to a large extent. In other words, there are serious problems. The enhanced agreement provides for arrangements for cooperation in areas such as health, the environment and climate change. It covers legislative cooperation, rule of law, black money laundering and much more. We therefore have an enhanced agreement, which promotes the European Union's economic and political engagement in the region, an agreement that further promotes the interests of the countries that have already been investment in Kazakhstan and could potentially benefit our country. In this context, of course, the Democratic Reconciliation will vote for the ratification of this enhanced cooperation. At the same time, however, we believe - and we would like to stress this - that the financial partners in Kazakhstan must make greater efforts to ensure that the Government takes immediate action on the issue of labour relations and on human rights. This enhanced partnership agreement should be hoped that it will actually work on the issue of human rights and labour relations, which in theory involves and where there are problems in the country. Minister, I will very quickly mention a matter of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in relation to the issue of Turkey, in which we constantly see the strengthening of the challenges on the Turkish side. On this issue, and in relations with the European Union, the government must have a clear position. The position of the Democratic Alliance is that Turkey's road to Europe should not be closed, that there should be strict warnings for Turkey, for democratic conquests considered in the European Union, but also for problems with neighbouring countries such as our country. The road should remain open to facilitate pro-European forces in Turkey. Nationalists should not be facilitated on either side. Any other development will push Turkey into isolation, and this will be outside our interests and our country. Finally, Mr President, there is a very serious issue that arose yesterday concerning the functioning of the House and the independent authorities. I'm talking about the House's Budget Office. The President of Parliament and the Minister of Finance of the Government do not, as it seems, accept the real situation of the Greek economy presented in the report of the Bureau of the Parliament. Mr Minister, this is also a matter for you, because you know very well what the economy is all about. They're talking about mistakes and creating communication impressions. Let me mention some evidence, what does the report say? ‘There is a significant spread of flexible forms of employment. The proportion of self-employed part-time workers is high and their gross earnings are EUR 394’. Is that a mistake? "The deterioration of the standard of living, the compression of income, the zero prospects of careers and the steadfast wages lead with certainty to poverty". "Without serious debt relief Greece will go bankrupt". Didn't you say that about public debt that it needs serious restructuring? Are you now accusing the Parliament's Budget Office of saying so? ‘Is the tax austerity still continuing in the preliminary draft 2018 budget’ and even worse? ‘The ratio of indirect taxes to direct taxes is increased in 2017 for the first time after seven years’. That's what she's talking about. Mr Tsakalots, of all this, referred to the interest element that, instead of EUR 84 billion - as he says - is EUR 64 billion. With this logic of Mr Tsakalotou, the public debt does not want restructuring? Let us therefore once again point out to the governors and, above all, to the President of Parliament, that the Budget Office is not a party to the government. It's an independent authority. That seems to be annoying. Mr President, because the former spokesman for the previous government, the New Democracy, is here, I can tell you that the same problems were with the Budget Office in the previous government and was disturbing, Mr Kedicoglou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u7	That's not how we reacted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u8	But it has never been stopped or threatened to cease.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u9	Finish, Mr. Theocharopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u10	I shall conclude, Mr President, with the same tolerance as the previous speaker. So that seems to be annoying the government. Not only can the government take criticism from us, from the opposition parties, but also from the independent authorities of the state. What is probably annoying at the end, Minister, is that the quarterly report refers in particular to the employment relationships that are being violated and to the logic of taxation, the tax austerity and the indirect taxes that are neither left nor progressive policy. What we want is to strengthen the independent authorities and not undermine them. You must take a position on this, too, because it concerns you, because it has dealt with these issues. What we need to do is to listen to the independent authorities and not every time - as New Democracy has previously done and to a greater extent, as we see, SYRIZA - to undermine them. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u11	However, the professor recognized that he used inappropriate evidence. I mention it because it's serious. I'm talking about the House's Budget Office. I have to say this because you have referred to the President of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u12	The President of Parliament's Budget Office yesterday made a statement. I mentioned the EUR 84 billion in relation to the EUR 64 billion, which does not change the whole issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u13	I referred to self-criticism...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u14	Let me say one more thing. The Parliamentary Budget Office consists of executives of scientific status, proposed by SYRIZA from New Democracy by PASOK and DIMMAR.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u15	Please, Mr. Theocharopoulos, what you were to say, you said it from the Step of the House. I took note of the Professor's self-criticism statement from the Budget Office of the House, and that is serious. Mr. Kouzilos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President. Today we are discussing the ratification of an enhanced Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Kazakhstan. It is a theoretical and formal relationship between the European Union and Kazakhstan, with specific framework agreements on issues such as trade development, security, economic issues, environmental protection, migration, tourism, etc. This is where too many questions are born: Kazakhstan belongs to the Eurasian Union. The European Union is trying through its geopolitical theory to make it a satellite. As we have said to you in committee, the benefit will be those of the so-called South, namely Germany and its satellites and the loser will be the South again. The European Union is trying to penetrate all over the former Eastern bloc in places such as Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan and various other countries, with the result that we, unfortunately, as a member of the European Union, are faced with serious problems such as the last event, yesterday, where we will not be taking part in a summit in Russia, because we accept the sanctions of the European Union and because they will be represented by Crimea. Russia, however, through Kazakhstan and through its offshores it will make trade with Germany. That's why he wants these partnerships. The question is what we're doing. So they're going to leave agricultural products, hurt Greek producers, get them for free, go through the Germans to Kazakhstan and Kazakhstan to Russia? That's the flow of money, and that's how it goes. For Germany, it's all money. The loser will be Greece again. We have told you in committee, and we are telling you now. We are therefore voting against this sanction. We would also like an answer to why you did not agree to go. Why did three Greek ministers not agree to go to Russia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u17	So do we. Mr. Loverdos has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. I take the floor, having fully expressed what Mr Theocharopoulos said, to raise two issues of your competence. After all, the Rules of Procedure enable us, as representatives of the parliamentary groups, to speak. I am comparing my voice with Turkey, with what Mr Theocharopoulos said, which I do not think deviate from the central line of our foreign policy. But I have yesterday's statements and the Turkish President's speech in front of me and on this occasion I would like to make the following reference to the Greek Parliament: In what President Erdogan said yesterday in his speech, he told and supported the Turkish invasion of Cyprus and the occupation since then. The European leaders who are listening to him must now have fully understood that, if not Turkey, however, President Erdogan is constantly deviating from the political path that the European Union has to respect national popular sovereignty and all kinds of rights. I believe that there is no more specific example for the leaders of the European Union, in relation to how President Erdogan perceives Europe, international relations, people's sovereignty, national sovereignty, there is no more typical example of his divergence from values, the principles of the West and Western civilization, the European Union first of all from yesterday's barbaric speech. The second point I would like to make is this: it has nothing to do with its day-to-day aspect with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but it has to do with the policy we are pursuing in relation to the Arab world, the Gulf countries and, in particular, Saudi Arabia, Minister. We have a report from a Greek Brigadier, which raises certain issues of the legality of the trade of the Ministry of National Defence in relation to the equipment programs. That's none of your business. It is a matter of parliamentary control. He's practicing. However, the revelations of the Brigadier, appointed by Mr. Kammenos five months ago, are really very unpleasant. We have a transaction, supposedly, with Saudi Arabia, an transnational deal. On behalf of Saudi Arabia, although she is calling for government transactions, there is a Greek mediator who is supposed to represent Saudi Arabia and some evidence submitted by the Ministry of National Defence that is not serious. For you, however, as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, there is a big issue. For what has been distributed between Saudi Arabia and Greece, in relation to a specific armament program and given the organic relationship between foreign policy and defence issues, I ask you, Minister, and if you are kind, take a position. What has been distributed these days shows a quality of relations between Greece and Saudi Arabia very bad. We are supposed to be trading with her and our Embassy in Riyadh, but also the Saudi delegation in Greece, to say that this mediator has nothing to do with it. Does this action, firstly, raise foreign policy issues? And secondly, if all this concerns Yemen, is there a more general problem of foreign policy, Minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u19	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, before the Minister takes the floor, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u21	But, Mr. Pappa,...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u22	As a parliamentary representative, I have the right to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u23	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u24	In order to facilitate the debate that is taking place at the moment, I have to make a contribution to this: because it has already been mentioned by the Turkish President Erdogan, I would like to say that the Turkish President finds it and does it not just now, he has always found it with the previous government. He finds it and he does it! And the problem is not Turkey's problem, it's internal problem. The fateful question is addressed to the Minister, who will not know it - address the Foreign Minister more - is this: Was there an invitation to the Cavusoglu visit to Thrace? Was there an invitation to an official visit? Was the visit official? If it wasn't official, then why didn't the Greek side ban her for security reasons? Why does the Greek side leave room for Turkish separatist propaganda in Thrace? To conclude, Mr President - and you have also objected to giving us the floor - for us, for the Greek nationalists, the solution to defend Thrace at the moment, rather, what will contribute to the armoring of Thrace, is to close this snake agent, close the Turkish Consulate of Komotini with any consequences. We will not stay the Greeks, lift flags and banquets in favour of Turkey's European perspective. Turkey is not a Europe and the Turkish consulate has nothing to do with our Greek Thrace.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u25	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u26	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u27	You have not objected to the ratification of the agreement...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u28	But I beg your pardon, the parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Independence was speaking for five minutes about Mr Kammenos. We don't have the right to place ourselves in this off-site position for the Chief of ANELs?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u29	They were alerted, which is why they were given the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u30	So you're saying we don't have a right. Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u31	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, I shall refer to other issues than the only and most important issue of the debate, which is the ratification of the agreement with Kazakhstan. I must, however, say - and I think that in this climate it was also the position of the Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks - that it is not appropriate to confuse the provisions of the Constitution and of the Rules of Procedure concerning parliamentary control, with those relating to legislative work, because parliamentary scrutiny must be carried out responsibly, not only from the standpoint of opposition but also from the government's ability to give full answers to the issues that require study and information. This is true, if we do not want to see the impressions limited, the exchange of views that we have in the Chamber. I therefore consider not to be responsible for the criticism when it is being exercised outside Parliament's Rules of Procedure, outside the Constitution, outside the debate and partly outside the competence of the Minister who is present. I repeat, because they have been heard and because, above all, the House is a step in the public debate, I will respond. I cannot, however, say that the way in which they were put is, in my opinion, an exception to parliamentary matters. Already because of the fact that the President has said that only those who had opposed the ratification are taking the floor, there are aspects of this House which have not been heard about matters which are of far greater interest than the ratification of the agreement with Kazakhstan. On the subject of ratification, therefore, these are the so-called new types of agreements which the European Union ratifys and promotes with those countries which want to have trade relations and which have the following basic characteristics. It is not only in economic relations but also in matters of wider rights, relations with civil society. The issues raised by Mr Theocharopoulos concerning the rights of Kazakhstan are part of the agreement, for that is precisely the characteristic of this new generation of legislative texts. Kazakhstan, now, as some speakers have mentioned, is one of the countries with close relations with the European Union - the European Union is the key partner - but they also have close relations with Russia. He is therefore a member of the Eurasian Union. From this point of view, it is also in the interest of the people of Kazakhstan and the European Union to conclude closer trade relations, precisely because this promotes not only economic cooperation but also, more generally, political balance in this very sensitive Caucasus area. The previous 1999 trade agreement had already laid the economic basis for the development of trade relations. This new with twenty-nine chapters further promotes these relationships. I now come to the objections that have been raised. On the part of the Communist Party, the main opposition expressed concerns the character of the European Union, and obviously this view of the Communist Party is respected. What I said, and to which I have criticised, is that simple, which you will obviously remember from the first chapters of the communist manifesto. So Marx says the bourgeois class is revolutionizing the production forces, dismantling all the obstacles. Marx talks about the first globalisation, but obviously what he describes applies more to the second one. In short, Marx says that the bourgeois class is developing the power of production to the full and revolutionary extent, but he's like a apprentice, because he can't control after the production relationships that run counter to them. So what I said and which I repeat now is that these procedures of capitalist integration are legislative procedures. They respond to the growth rate of productive forces. Globalization, in short, cannot be put into walls. The main issue, however, is how, with what legal, political mechanisms its direction will be checked. Although it cannot be prevented, it is not a natural phenomenon, but, in itself, it will dismantle labour rights or bring our societies back to the 19th century. I think that this is where the circle of those who had placed the agreement was closed. I will respond to all the issues that have been raised, although in my opinion they have been wrongly raised, as I said at the outset. On the question of the criticism made at the Bureau of the Parliament, it is in no way a question of questioning its independence, which must be an intrinsic feature of its action and its functioning. From there on, however, as the Americans say, everyone, even the Parliamentary Budget Office, has a right to his views, but he has no right to have his own information. The fact that the evidence mentioned was not accurate was not just the subject of criticism by the Minister of Economy, but also - and I think that he is honouring this - a confession from the head of the Parliament's budget office. So what we have done was a good thing for democracy and for the Parliament's Budget Office, for the simple reason that any body more than just an institution such as the Parliament's Budget Office, which must have a high guarantee, is its credibility. When his credibility is affected by the same ones who are obliged to protect it, all the state's institutional actors must try to restore the authority of an institution, precisely to protect it. I consider reference to labour, because if you see Act 6 of 2012, which dismantled labour relations in the country, it is a obvious work of those who criticise us and it is, I think, a feature of the forces of bipartism, that is, the old sins of their own, the dissolution of the country trying to bring them to us, as if the people had no memory. I think, therefore, that those who did the work relationships in Greece should, in fact, be ashamed of us, who are trying to overthrow the dissolution they have brought both individual and collective law, practically the abolition of collective agreements. I shall now turn to the issues of Turkey. It is a constant effort to maintain the European perspective of Turkey, in the interests of the Turkish people, but also in the interests of political stability in the region. This does not, obviously, mean that we are either indifferent to internal developments in Turkey, to those relating to the rule of law, to rights or much more to what we are concerned with, provocative, that is, statements which are of a revision nature or which deplore the violation of the principles of international law. Stability, temperament and rigour towards these challenges are a constant feature of foreign policy over a period of time and a characteristic of our own policy. It does not mean, however, that we should get Turkey out of Europe on a road, because this is essentially contrary to the interests of our own country. We have an interest in a European Turkey and not in a hostile Turkey. Finally, I shall refer to the question raised in order to postpone the Joint Interministerial Committee with Russia. I have to tell you that we have the best relationships with Russia since the past period. The preparation of this joint interministerial committee has been done with a meeting of my own with the co-legislator, Minister for Transport - who is respectively headed by the Russian side of the Joint Ministerial Committee - twice, one in Heraklion and one in Thessaloniki. It has been postponed, but we are working with the Russian embassy and the Russian government to reprogramming it. There is therefore no spot in our relations with Russia, which we want in the context of our more general foreign policy, to be at the highest possible level in recent years. I hope that I have not left anything unanswered by what has been put forward, although in my opinion they have been wrongly put into this process. They should have been placed in the parliamentary control procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u33	Thank you. The debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u34	No, I'm sorry, Mr. President, I'm asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u35	You don't have the floor, Mr. Loverdos!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u36	I have the right to speak under Rule 64 of the Rules of Procedure after a Minister's speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u37	No, you don't have a secondary right!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u38	Don't do that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u39	It's generous in front of you, Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u40	Strangely now it is reducing its generosity, violating the Rules of Procedure and not giving me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u41	I said...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u42	I will put a question to you on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u43	Please very much now!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u44	Don't do that! I now ask you a question on the Rules of Procedure and you will have to give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u45	Don't make me describe your behavior. Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u46	Mr Minister, I am only asking for the floor on a point of order. It's very problematic what's going on. The House has a foreign ministry to discuss today. We are coming to address this issue. We did it. But when we have the Ministry here, it is incomprehensible to claim that more topics relating to the responsibility of the Ministry cannot be raised. You're wrong. You are making a very big mistake and you must know that Parliament has followed this logic when ministries come here for sanctions of agreements or conventions. That's for granted, you're just ignoring it. Secondly, we agree with you that our policy should not be changed in relation to Turkey's accession and the relevant procedures in the European Union. The presence of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs today in the House and of any other ministry gives political parties the right to draw up statements by the Turkish President. Thirdly, I am very pleased that you agree with your silence that there is a problem with regard to our foreign policy from the actions of the Ministry of National Defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u47	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u48	Mr. Theocharopoulos, now 'we have found a priest, we have to bury five to six'! That is the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u49	For just a minute, I ask the floor, Mr President, and the Minister will answer it in full.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u50	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u51	The Minister accepts it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u52	Assuming the Minister's here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u53	Wait a minute! The Minister accepts it. I want to say something about Kazakhstan.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u54	Mr. Theocharopoulos, please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u55	In a minute, Mr President, I will be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u56	Mr. Theocharopoulos, please very much. To misunderstand the courtesy and mood of the Bureau...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u57	I want to say something about Kazakhstan to the Minister, and the debate is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u58	Here, Mr. Theocharopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u59	As far as Kazakhstan is concerned, for the bill today, you quite rightly said about labour issues that there are instruments in place. I told you in my speech too. What we need to see is whether, in fact, they are actually going to be implemented in practice and we agree. As far as Turkey is concerned...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u60	Please, Mr. Theocharopoulos. You're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u61	On this particular issue for Turkey, in fact, we are in the line of defence, of Turkey staying in the European Union on that logic.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u62	Good, understandable.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u63	As far as the other issues you have said are concerned, I have raised them because they are major issues in this House. Today, as far as Parliament's Budget Office is concerned, there is a post...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u64	Please very much, Mr. Theocharopoulos. You got the answer. You got a multiple answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u65	Mr President, don't cut me off. There is a report today that Mr Liargova is being stopped. You told me about work. You criticised the previous ones. I have mentioned what the report of the Bureau of the Parliament's Budget Office says. You can answer it if there are flexible forms of employment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u66	Good, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u67	Also for public debt...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u68	You're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u69	And as far as public debt is concerned, the fact that it is 64 billion, not 84 billion, does the interest at this time, in your opinion, make the debt useful? Give an answer to these specific questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u70	Good. The Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, George Katrugalos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u71	The only reason why I take the floor again is because, in fact, while I referred to all the issues which have been raised, I failed to mention one that Mr Lovers raised. I still have the same view of how the roles of parliamentary control and legislative work should be distinguished. However, let us say that this is our disagreement at all. On this particular issue you have raised, I think the truth of my opinion is true. You raised an issue, which may be about the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but it is, in particular, a matter concerning the Ministry of Defence. You put it in such a way that whatever response is given may also have these shortcomings later on, as you have invoked them now. That is precisely what it shows, because parliamentary control should be exercised seriously and not for impression. As far as I know, however, the Minister of National Defence has already given clear answers and explanations, saying that he was a proxy of the State of Saudi Arabia, as provided for by the legislation, the one who negotiated and therefore there is no question of a loophole in the legal order.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u72	The debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is hereby terminated: ‘Following the strengthened Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Kazakhstan, of the other part’. Asked by this House: Can the bill be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u73	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u74	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u75	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u76	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u77	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u78	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u79	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u80	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u81	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Resolved Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Kazakhstan, of the other part’, was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of the articles and the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u83	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S1-commons.u84	With the consent of the House at 10.44 the meeting for Wednesday, November 8, 2017, on the subject of the House's work: legislative work, only debate and vote at first, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development: "Acting outdoor commercial activities, modernisation of the Chamber's legislation and other provisions" according to the agenda distributed.
