ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 4-10-2017, the minutes of its Third Meeting of Wednesday, 4 October 2017, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Structuring of the Multilateral Agreement of Competent Authorities for the Exchange of Reports by Country, implementing provisions and other provisions’.]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 6 October 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 9/2-10-2017 by MP Halkidiki of the New Democracy Mr. Georgios Vagionas to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "The threat of a bandage for thousands of bakerys". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 10/2-10-2107 by the Member of Parliament, Mr Jasona Fotella, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Will a solution be finally given to the issue of 'AMIADIT'? Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The fourth question, number 20/3-10-2017, will be discussed at the first time in the Parliamentary Party of Greece, Mr. Ioannis Giokas, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the closure of the ice-cream production plant in Tavros, by "FRONERI HELLAS". Mr. Gioka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u2	Madam Minister, as has been said, the topical question concerns the closure of the 'FRONERI HELLAS' plant in Tavros, which led to unemployment, literally on the road, a hundred employees with contracts of indefinite duration and a further two hundred seasons, who were working until a few days ago at the plant and who are not even entitled to unemployment benefits today on the basis of the conditions laid down by the counter-factual legislation. The pretext of the company, in order to close the factory, that it had an injurious activity, is unacceptable because, in addition to everything else, we are talking about a multinational company. This is a subsidiary of the ‘FRONERI INTERNATIONAL PLC’, a consortium of the NESTLE groups and another British company based in the United Kingdom and active in twenty-two countries. It is obvious that this is a restructuring of the group - after all, they admit it themselves - in order to make it even more profitable. It is also unacceptable how the company acted, with a surprise communication to the workers, while the decision was obviously preconceived for too long and throughout the summer the factory was intensively produced and, above all, with the gun on the workers' head, to accept either voluntary departures or to be fired on the basis of legislation. And this blackmail is a step on the anti-government memorial legislation that has been shaped by previous governments and you, and which you are intensified. The question is specific: What measures will the government take to ensure that the jobs of all workers, of permanent staff and of seasonal workers are not made redundant? Indeed, we know that your employees have visited, have made proposals, such as, for example, to be absorbed into other activities of the NESTLE parent company in Greece. On this question, we want a concrete answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u4	Mr Gioka, any case involving the closure of the enterprise or a production unit and from which consequences are caused for workers in the country is a separate case that the Ministry of Labour is working. This company, 'FRONERI HELLAS', has indeed, as you have said, gone ahead with the closure of the units which it has in the bull and this, obviously, has dramatic consequences for workers with indefinite contracts of indefinite duration and for seasonal workers. I'll let you know what the ministry did about it. Workers, through their club, submitted on September 26th, Tuesday, a request for a trialogue meeting at the Ministry of Labour. Immediately after receiving the request, the Ministry set the trialogue meeting for Thursday of the same week. In fact, in the call sent to the company and to the workers to come to the tripartite, the Ministry pointed out that the company should not take any action that would change the situation of the staff until the tripartite was carried out, i.e. two days later. The operation, operating in a completely abusive way, did the exact opposite. In other words, as early as Monday, before the tripartite request, it sent the workers a restructuring plan, which provided for a voluntary withdrawal programme, a programme of consensual withdrawals, to which they were given some of the above benefits, the benefits due, some additional benefits and proposed a two-year insurance cover. Therefore, by operating completely abusively, the company tried to create a fait accompli within a few days. I repeat that the tripartite request was made Tuesday, Thursday the tripartite was set with the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Labour. The hundred two employees co-signed this consensual withdrawal. I accept that this was done under the tampering break of their dismissal or under the anguish of their dismissal. However, a fait accompli was created on the day the tripartite conciliation meeting was held at the Ministry of Labour. The company, in other words, having abusive and lightning movements, tried to create fait accompli before the discussion even came to the Ministry of Labour. On the part of the Ministry, the position of the Ministry, in addition to what I have already said, is that it works in a completely abusive manner, is that here it is also a violation of the provisions of d.d.240/2006. It is the Presidential Decree for informing and consulting employees, which the company must consult and inform workers before any restructuring action, change its activity. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. In this sense, and given the fact that in the tripartite it was revealed that the company had already decided on this restructuring since Christmas, the Ministry considers that this is a violation of labour law and through the Labour Inspectorate, in the context of its controls, will impose legal sanctions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much to the Minister. Mr Giokas has the floor for his dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u6	Minister, the outcome of the tripartite meeting in the Ministry in the presence of employees' representatives and the company, let me say that it was a greeting, which you reiterated here today, along with words of sympathy for the workers who are losing their jobs and the possibility of some sanctions being imposed on the company, which has violated a presidential decree. The 'in this way', however, remains. What is the 'in this way' for which the JRC does not ask, but is it the workers who are struggling? Can you secure the jobs of the workers? In fact, concrete proposals have been made, I repeat. Secondly, since it seems that some things are running, in relation to the time when the topical question has been asked, can you ensure that seasonal workers receive unemployment benefit if they eventually lose their jobs? Can you ensure what is going to happen to those workers, who have been working all these years and have been seasonal and that some of them are close to the retirement limit and today these people are on board hanging? These are the crucial questions that we ask and which, above all, are asked by the workers. All the rest, let me, are other words to be loved. And the practical result of the tripartite is whether the company acted on the basis of the legislation. I tell you that part of the actions was based on legislation. But what legislation? This anti-government, memorial legislation, which is a weapon and makes backs to the individual employer to blackmail workers, lay off, be, and so forth. In our view, these are the questions that need to be answered. In addition, some conclusions must be drawn, particularly for the workers not only at "FRONERI", but for all workers in relation to the following: Here, it turns out who's closing the factories. Are their workers and their rights being closed down, which are constantly degraded in the name of competitiveness and profitability? They are closed by the law of profit, which you too are serving, as are the previous governments. This company had implemented all the anti-corruption legislation: wage cuts and three days and four days and rotating work and the replacement of employees. Yet, the factory is closed. Secondly, the case of the 'FRONERI' and each of the 'FRONERI' is the mirror in the literality of the development that you are evangelizing. On the one hand, we have investments in some branches on a working jungle on the other, and on the other hand, businesses, investors coming, investing, pouring out, winning and leaving, whenever it cheers them up or whenever it doesn't suit them. In our opinion, this is the basic conclusion that workers must draw from this company, but also from this point of view, to organise both their struggle, their claim and the immediate demands that we have put forward here today by our question, but above all, the need for further overthrows.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u7	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-eight students and students and three teachers attending the 5th Kallitheas High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u8	Mr. Gioka, this is not the first time I have heard this comment on the remark of your resignation on the actions of the government in relation to labour. I will repeat once again the actions that this government is doing for work. A month ago, if I'm not mistaken, we were here to discuss and vote - and you voted for it too - a law that is protective of workers from the phenomena of unpaid, undeclared work, which gives important tools to workers, and that should not be deported, because they should also know that these tools are worthy of use and that they are already being used and that they will contribute substantially to improving their daily lives. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] Since the government took up its task, the Ministry of Labour has opened its doors and is constantly holding tripartite conciliation meetings between employers, workers and the State. It is for over three hundred cases in a two-year period the reconciliation meetings held at the Ministry of Labour and most of them result in positive results for workers, whether they relate to the payment of their wages, whether it concerns the withdrawal of redundancies or other matters, and we should also not denounce that. In addition, thanks to the interventions of the Labour Inspectorate, their presents are paid to the workers, their earnings are paid, labour disputes are solved, and throughout the country there are positive results for the world of work. In addition, thanks to the interventions made by the Labour Inspectorate, we now have a significant reduction in undeclared work and undeclared work. There is a lot more to be done, but I think that everything I say shows that the only thing that this government is not doing with regard to labour is wishes. Now in relation to growth and the kind of growth that this government is evangelizing, I think it has been demonstrated in many cases by companies that are trying to violate labour legislation. A more tranquil example than the law we spent a month ago, which says that no company that violates labour law will have access to public money or to Community funds. I do not think there is a clearer example than that. The same is true of investments, which you saw went to ELDORADO, in violation of labour legislation. So I think the last thing we can say in relation to this government is that it does not lay rules on investment or that it does not lay rules and on what kind of growth it wants. The opposite is true, the exact opposite! In relation to this case, I told you that there is a clear violation of the a.d. 240/2006. Good or bad, and the government and the state, namely, the control mechanisms, which have to do with the political aim that we have for us are to protect the interests of workers, are to comply with the rules of the laws of labour law. On this axis we are moving and on it we will continue to move in the next period.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Minister. We continue with the sixth question under number 21/3-10-2017 of the First Cycle of the Member of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Unpaid workers at Rios casino". Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor for two minutes for your protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, I do not intend to continue the previous debate, Minister. I just want to say something to restore reality. You claimed that the JRC passed the specific law of the Ministry of Labour a month ago. We didn't vote for it. Some individual provisions have been adopted and, indeed, we said that they are without substance, because they do not change the overall picture of the problems facing the working class today. One of these problems - to come to this particular question - is the problems of unpaid workers at the Rio Casino. It is about two hundred and fifty workers who in many of them owe more than thirteen months of employment. Of these two hundred fifty, thirty-seven have been working for six months. In fact, the company is using the employees and does not pay them, extorting the state as a whole, but providing them with unpaid work, saying what? By constantly making arrangements to be able to repay its debts, debts which it does not repay. In 2014, he was in the process of resolution by judicial decision. It has not been followed by this resolution process. Her debts at that time were about 46 million. Today it has reached 120 and again resorts to a new process by exploiting Article 106 of the bankruptcy code, which basically obtained the court's permission. In fact, in the second trial, the public was absent in order to defend its interests from a company which does not even respect the contractual obligations, which it had, as a result, owes EUR 30 million to the tax office, 20 million to the insurance funds, 5 million to the employees. However, by extortion, it can and continues its operation without committing itself to when and how it will repay the workers. In the face of this situation, firstly, what measures will the Ministry take to ensure that workers are normally paid their wages and, secondly, that they take all the employees they have through their immediate payment?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u12	Mr Karthanasopoulos, before I put to the essence of the question, I would like to say that the criticism of the labour provisions of the bill that was passed and made the law of the state a month ago has no substance. It is a criticism I expect from the right wing of the House. I wasn't expecting it from you, who are supposed to know the daily business stories and what each one of these arrangements means for their everyday lives. I think you can appreciate and assess it. In relation to Ryu casinos, it is a highly problematic company that faces sustainability problems and its public debts, to workers, to the insurance funds, continue to exist despite the successive efforts to restructure the company. It is an enterprise that falls within the competence of the Ministry of Finance, as you know. I shall therefore, as far as I can, be placed through the data of the Ministry of Labour and how the relevant services of the Ministry of Labour have acted. It has been hard for the Ministry of Labour for two reasons: firstly, because of the wages owed to workers, allowances and other benefits - and secondly, because of the debts owed to the single social security institution to the insurance funds. The Labour Inspectorate has taken a series of actions since 2015, so we also have violations of labour legislation from this company. Following complaints from employees, a series of complaints has been filed for non-paid in December 2015, June 2016, September 2016, January 2017, March 2017, the Labour Inspectorate and periodically depending on the working groups to which the remuneration is due. A tripartite reconciliation was also carried out in June 2017. There the workers said that the company owes EUR 5.270,000 to employees for paid wages, allowances, etc., and there was an agreement between the employees and the company that there would be an effort on its part to be consistent and to pay back the dues. This company was subject to a resolution regime in 2014. In this context, it was foreseen in relation to its debts to the insurance funds that it would pay back its debts in a hundred and forty-four instalments, if I am not mistaken. In fact, it did not comply with these doses and 1-1-2017 lost this arrangement. In April 2017, it submitted a new resolution agreement, signed by the operational association. This consolidation agreement will be dealt with in a few days, I think on 18 October by the courts. So this case has taken the course of justice, and that is where the competence of justice comes in on whether to approve, whether to ratify the resolution agreement or not. However, I should like to inform the House that the ECJ will be present at this trial and will argue that the request for resolution must be rejected, because the company that has been in debt has not been consistent with its regulations and has not been consistent with the previous resolution plan either. For our part, we are therefore clear that in the specific court dispute, the single social security institution, will be presenting itself against the company's request for resolution.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u14	There is still a debate which suits you, Minister, for the value of the law passed a month ago. Today's debate on the two topical questions of the JRC highlights the incompleteness of your legislative work and how effective it is to protect workers, not to mention your public positions, for example, who are blocking the change of the bankruptcy code. You yourself said that "we certainly don't have any weapons in our hands because the lenders and, of course, the capital don't want the Banking Code to change about who they're first compensated" in the tripartite we've done with the press and map employees for the Europa agency. But let's go to the point, see what matters exist. You referred to a number of issues, but they hide the overall picture. First, you said that since the company owes it, it can't take money from the state. However, here we have a company belonging to a particular person, to a particular businessman, who owes 30 million to the tax office and another tax company from another tax company, and this company requires that the rest of the tax be paid to him to the other legal person, which he has. It was 5.5 million euros and now it owes him 2 million public, the tax, when he owes 30 million. There is no netting, it can take money, because it is a different legal person. While, when a taxpayer, a natural person, has a tax refund, you say to him, "it was expected that HISHA will come and we will offset it!" You're not returning it to him. That's how things are shaped. The second question is that on 13 September there was a second trial for the application for preventive measures. There no one was present by the public or by the insurance funds, and the court accepted the application for preventive measures. I accept your commitment to the next trial, that the public will be present and will ask for the resolution measures not to be accepted. Of course, since you have also referred to the workers' association there, first of all, is it acceptable for the company to maintain discrimination against workers, that is to say to others for three months to owe another thirteen? To others have punishing reason, because they have been seized on employment and others to give their dooms he owes them? What laws is this and what regulations? In addition, to see how these two issues are linked - and I conclude with this, Mr President - you referred to the workers' union. There with the union of workers, it turns out to be the employers' and government's union. The president of the club, who is also a member of the GCC Executive Committee, has made a consultative firm, in which he is president and CEO and has signed a contract with Rios casino, in which he works and is the president of the employees, that until the workers are paid off, he will advise the company and co-administer 9,000 euros a month plus VAT. Do you know, Minister, this deal he's made? In fact, there is also a condition in the agreement that, as far as this convention is concerned, Mr Karageoropoulos's company will go and defend the interests of the company and the courts. That's why the worker union and the Patras Labour Center and the gambling federation went to testify for the company. And until when has he signed a contract of payback? Until 2035. The employee representative, the "employer", has signed a contract by 2035 that the prizes will be paid, and until then he and the company he has set up will receive EUR 9,000 per month for his advice to the company. So you see how the bucket is involved. But I say it, so that people and workers can draw conclusions about what government and employers' union means and how they have to change it and what the effectiveness of government policies is, whatever individual regulations they do. Because they do not fundamentally question, but they support - because this is the overall legislative framework - the interests of business groups and capital to the detriment of workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Come on, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u16	I think I should say things I know and things I don't know how to commit to investigating them. So the part concerning special treatment, as you have presented it, which Is the taxi to this entrepreneur in relation to the rest of the citizens, I do not know and do so. We have to look into it, because if it's the way you say it, there's a question. However, on the public side, the Single Social Security Body was present and on the debate on the suspension - essentially - of the enforcement of the necessary measures. What I think is not acceptable in any way is discrimination, which you say there are workers, depending on whether they belong to the operating association or not, and whether they make agreements with the employer or not, and are actually punished for their trade union activity. It is a case that requires further investigation and requires systematic investigation in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance. I'm here to tell you what the Department of Labour has done. But I accept that there should be a joint investigation into the case, given that there is essentially supervision of this operation, ultimately, by the Ministry of Finance. However, with regard to the incompatibility of the interventions, which you have always emphasised here in this House, when we are discussing such questions, I would remind you that this was the case of the casino of Alexandroupolis, the same businessman, where the casino's debts to employees were very large. However, with coordinated efforts on the part of both workers and pressure from the side of the Ministry of Labour and the Labour Inspectorate, the remuneration due was actually paid and proceeded smoothly for the workers. In other words, I think we should not deprive ourselves of the possibilities that are created and the tools that we have in our hands. The example of Alexandroupolis' casino for workers is an example of how by exploiting all the tools we have in our hands and exerting pressure - I would remind you that there the Labour Inspectorate had threatened to suspend the operation on a temporary basis - the workers' fair demands can finally be met.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Minister. We continue with the fifth under number 4/2-10-2017, a topical question from the H' Vice-President of the Parliament and MPs II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the book of Geography taught in Albania. The current question will be answered by the State Secretary for Foreign Affairs, Ioannis Amanatidis. Come on, Mr President, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, good morning. We have a very serious issue at the beginning of this year's school year, which you know and I know personally and the personal sensitivity but also the sensitivity of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Kotzias, on related issues. For the Minutes to say that the books of the 9th and 12th grades in school in Albania continue to include the chapter "Albanian regions of Greece". This book presents itself as areas of "Tsamouria" from the division of Northern Epirus in 2014, areas such as Konitsa, Kastoria, Florina, the entire Epirus, Preveza, Arta, Igoumenitsa. In other words, they also have pictures of the port of Igoumenitsa, which are presented as Albanian regions. Despite parallel transnational agreements over the last decade between the Greek and Albanian ministries, we see Albanians insist. As a sign of goodwill we, of course, and the Greek Ministry of Education - and rightly so - have removed from school books every reference to the Hellenism of Northern Epirus. This is a very serious challenge for the neighbouring country and I note here that we also have an attempted uprooting of the Greeks and the Greek minority in Chimara. With this brief record - you know this very well, Minister - you ask how you intend to respond to Albania's persistent non-compliance with the agreement? In what ways do you intend to stop the nationalist arrogance of the Tiranas against Greek rights and interests? Will you request withdrawal of this book? What measures do you intend to take to ensure the historical integrity of our country, both to the Greek minorities in Albania and to the nation in general? And lastly, given the course - and this is important - we will also discuss this in our second language - Albania's accession negotiations with the European Union, do you intend to take all legal steps to restore the challenges? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr Kammene, in fact in your time. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. I take this opportunity because of today's day, which is October 5, which is the International Educational Day and because you know my capacity as a teacher - I would like to speak a little bit of your tolerance, Mr President - to speak thirty seconds about it. I would like to express from the Step of the House, after giving me the opportunity, our support and say that we are working together with the teachers, so that we can achieve what has always been our Government's goal, namely, free, public, qualitatively upgraded education. And borrow a slogan of the World Federation of Educational Education: "Season and quality education means first of all caring for the teacher". I think that, along with this, we have the teachers and we are fighting for the solution to the problems of public education. Mr President, I thank you for the question, because this is a very serious matter to which you are referring. We are monitoring it with particular care together with the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs. And, of course, we have the Greek-Albanian Joint Committee of Experts set up under the Educational Agreement of Greece - Albania in 1998 and the Executive Programme of Educational Cooperation of Greece - Albania of 2003. The third meeting of that Committee took place on 21 February 2017. There were two previous ones, in 2007 and 2014. Despite our pursuit, the Albanian side did not accept at this meeting on 21 February the questionable school books of history and geography. However, in the minutes of this committee, the books of history and geography will be discussed at the next meeting of the committee. She was scheduled to take place in mid-May of this year. It was not because of the elections that were held on the Albanian side. Albania is a member of UNESCO and the Council of Europe. However, education policy, which follows here, is inconsistent with the basic values, namely tolerance, mutual understanding and the avoidance of reproduction of negative stereotypes. These are not reflected in their school manuals. The maintenance of this unacceptable and insulting part of the books "Albanian regions in Greece", unfortunately, shows us that the Albanian state is still trapped, Mr. MEP, in anachronistic, nationalist and great-minded perceptions that are detrimental first of all to Albania itself. We have made them clear and imperative that this content is unacceptable and should be removed as soon as possible. Here - and I will speak more in my dentistry - I would like to say that the greatest pressure that has been put on has been reflected in the five key priorities set by the European Union General Affairs Council - at first and as a country we have added four more - and it is the main lever of pressure if that country wants to see positive developments in its European path.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u21	Thank you. Here, Mr. Cammene, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u22	Minister, thank you very much. It is encouraging what you are telling us. However, there is - and there will continue to be - one concern, because from what I understand this year's school year they do not intend to change the books or remove these funds or print new ones. The question is that these books are taught to children of the Greek minority, so Albanians as well as Greek Albanians of the minority are taught these lessons at an early age and as much as trying each family is sowing in their heads an idea, even that some parts of Greece are Albanian. It's worrying that they're talking about the chameleon and Chamouria. I see it as a lever for Turkey. This will also be recorded in the Minutes and it is my personal position. Turkey within its foreign policy strategy to exclude or enclose Greece through a Muslim arch - and not only - is pressing to develop Muslim faith in Albania. We know about the billions he has given Albania for many reasons, educational and not just. I have visited many times, as we said before, our Archbishop Anastasio and I see how difficult his work is there, but also the Greek Archdiocese. I shall combine it with the applications in Thrace - it is not, of course, this but I have a little time - for the 'Turkish associations of Thrace'. So we have to pay attention to both the chamika and the "Turkish associations" and the "Macedonian associations of friendship", because allo­corruption issues and points have been noted in the schools in Skopje, which of course are now beginning to change with the new management and the new government. However, we must be extremely careful. As far as this book is concerned, as you said, I do not know if we have taken a step towards UNESCO. You said quite rightly that UNESCO is an agency which is extremely dynamic and its findings and its interventions are crucial, perhaps more important than the European Union. In other words, if you are a state, the European Union should tell you that you are doing something wrong than UNESCO. I therefore think that we should turn our attention to UNESCO, with particular reference to the books and messages that go through these books, especially to young children. There should be a debate here with the Embassy of Albania in Greece and with our embassy in Tirana, so that the Greek strategy can be made public, and within Europe's Fora. As you quite rightly said - I will say this once again about the Minutes - we must not allow any debate on any chapter that opens up for Albania's entry into the European Union, without removing all these aluminums and all these majestics, which are dangerous in this region, which has given birth to almost all the World Wars. From here or around here, everything started and we need to be very careful. I therefore hope - and I am sure - that the Ministry will do its best. Please, if you have any news, inform Parliament, because the world in northern Greece is concerned. That's where the question started, if you'd like. We had a pressure - and rightly - of the synapses in northern Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, my colleague. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u24	Mr Colleagues, you are right about UNESCO. At the beginning of November, the great UNESCO Assembly will be held in Paris. I am going to be there, and I think I will also be present in my speech on these issues. It is characteristic that such an effort has been made from various circles. However, I have told you that the Greek Government has achieved the main priority that the General Affairs Council of Europe wanted, to integrate four more. For the Minutes, I would like to mention what the five key priorities are. It is the reform of the judiciary, the reform of the public administration, the fight against corruption, the fight against organised crime and the strengthening of the protection of human rights, which includes, of course, the policy of non-discrimination - that is, we are crucial - the rights of minorities and the application of rights throughout the country rather than in certain areas. You can't leave one area, you can't go to another, and there you can't be a Greek minority. It is one of the key points which is reflected in the conclusions of the General Affairs Council of December 2016, as well as of course 15 December 2015. Mr von Wogau, we attach particular importance - and I would like to assure you of this - to respecting and safeguarding in practice all the rights of the indigenous Greek minority in Albania, regardless of the region, as I have said before. All rights of the Greek national minority depend on the state of the rule of law and the administration of justice in Albania, as well as its unsuccessful contractual obligation to respect and protect in practice human and minority rights throughout its territory. It is our fundamental concern, therefore, to protect all the rights of our unscrupulous relatives. We are monitoring the relevant developments and we are always taking the appropriate steps - I refer to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' communications, when concrete interventions were made - in view of the best way of safeguarding our national interests. The same, of course, applies to the national Greek minority in Albania. Finally, I would like to say that we have a firm desire, Mr Papoutsis, for dialogue and cooperation, as well as for issues of bilateral and regional interest. Today, even today, the second Conference of Foreign Ministers is taking place, a form of permanent quadripartite cooperation between Greece, Bulgaria, Macedonia and Albania. Of course, the issues dealt with there are other issues: regional cooperation, energy, etc. However, this figure seems to reflect our policy, support for the enlargement of the European Union, but with specific rules, which I have explained to you for this particular state what it is like. And, unfortunately, I want to say something about the old government. When they took the lead in 2014 - and rightly so - so that Albania would be a candidate country - a member of the European Union, then unfortunately there was no negotiation and no conditions were set on the Greek side. We find these things before us, but with our policy and our consistency we continue to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Before we move on, I would like to mention the timely questions which will not be discussed. The first, with number 1/2-10-2017, top-stage question of the Chios MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Andreas Michaelides to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Completion of work for the formation and fence of an expropriated area at Chios airport and extension of the Christos road", will not be discussed due to the absence of Minister Spirtzi abroad. The third, with number 3/2-10-2017, top-stage question by the MP of the Democratic Integration PASOK - DIMAR Mr.MAR.Michael Jeleli to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The creation of three new toll stations on the Promahona road line - Serres - the port of Thessaloniki is disastrous for the Prefecture of Serres", will not be discussed due to the absence of Minister Spirtzi abroad. The fifth, with number 24/3-10-2017, topical question by the Member of Parliament, Lesvos, of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Stavros Tassos, to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, concerning immediate compensation for seismopaths and compensation for damages in Lesvos, will not be discussed due to the absence of Minister Spirtzi abroad. The fourth under number 23/3-10-2017 a topical question by MP II Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Culture and Sport, concerning the work of maintenance of the New Monastery of Chios, will not be discussed due to the absence of Minister Koniordos abroad. Also, the first question under number 2/2-10-2017, on the second question of the Parliamentary Corinth of the Radical Left Coalition, Maria Thaleritis, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on "Protection of OTA workers and respect for health and safety rules", will not be discussed after consultation of the Member with the Minister in question. The second, with No 7/2-10-2017, is the first question of the Athens Prime Minister, Gerasios Giakoumatos, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning measures on the demographic problem of the country, will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the relevant Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr. Theanos Fotio, on the grounds of the parallel exercise of parliamentary duties. Ladies and gentlemen, MP Kastoria of the New Republic, Maria Antonio, is requesting permission from a few days' absence abroad from 7 October to 10 October 2017 to participate in the international conference of the Israel Allies Foundation to take place in Jerusalem. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u26	The House therefore approved the requested permission. We continue with the timely questions that will be answered by the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Evangelos Apostleou. We begin with the second with number 8/2-10-2017 and the second question of the new Republic MP Drama, Dimitrios Kyriazides, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the problem of potato growers in the Lefkanopolian basin of Lower Nyrokotiou, Drama. Mr. Cryazides, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u27	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the third consecutive crop season has passed and the affected potato producers in the Lower Neuroscope are still abandoned by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, from which only promises are made. Although it was from the Step of the Greek Parliament, your commitment - if I remember correctly, it was February 6th of this year - to find solutions immediately and strengthen affected potatoes farmers through the implementation of a de minimis programme, no action and no action has developed your Ministry so far. I would like to express the desperation and desperation of these farmers, who are Greek taxpayers - guard Thermopylae, Minister - in view of this year's increase in production costs due to drought - there was terrible anomaly - and the low disposal of this agricultural product. Minister, it was sold ten minutes a kilo. We also had the evergreen introduction of potato that is "Greek" and is renamed to the Greek market as a Newrokomion potato. You must finally respect and not ignore this whole situation. The state must compensate these fellow citizens who have been diagnosed and supported for three years in every way in the near future. It is disgraceful that a ruled state for three years has been promulgating them, beating them on their backs and, ultimately, staying on the verge of wishing. Minister, you ask yourself: what will finally happen to the affected potato growers? When and how will they be compensated? Will you implement what you promised to implement the de minimis aid programme? What about the durable potato varieties recommended by the Benacy Institute? Will the Ministry be subsidised, too, so that the increased cost of purchasing and cultivation can be covered? Is there going to be a specific Community programme or, in any case, a state contribution and in this matter? What measures has the government taken or will the government take to control and prevent the ever-increasing of imported potatoes and rename them? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u29	Mr President, I was troubled by your question mainly on its content, which is why I have raised both my oral answers to your own topical question and to the written answers given by the Secretary-General on the same question. And I am referring to the promise of a de minimis programme. Nowhere is this promise. I would like to stress this once again: I have told you that in the ELGA Vegetable Production Insurance Regulation, the Cytological Damages are not covered in insurance. Of course I was referring to the case of Neuroscope. These damages can be included in the programme of state financial aid, known as the MAGP, but it is essential to establish the seriousness of the damage caused by such weather conditions or unforeseen events, such as the one we are discussing, and at regional level to have a minimum rate of 30%. In this case, therefore, it is not established that the damage to the region exceeded 30% of GDP in this regional section. So we cannot serve it. From there on, because this particular fungus has really caused damage, we understand the problem that exists. But, to solve it, the only way is to see the insurance risks of the ELGA and to incorporate these insurance risks. However, as you can see, this cannot be done from one day to the next, how much more than to cover retroactive damages that were done three years ago. But, as you know, and to make such a move, we are so strictly controlled by the competent institutions of the European Union that, in the end, what we will have, if there is some relief in this case, are financial corrections and fines that we have already imposed. We have 3 billion in front of us and we do not know how to deal with them. Don't add any more. At least on this part is now a common view that we have put one order and in these two and a half years that we have served the place, we do not have a single fine.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Cryazides, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u31	Minister, you have avoided answering and I say this sincerely. We are talking about an area where this year - we will see it and then, although I hope we do not see it, but the reality is tough - we are experiencing a humanitarian crisis. You don't want to understand it. So we're talking about fifteen thousand people. I say to you that the price of the potato has been opened for 10 minutes, that is, a tonne is sold 100 euros. Of course, ten tonnes have been allocated so far. However, the Greek market has been filled with potatoes of Nerokopiio. You didn't tell us how. Some checks are carried out on top only, if you wish, to press - not to say blackmail - there is the farmers there and nothing else. In any case, I would like to point out - because you said that you did not mention - that this year February you answered my question: 'Here we have a problem and this problem, as you can see, can only be dealt with by a procedure'. You say so. "The process is the one they know in the rural area. It is the de minimis process, an aid which requires two things.’ And you mentioned it. Our government, Minister, delivered you to this fund about 12.5 million. The Flevaris, we were talking about in this fund, there were 6 million. You have, of course, made a substantial sum available in your area - and you have done well - and you have strengthened the farmers affected. There are now some 156 000 in this fund. It could in a way give aid to those affected by this fungus. But you do not, although I have read to you before that you promised that you would proceed with a programme. I was forced back then, and I told you that I went to the European Commissioner and gave the possibility or, if you like, gave the direction to how to deal with the matter. But it spent about a year and we stay today in the same conversation. Unfortunately, this is the harsh reality, Minister. I would therefore ask you for the three questions I have put to me to have a specific answer. And for any compensation and how, if you like, through programs - such as Benacio, etc. - to enable these farmers to be strengthened and cultivated and, thirdly, to tell us whether you are doing any control within the meaning of these 'Greekisations'; In any case, we can find a way, Minister, to these people to enable them to stay at that border point of censorship. We should pay them where they live. Unfortunately, on the contrary, we are oppressing them, we are lagging away, I would say that we are ignoring them. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u33	Mr Colleagues, not to repeat the same thing again, that the procedure is specific. If we don't have 30%, we can't haunt consensus.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u34	We're not talking, Minister, about the issue...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u35	Please. We cannot haunt consensus.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u36	I'm talking about de minimis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u37	Mr. Cryazides, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u38	You told us they'd give up on you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u39	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u40	If you're willing, there can be, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u41	Mr. Cryazides, please. You're the ones who're done. Let the Minister answer. You must respect the minister who answers. It's not right to interrupt him. Nobody interrupted you. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u42	You put two more issues in it. One is about what will happen with the durable varieties. It was, you know, a process that was done through Benacio. He indicated specific types. A guy has already started to apply to the area. There was a farmer who started this effort. We'll wait for the results, see how it goes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u43	Minister, the world there can't stand it anymore.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u44	Please. This is not the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u45	Mr. Cryazides, don't open a dialogue. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u46	But that is not the case, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u47	That's the process, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u48	On the other issue you raised, 'Greekisation', we have already increased the control mechanisms. You note that lately the Ministry of Rural Development has been making a great effort to address the "Greekisations" through the mandatory designations of countries of origin, especially for products of animal origin. It's not an easy process. But honestly, we are speeding up as much as we can. It is a difficult process, especially in the case of potatoes and the efforts of "Greek" that are made not only in northern Greece but also in southern Greece. The control mechanisms do not have the potential, beyond what we so far offer. We're already in touch with the Ministry of Development. They'll install scanners at entrance gates. That is a concrete decision. We will, in fact, try as much as possible to increase our efforts, so that we can have a result there, but, as you can see, we must also have farmers themselves on this path.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u50	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u51	I think this is the end of the procedure, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u52	Mr President, we are talking about difficulties.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u53	But we cannot continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u54	We're always talking about Neuroscope.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u55	I understand. If you're not covered, we can't do anything else. Everyone has a complaint, and that is why this procedure is being done. You had time to develop your question. The Minister answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u56	We have not seen the government get the slightest concern!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u57	Mr. Colleague, we have to keep going. You can speak in private with the Minister. Thank you. Before we move on, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to the House, in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and with Rule 3126/2003 "Prime responsibility of the Ministers", as is the case, on 25-9-2017, a criminal case for former Ministers and State Secretarys of State. I also have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-four students and students and two educational attendants from the 3rd Kamateros High School. To know a little about the procedure, I would like to tell you that it is the procedure for topical questions, in which the Member is entitled to ask the Minister directly on some timely issues concerning him. The honourable Member begins with a protology, and the Minister answers secondary and both colleagues discuss the question. The House welcomes you. Thank you for being with us. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We continue with the last question for today, the third with number 22/3-10-2017, a topical question by MP II Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Sakis Vardalis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: “Reimbursements of firefighting oil producers, farmers and beekeepers of Thassos”. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for your prototype for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I think the size of the disaster is well known from last year's fire - it has been closed a year now - in Thassos. In addition to the thousands of acres of forest land that were burned, we were destroyed in over five hundred hives, thirty thousand olive trees, stalks, animals and others. In those days, if I remember correctly, you went to Thassos and announced compensation for all the affected, farmers, farmers, beekeepers. Now it's been a year and about a month. What does reality show? Since that fire some four hundred seventy farmers had been injured. On the basis of the regulation you have invoked in your previous reply, to a previous question here today, they were entitled to apply for compensation - I would remind you, of the four hundred seventy - only one hundred twenty. It does not mean that those who applied for will receive compensation. On the basis of the conditions laid down in this regulation, it is certain that those who receive compensation will be much less. What does the act show? That on the basis of the regulation that you signed, your government, that is, the majority of those affected by such natural disasters, fires, floods, etc., are left out. Mr Minister, I would also remind you of this: about ten days, if I remember correctly - perhaps less - after the fire we had a timely question here. To read from the Minutes what answer you have given: 'Not least there are damages, which are not covered. I'm pointing it out. We are, however, obliged to commit ourselves to the procedures known to farmers and that is what we call PSEA." You say a few words below: 'Because they are covered by the State budget, there will also be budgetary intervention'. That is what you told the farmers affected then. Mr Minister, on the basis of what I mentioned earlier, the criteria of the regulation and so on. and the fact that a majority is left out, the question is specific: Are you intending to change the regulation, that is to change the criteria, so that all those affected can be included in the compensation? Secondly, are you going to increase the funds so that farmers can actually get the value of the disaster? Third, what's going to happen? Will you take measures to reconstitute the crops and the lost production that has occurred? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor for your prototype for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u60	Colleague, our interest in compensation for all damages in Thassos is well known by the local society. It was not just that we visited the island immediately, but there were continuous visits later. And I went back, but also tiles of Ministers. I'm telling you this, so we can get these things straight. I would like to confirm that everything you mentioned has been said for my part. However, these require certain elements and rules of application. I want to be specific. Indeed, since the fire in September 2016, we had damage to four and a half thousand farmable acres, damage to plant capital, olive trees, fixed capital, seventeen warehouses, 11 stables - not to enter into a detailed description - and, of course, to stored products. I said that for these damages, which are covered by the ELGA - that is, the insurance risk - cover also requires the payment of premiums. That's what I think is understandable. When we have an insurance system that operates reciprocatingly in order to respond, it must have the corresponding revenue. So we said we'd make the assessments. Those who are in the process of covering them will be compensated as quickly as possible. Of course, for the other cases, we should consider this case known in the rural area, state aid - known as PESA - through procedures provided for under relevant regulations. The regulations that apply in this case are not ours. First of all, it is a matter of the European Commission, which has made it clear that in all cases farmers' aid should definitely be kept informed. That is why we are compiling a relevant dossier which goes through these procedures. But, in the fire you mentioned, there was a need for immediate measures by the farmers in the region. Indeed within a period of two months - I repeat, two months - the farmers in the region received a cover of at least a hundred days for the feed they needed, given that large areas were burned, which in fact had to be declared refreshable, namely that there should be no use. Indeed, that is what science demands, so that we can regenerate, reafforest these lands. So they had that compensation. From there on, I repeat that we have already said that we have already said in the process of setting up the ESDP file. Of course, through this file and through many procedures - and many of the questions you have raised, I will answer my dentex - we really want to return the activity, particularly plant and livestock, since it is an island that I would say that, in addition to its tourist use and its possibilities in the agri-food sector, it has conditions for successful results. I'll tell you more in my denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u62	I do not know what you will say, Minister, in your dentistry, in your prototype, but in the specific questions that we have put, you have not given any answer. Obviously, the inhabitants of Thassos and especially the farmers, the beekeepers, are aware of the situation today. You obviously know her, too, but you're trying to override her. You cannot have taken the cooperatives' decisions, their protest letters, which so far - one year and one month later - have not joined. Of course no one has received compensation. To be specific: You are talking about criteria and regulations. Minister, when I looked for the regulation, I saw that three months after the fire of Thassos you, by common ministerial decision, have your signature - on 30-12-2016, you voted for this regulation. Do you know what this regulation stipulates? You obviously know why you signed. It has eighteen general restrictions for such State aid to be paid. He's got ten special restrictions. It has fifteen restrictions on fixed capital and six on storage products. It has seven restrictions on livestock, animal production. Now go over all these limitations and in the end have the right to apply. Not to take, but apply for compensation. In our view, it was a bad climate, and in your joint ministerial decision the SYRIZA - ANEL government ate it too. I want to give you an example, because it is a characteristic. In order to compensate for the damage, it must be at 30% of the area, that is to say, that this figure is exceeded. It must also exceed 30% of the individual olive oil grower, that its area has been destroyed by more than 30%. We have the following cases in Thassos, which is the majority: There is a small and fragmented lot. It has two acres of olives in the fire area, which burned 100%. There's five acres elsewhere on the next hill that didn't burn. This farmer, despite having at two acres of 100% destruction, is not entitled to apply either. That's the regulation. What we ask you as a Communist Party of Greece, but also the farmers who are now aware of it, is this regulation that you have brought, changed or not changed? That is the essence of the matter. Because it's not just the disasters in Thassos. It's all over Greece. To know, then, what farmers expect. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr President. Secondly, they apply and join, despite any restrictions you put with these regulations. What are they gonna get? For 2017, in the budget, you have 16,000,000 to compensate those affected in 2013. That is, four years later you can give 16,000,000 for those affected in 2013. When will those affected in 2017, 2016, as in the case of the Sea? After four to five years, I mean. What are they gonna get? Sixteen million, which are not only for those affected in Thassos, but for all of Greece. The 16 million are for all of Greece. That's why we're thinking of answering specific questions. Do you intend to change the regulation? Are you going to give more money to the affected? These are the questions. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the Educational Programme "The Workshop of the Republic" organized by the Foundation of Parliament, twenty-three students and students and an educational attendant from the 5th Petroupoli Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u64	Mr Colleague, for the change of the Rules of Procedure, you have responded. I am telling you, because by saying that from 2013 we come to 2016-2017, this is what we want to deal with. With the change in the regulation, time goes automatically to half last year, because the procedures are being shortened. All the other conditions are regulatory issues, as I have said, from the Commission. Now, if we accept them or not, it's a different subject, and we need a lot of time to talk about them. So I am telling you as a typical example what happened and we have approved the damage to the 2016 fire year substantially next year. First, it took two and a half years and three years to approve the damage and to follow the rest of the procedure. We have given priority to the issue of quickly reconstituting crops and paying aid, of course, within the framework of - I repeat - the guidelines relating to State aid. I would like to tell you that the assessments of the damages caused to livestock, which are covered by the ELGA, have already been completed. We have nineteen statements concerning four hundred fifty ovine and caprine animals and five hundred beessosmeni. The compensation will soon be paid, in addition to what I said to you, there has been an exceptional aid last year. Because, indeed, there is a problem, what I have to say to you is that this year will also be given this aid, adding five farmers, who last year had not declared themselves and who had not appeared, and another aid for six other farmers, who were affected by the disasters of December - January - will also be added. This is, of course, a process - I would say - relief on the great problem they have in meeting the needs for animal feed. So, as you can see, the government understands and tries to deal with the problems of these regions. But we are talking about rural areas and behind the rural area, there is a common agricultural policy, with which you can disagree, but if you are addressing the rural world at this time, it will tell you that thankfully this common agricultural policy also exists and that our income is supplemented. So we are obliged to manage properly, and above all - and I said it before, and I repeat - not to come every year out of demands and withdrawals of millions. It's over, and it's really for the relief of the rural area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-05-S1-commons.u66	With the agreement of the House at 11.00 noon the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 6 October 2017, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
