ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 25-9-2017, the minutes of the PPP's proceedings were confirmed by the Bureau on Monday, 25 September 2017.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House the letter from Mr Michu to the President of Parliament, which reads as follows: 'Mr President, please, as you have announced in this House my resignation from the Group of the People's League - Golden Dawn. I have been saying today that I am going to act in this House as an Independent MEP. In honour, Nikolaos Michos, Member of the Evia Parliament".
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u3	I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers of National Defence, Home Affairs, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Finance, Migration Policy and Maritime Policy, Deputy Ministers of Home Affairs, National Defence, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights and Finance, as well as the Deputy Minister of Finance, have tabled a draft law on careers and development of officials and financial care and accounting of the Armed Forces, setting up a Joint House of Finance Commissioners and other provisions. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. In addition, the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance "Preparation of the Multilateral Agreement of Authorities for the Exchange of Reports by Country and Implementing Provisions". Finally, the Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics submits its reports to the Prosecutor's requests for authorisation to prosecute Members of Parliament. Also, I have the honour to announce to the House the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 29 September 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1529/26-9-2017 topical question by MP II Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Charulas (Haras) Kafantaris to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Pirkerm of Attica'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1526/25-9-2017 topical question by Mr Miltiadis Varvitsiotis to the Minister for Migration Policy, on the subject: "The situation on the islands of the North-East Aegean". 3. The 1521/22-9-2017 topical question by the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister for Migration Policy, on the subject: “Crisis of refugees and migrants on the islands”. 4. The 1516/20-9-2017 topical question by Piraeus II of the Communist Party of Greece. Diamantos Manolakos to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "Great and uncontrolled destruction in Argosaronic from the shipwreck of the tanker "Saint Zone II" in the Salamis region. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1527/25-9-2017 topical question by MP Lesvos, New Democracy, Charalambou Athanasiou, Minister for Migration Policy, on the problem of refugee immigration in the island of Lesvos and the measures to decongestion of the island. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No. 1515/20-9-2017 of the Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the subject: "Without ELTA Patmos, due to the extermination of the unique official." 3. Under No 1496/18-9-2017, a topical question by MP II of the Republic of Athens, Miltiadis Varvitsiotis, to the Minister for Migration Policy, on "They are caught in our country by thousands of refugees and illegal immigrants". 4. Under No 1489/13-9-2017, a topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Association of Centres Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Insufficient treatment of the environmental problem in the Municipality of Cordelios - Evosmos".
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The debate will begin with the sixth, No. 1533/26-9-2017, a topical question by the Independent MEP, Mr. Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Ectural and immediate assistance of 500,000 euros in the affected Western Achaia". The Minister of Interior will answer Mr. Skourletis. Mr. Nicolopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u5	Mr President, West Achaia needs state aid at this time, state aid to stand on its feet. I think the question of the question itself gives the content of it and does not need a separate argument. After all, the government, the institutions of the state from the beginning understood the extent of the disaster and rushed to proclaim the municipality, especially the communities of Arla and Eliochori, in an emergency, with what this implies for the mobilisation of the state. However, this is where the first rainforest is threatening settlements, areas, crops, livestock farmers. Because you realize what may mean by thirty thousand acres of destroyed forests and what disasters the new landscape may enclose, as has been shaped. The issue of the question says that it takes immediately 500,000 euros. And that is not a thought or a proposal that the Achaea MP brings here before you and calls on the Minister to adopt, but those were the assessments made by the Municipality of West Achaia, the Mayor, Mr Nicholas and the Vice-President responsible, Mr Raytakopoulou. Also, as I learn tomorrow, a technical report from the Committee on Civil Protection of the Municipality of West Achaia and the Region of Western Greece will have set precisely and so the Minister will have the real needs pictured before him, with the costs for each. Minister, we are very interested in your position. I imagine that picking and coming to answer this question shows that you understand the scale of the problem. In closing my prototype, I would like to tell you that in these difficult times everyone knows the weaknesses of the Treasury. The government, you personally have to stand, as it is worth it to them. They're not begging, they're not asking for charity. They are, however, bio-populationists, farmers, farmers, farmers. And listen to the paradox because you have passed your previous government service and responsibility: A few days after these disasters PPC threatens to download the switches, cut off the power in pumping stations of the city, in flocks and not just.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u6	Mr. Nicolopoulos, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u7	I shall conclude, Mr President. Besides, few of us are from what you can see. Don't worry. That is why I would like to say that, with your general responsibility and the special burden you have, it should also be in matters which are not your absolute competence, but at the level of government policy, that area should be approached. I would also ask that this Step and the personal assistance of the Minister for the Interior, Mr Skourletis, be taken.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u8	Thank you. Minister Skourletis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Nicolopoulou, the government is trying, on the basis of the means it has in the shortest possible time to respond to such situations, to damages from natural disasters or from fires, as is the case here. I think that the latest samples of writing not only in these cases that have seen the light of publicity and have been debated - and not in the best way, because as you and I know the media are rather deformative - are approaching these kinds of issues which concern us - but also in other cases, they show that we have effectively tried, on the basis of the available resources - you have said so in your question, seasons are not such that we can have what we want - inside. Apart from that, however, you have pointed out in your question - and rightly so - that the government has declared the regions concerned to be an emergency. This, as you know, is absolutely linked to the need to speed up procedures. What does "extreme need" mean? It means bypassing a series of procedures so that soon we can heal the wounds. On the basis of the information I have from the relevant ministries in relation to the Western Achaia case, already by the Ministry of Rural Development, which has carried out on-the-spot checks and records, a request has been made to the European Commission to speed up the planned aid and advances by way of derogation from the regulations in force. This request was approved on 25 September 2017 and is expected from 16 October to start disbursing such advances. This will be a relief for the rural population. In relation to the issues relating to water supply projects related to the remaining disasters in the area from fire, the region that has set up a mechanism that can under the collective project decisions with codes 801 and 055 to accept specific requests is mainly responsible. As far as I understand it, you announced to us a moment ago that this kind of report should be brought to the attention of the municipality. I would like to say to you that the Ministry of the Interior, and not just through the region, is responding to such requests. We have not been here for the moment, and obviously the approaches to damage size are worthwhile, but relative. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] These requests must be documented on the basis of some technical reports, the damage suffered by infrastructures and, as you may know, this money is being disbursed and on the basis of the course of work. We cannot afford to give them blindly in order to go to the intended purpose. I am telling you, and I conclude, that the Ministry of Interior in May 2017 for water projects in the Municipality of West Achaia, in other words for the fight against water shortages - I speak before the fire - has approved 150,000 euros, has given for the current year 78,000 euros for fire protection and, of course, within the framework of the CFPs, the Central Independent Resources, for investment projects of this category for 2017, 373,920 euros have been approved. We are waiting, in other words, for the extra demands to be met as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u10	Please, Mr Nicholas, you have the floor for three minutes again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u11	Mr President, I thought that only in the KAS were they so delayed, but I did not expect the Member to be in this weakness towards the Minister who came here through parliamentary control to press, as all the Achaea Members did. And I am able to know that the Minister has also accepted at private meetings of the Achaea MPs to highlight these issues which we are now discussing in the Western Achaia. That is why I did not want to bother to inform you in detail, because I know that you are well aware of the disaster and the conditions under which my fellow citizens are obliged to live in this critical period. However, I did not really believe that a month later I would come here to the House and say to me: 'I have not yet received the request'. What can I say? I'm not saying anything. I want all of us to keep this commitment, Minister. I would like to express my modest optimism about what good news you bring from your colleague to the Minister for Rural Development, because this is a very big matter. It says that only for changing the water network may not reach 250 grand. You can understand that after the fires all these pipes were burned, taking water to the pastures, to the flocks and not only, but also to the other crops. Any network was destroyed. While feed is necessary, 100 tonnes of feed, they do not now have the animals grazing, since the whole vegetation has been burned. So what you said to us that this evening, with the slaping of turtle, a state of Athens, which we knew, responded to and took our demands to the institutions of the European Union, is a message that we can expect, as happened - and I would ask you to take the opportunity to follow it - in the past few days, Mr President, when the regional director approved the request of the municipality of the Netherlands Achaia, that he be guaranteed for the two million that the municipal water company owes from many years in order not to cut the current immediately after these disasters. It was also a big issue and it seemed that it was paradoxical and could not be done. But if you follow this rule that you have told us, Minister, that politics is only meant when it is done in favour of the weak and in favour of all those who are under the circumstances, as now my Western Achaia compatriots, then better management can be carried out. Because if there is another logic that is heard in recent times, that whoever has, whoever can, can only live, whether he is OTA or a fellow citizen, our alimony! So, please, let us look closely at the issue by bypassing, as has happened, procedures and by considering that we must give the kiss of life to a large area, which really lives from the motherland, from its crops and has nothing else. The state now has to do its duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, too. Here, Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Nicolopoulou, I think this is where the mermaid is and for the sake of it. We must therefore agree, within Ethiopia today, that we must respond quickly, and you and the other Achaea MPs must also press, as you quite rightly said, in any case have shown their interest in the disaster that existed in the West Achaia Municipality. They must press to come from the services, submit requests from the municipality, so that answers can be given as soon as possible. You have your luxury, when you ask the question, to extend to matters beyond it. I undertake to answer for my own portfolio. But since you put it, and I think they're of special interest to some things...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u14	It's the news.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u15	So, this timeline, then...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u16	Not to remind a cemetery and a fridge in this Chamber, we're just a few.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u17	I agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u18	Let me quote something: The newspaper 'DIMMOCRATIA' today says 'Mr Christoforikos, finally!'. Let's hear it. Jesus was brought to trial. Do You Remember?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u19	We said to "manipulate" the news, but don't take it that far.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u20	It wasn't me, Minister, when Mr. Christmas left.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u21	Everyone knows who he was, then. But anyway...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, what are these now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u23	Mr. Nicolopoulos, please, you're out of the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u24	Mr President, some people are protesting!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u25	But since you have referred to matters relating to the municipality - and I am referring to the issues of debts to PPC - I would like to say this: although in some cases a major problem is, we have made a number of efforts in the last year to reduce these debts to PPC and this has already been done. However, I would like to say another thing: we must make use of all the possibilities, which are available at the moment, to go to energy-saving projects to reduce the energy costs of the municipalities. The cost of irrigation today is extremely expensive with old machines, which burn not to say what. There are currently energy saving and upgrading programmes. Take advantage of them, then, of the municipalities! So this money will be saving and it will be to the benefit of all of us. As far as the CSCE is concerned, do not confuse it all, do not put it all in the same basket. It's a different-class thing. However, in this country with huge tradition, with culture that is a chapter alive, but also in the adventurous, time-consuming, we must protect the historical heritage and not for the sake of political feasibility to destroy the institutional framework. Because archaeologists today give a battle to defend this country's identity, and there can be no political destiny to neutralize their work. And it is shameful what is written today in a portion of the press, which is trying to undermine one of the most remarkable services of the Greek state. Yes, well, in investment, but under rules that apply to everyone, not selectively for some, because some want to create impressions, which are often false. Because if I remember, following your example, expanding the agenda of this timely question, perhaps it won't know much about people that today's Chief of Officer Response, when he had visited and toured the Skouries by the people who are opposed to the investment, he said "here is a paradise forest and I will do everything to prevent this catastrophic investment". This evidence is available and will come to the public in a few days' time. Like the New Democracy official and former Chief of the then Liberal Alliance Mr. Bakoyannis had opposed this investment. We have forgotten all this, thanks to a sterile opposition, which only aims to create impressions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u26	Where did you from Achaea to Skouria?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u27	The whole of Greece is a neighborhood.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u28	It's for the sake of "SKAI"...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u29	Please, Mr. Nicolopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u30	Mr. Portasalte puts it on the agenda, not the opposition.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u31	Mr. Nicolopoulos, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u32	I'm sorry, Mr. President, but three hundred and fifty-seven appointments with Christmas...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u33	Please, Mr. Nicolopoulos. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 ‘Prime Responsibility of Ministers’, as applicable, on 25-9-2017: 1. Criminal proceedings concerning the Minister for Health, Mr Andreas Xanthos. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Criminal proceedings concerning the former Minister for Health, Mr Andreas Lykurenzo. 3. Criminal case law concerning: to the former Minister of Finance Mr Ioannis Stournaras, to the former Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks Mr Michael Chrysochoidis, to the former Minister of Development and Competitiveness Mr Konstantinos Hatzidakis, to the former Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights Mr Charalambos Athanasios and to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport Mr Christos Spirtzis. 4. Criminal proceedings concerning the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport Mr Christos Spirtzis. 5. Criminal proceedings concerning the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr Constantine Gavroglou. 6. Criminal proceedings concerning the Minister of Finance Mr Euklidis Tsakalotos, the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport Mr Christos Spirtzis and the Minister of National Defence Mr Panagiotis Kammenos. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. Criminal courtesy of the committed since 2011 and of the former Minister of Finance, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Public Order and Civil and Health Protection. 8. Criminal proceedings concerning the Deputy Minister for Health Mr Paulo Polakis. 9. Criminal case law concerning the late Minister of National Defence, and so on. Dimitrios Avramopoulos and Panagiotis (Panos) Panagiotopoulos. 10. Criminal case law concerning: to the Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, to the Minister of Finance, Euklidis Tsakalotos, to the Deputy Minister of Finance Mr. George Huliarakis, to the Deputy Minister of Finance Mr. Catherine Steeriou - Papanatsiou, to the Minister of Economy and Development Mr. Dimitrios Papadimitriou, to the Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Nikolaos Kotzias, to the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Georgios Katrougalos and to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights Mr. Stavros Kontonis. I also have the honour to announce that the former Prime Minister, Mr Samaras, is requesting permission from absence abroad due to his transition to the Wilfried Martens Center, think Tank of the European People's Party from 27 September to 29 September 2017. The Member of Parliament, Mr Constantine Tsiaras, is hereby requested a leave for his absence abroad from 2 October to 5 October 2017. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u34	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations. We are now moving on to the second with number 1525/25-9-2017, a topical question for the second-round question from the Member of Parliament, Mr. Georgios Koumoutsakos, to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "The Greek Government's stand against the continuing intransigence of Macedonia". Mr. Kumucako, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u35	Mr President, this is a serious matter, and because rarely - and badly - the Greek Parliament is discussing foreign policy issues very critically for our country, I would ask for a tolerance of time. I wanted to start by saying that unfortunately the Minister of Foreign Affairs did not follow the example of the Minister of the Interior and is absent today. But when I heard the Interior Minister speak, I understood why he came, not to answer the question, but to show, with an irrelevant subject, completely irrelevant and different from what he was asked about. In any case, this is the concept of parliamentary control by government officials. I am sorry for the absence of Mr Kotzias today, but both parliamentary control and democratic accountability and the expression of a different opinion are procedures in which he does not feel comfortable, avoids them, underestimates them and shows that he is having trouble with them. I hope that on another occasion we will have the opportunity to discuss it. However, I thank Mr Amanatidis for being here today. Minister, after the Skopje government has been taken over by the new government, which indeed has a less intransigent position than the Gruevski government, there is a strong mobility on the issue. We are, however, talking about a mobility which at the moment does not show us where it is moving. There is mobility for mobility. The main theme of our relations remains the naming, and that is where we see no progress. Good words, easy and sympathetic statements, but in the nomination there is a stable and immoveable position of the new Macedonian government. All the efforts of the Greek Government lately seem to focus on the Confidence Building Measures. There are reasonable and serious questions here, based on the statements recently made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It says that these Confidence Building Measures have produced positive results, at the same time as the Macedonian Government remains unmovable to the nominality. So the question is this: what exactly are these positive results? What are the confidence-building measures agreed? Can't the government of Skopje, Greece, the government here? To know foreign factors, but not the Greek people? In any case, there is another question. Why twenty-seven meters from Greek and fifteen from the Skopje side? Usually, the Confidence Building Measures are in a match, one by one. Did we, Greece, have to move on to so many Confidence Building Measures? In order to convince who, who are those who are always moving in a logical way of persuading and questioning the history and the name of Macedonia? Why is this mismatch of Confidence Building Measures? I'd like to say one more thing. Recently, in all his statements the Minister for Foreign Affairs has been happy to say about excellent bilateral relations, about the course of bilateral relations which even mentioned them as the best with all the neighbours of Greece. If that is the case, how does it speak of aluterism at the same time? Or are relations between the two states fully respect international law and international treaties, as he has said, or there is a hindrance. Both can't do it. Such statements that excite the attitude of Skopje are not useful for the national case, because they can be exploited both by the Skopje Government itself and by those in the international community and the European Union who want to pressure Greece to do behind its position adopted by all the NATO member states in Bucharest in 2008, namely - and that is one reason - that neither NATO nor the Skopje European process can go ahead unless the name is resolved in a mutually acceptable way. The allies and the partners and the government of Skopje will reasonably be asked, 'If everything goes well, why don't you change your position?' All this requires clarification, Minister. We want to know where we're going. This is a serious matter. We want to know how you negotiate and what you negotiate. So far the governments have gladly stated what the position was and what their strategic goal was. Here we have some ambiguity from both the members of the government between them and between the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of National Defence, but also from other ministers who had previously taken other positions, which, if necessary, we will table. Why, then, are these Confidence Building Measures? What are their results? What is their content? Why is there mismatch, that is more for Greece and less for the Skopje? In any case, we want you to tell us why bilateral relations are so good at the same time as we accuse them of being intimidated and, in fact, we say that we do not start talking about the name, if this invasion does not disappear, despite the fact that we are talking about the name, as was seen at the last meeting of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, in the presence of Mr Nimic, who only speaks for himself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u36	The current question will be answered by the State Secretary for Foreign Affairs, Ioannis Amanatidis. Here, Mr Amanatidis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u37	The last closure you have made, Mr Kumucako, raises this question to me. So the New Democracy proposes that there should be no regional relations, that our country should not have a relationship with Macedonia or with Macedonia? So what do you suggest? That makes me an impression. Mr Kumucaco, I think you should be interested in the substance rather than communication. This is where I am, and the Department of Foreign Affairs answers through me. I'm State Secretary for Foreign Affairs, he's answering the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and we have that possibility. Unless you consider yourself far more than I do so I can answer you. Mr Kumucako, your question and what you are saying are in complete contrast with the statements you have made two months ago, three months ago and on 18 June and 12 June and 14 June in the newspapers. In other words, you say that "the atmosphere is different", in your meetings with Mr. Dimitriov, "it is positive that the new Skopje government sends a message of moderation, a message of more constructive, more productive than we used to. That's good.", etc. Mr Kumucako, I would like to tell you this: Asylum is not in the matter. And you know that both in the Foreign Policy Councils and in contacts with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but also in person with you - we have built up and I think that your last statements are composing what the Minister has done. He also spoke to the United Nations. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Mr President, please be indulgent. To finish with your first question, Mr Kumucako, we seek to strengthen regional cooperation in the Balkans, cultivate consistently friendly relations, strengthen cooperation with all our neighbouring states and promote the stability and wellbeing of the peoples. Besides, there is no different orbit - what you suggest, much better with Macedonia and less with Bulgaria, etc. - it seems that this is being devastated by the quadriparties that have also been made in the United Nations, but will also be done in the next period in Thessaloniki, and it is an institution that we have had since 2016. On the substance of the matter now, for confidence-building measures. I want to tell you a little bit about the contacts. We have contacts at a high political level, three visits by the Minister of Foreign Affairs in Skopje, two visits by his counterpart and the promotion of bilateral Confidence Building Measures. The MOE is a Greek initiative. Six rounds have been held and bilateral cooperation is being extended. Cooperation within the ILO - time does not allow me to tell you all the results, but it is at your disposal, and I can give it to you - it concerns thirteen sectors: the construction of a gas pipeline, the upgrading of the Florina Monastery rail link, the police cooperation, the cooperation of diplomatic academies, cooperation in European programmes, university cooperation, scholarships, cultural cooperation, health, business forum, civil protection, political consultations. For all this, I can analyse where we've come for each. For example, I can mention, for example, the upgrading of the Florina - Monastery rail link, that there is recently a new notice for the assignment of the project. The competition is in progress, with the aim of placing the line on the market at the end of 2018. The same for police cooperation, the same for the cooperation of diplomatic academies. In other words, I can inform you and give it to you and tell you. I think I don't have time to answer that. The ILOs aim to establish a climate of mutual trust and strengthen cooperation, and we believe that this will also facilitate efforts to achieve a sustainable, mutually acceptable solution to the common theme of the name. Of course, for this to happen, the leadership in Skopje needs to show political will, determination and a genuine compromise. We will continue to work systematically on the development of a sustainable, definitive and mutually acceptable solution to the issue of the name, in the context of the negotiations under the auspices of the United Nations. You know that the denomination has a regional and international dimension. We believe that this country and especially the government, despite its statements, have sufficient time to go along with the fact that the governments of the former Gruevski were particularly negative in this area. We have responded very strongly to them. The presence of the Consul General in Toronto in an event has emerged sharply, even causing the Macedonian Foreign Minister for the first time to deplore this unacceptable action. Do not forget that yesterday at the meeting that Dimitrov had in relation to the Secretary-General, NATO Deputy, in his official NATO communiqué, he did not only have the name. There were other issues, issues of good administration, issues of good neighbourliness, good relations, issues relating to the rules of law, and of course, it speaks of a multinational society which must also do other efforts, etc. This is the result of a policy that we are doing and which is not just at the level of bilateral relations, but also at the level of international organisations. It is a result of all this, if you like, and yesterday's statement by the Deputy Secretary-General of NATO, which I shall be tabling. [[At this point, the State Secretary, Mr Ioannis Amanatidis, presents for the minutes the statement referred to above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] For the rest, I'll tell you in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u38	Please, Mr Kumucako, you have the floor for three minutes again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u39	Minister, you referred to a statement from me...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u40	In three.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u41	In three statements, I said that I supported others today in those statements.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u42	In the climate of statements.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u43	You made a mistake, Mr. Undersecretary. Read the whole one. I'm saying the atmosphere and the substance. Indeed, I saw Mr Dimitrov and went out of this meeting: that there is a better mood in terms of atmosphere and climate, but an unmoving position on the substance of the name issue, something that remains now. That's what I said then, I'm saying today. With regard to the general effort to strengthen regional stability, no one is opposed. We are all in favour of it, and we also want the neighbouring country's European and Atlantic course to go ahead, but on conditions. Under clear conditions: that good neighbourly relations are fully respected and, of course, mutually acceptable to the issue of the name. This is a stable position of the country, from which I hope you have not moved at all. But now we're going to the Confidence Building Measures, Mr. Undersecretary. I'll tell you a little story. On October 3, 2012, the Greek Government, the Minister at that time, was Mr. Avramopoulos, tabled a proposal to Skopje, a Greek initiative, an understanding plan, with the aim of strengthening the dynamics of the negotiations to resolve the name, that is, with a positive will and a positive sign. I also reply to Mr Avramopoulos' letter on the Minutes and the text of the memorandum submitted by the Greek Government at the time, but above all the Skopje's reply, then it was the Gruevski government. [[At this point Mr Georgios Koumoutsaskos presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The government of Skopje rejected the Greek initiative at that time. He rejected it after a few days. In his reply to the Greek Government, the Skopje Minister, Mr Popovski, says that we cannot agree with this, but that Mr Gruevski - then Prime Minister of Skopje - wants to move forward in building confidence between us. In short, the scepticist side then refused the Greek initiative, aiming to adopt confidence-building measures, which you then adopted. You began to discuss with Government Gruevski, that is, adjusting your policy to what they asked. We had the change of government and we have a more moderate government at least at atmosphere level. So why don't you bring back that plan that the nationalists then rejected to try out the new government, but do you continue exactly what Gruevski sought, namely the Confidence Building Measures that are unclear and ineffective? I, Minister, asked you to tell me what the positive results are, measurable and specifically, which the Minister for Foreign Affairs spoke about. I don't have that answer. I'd like to have it once and see how we go. The purpose is common. The strategic objective is common. However, the regular actions of the government, in our view, do not serve the common objective, namely the resolution of the name name in a mutually acceptable way, sooner or later, the integration of Skopje into the Euro-Atlantic institutions and the consolidation of stability in the region. That's the strategic objective. On a regular basis, however, I believe that your policy does not serve this Greek objective, because it enables Skopje to make a public relations policy, which will ultimately be exploited by the Macedonian government, but also by partners and allies to press the Greek side. Indeed, after the German elections, with the participation of the Greens and the Liberals - it seems - in the coalition government, that you expect strong, greater pressure, because both the Liberals and the Greens have very specific views on the scepticism and you will see that very soon the Greek side will be under new pressure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u44	Thank you. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u45	Mr. Kumucaco, what I hear is unprecedented, and I hope I don't understand it well. The confidence-building measures I told you this was a Greek initiative. However, because you mentioned - and I hold it as a positive one - that the strategic objective is common, which means that there is an agreement here, you disagree on the tactics and, in other words, believe that confidence-building measures help Macedonia in general.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u46	There's a lot of positive speeches.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u47	I see. I say again that you may say that, but in the statements you say some different things. That's not my point. My point is, if you like, societies or peoples. I'll give it to you, I'll give it to you, because if I mention the positive results, I want a quarter to talk. There are good results to our side too. There remains, of course, rhetoric and this political mood of change, at least in terms of reasons, to take place. Obviously, we expect that. However, you will allow me to tell you two - three thoughts on the issues you mentioned. I told you in my prototype that the Zafe government has a long way to go, especially because there is a certain past. We strongly denounced the incisive tendencies, so that Macedonian Foreign Minister should also be forced to withdraw to order, if you like, this consul. We have made it clear both the Greek Government and the Minister for Foreign Affairs at bilateral and international level - I stress this because it has a regional and international dimension - and our partners in the European Union and NATO and the UN Secretary-General, Mr Gutiéres, and his staff, Mr Nimic, that the effective and practical response to the phenomena of incorporation and rehabilitation on the part of Macedonia is a key prerequisite both for establishing genuine good neighbourly relations, which are inextricably linked to reaching a solution to the name - as we have said, is a mutually acceptable name of erga ones - and for promoting the European and Euro-Atlantic path of the neighbour. That is why you have seen that it is not just the name, it is other rules that this country must satisfy. Don't just stand there.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u48	Bucharest's decision was the name.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u49	Yeah, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u50	I don't disagree. The decision in Bucharest was the name.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u51	I have Bucharest's decision, I know. We have a constant vigilance, Mr Kumucako, to best deal with the whole spectrum with our northern neighbour, based on international legitimacy, our national interests and the active promotion of our policy in the region. As you know, the country's foreign policy is being formulated with the aim of ensuring our national interests as effectively as possible, so that open issues, anachronism, unequal claims and inconveniences of the past are properly overcome. I would like to close here, saying that Greece seeks to consolidate a genuinely friendly and mutually beneficial relationship of sincere cooperation with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. You said about the negotiations and the documents of Mr Avramopoulos, etc. Look: The Greek Government is very well aware of what has been done in the negotiations when they were specific ministers. For reasons, if you want, which do not facilitate our country, we will not mention them, but I would like you not to move our fingers on tactical issues, because there is a prehistoric history about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u52	Don't emit too much optimism!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Minister. The Secretary-General of the Government, Mr Kalogerou, knows in the House that the fifth under No. 1510/19-9-2017, a topical question for the first cycle of the H' Vice-President of the Parliament and M.Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Kammenos to the Minister for Culture and Sport, concerning archaeological delays and the loss of revenue in the metro of Thessaloniki, will not be discussed due to the absence of the relevant Minister abroad. The sixth question under number 1519/21-9-2017 is the first-round question of the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament and of the Athens Parliament. Spyridon Lykoudis, Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "The prospect of restoring the historic building of Ernesto Tsiller and the reopening of films "Atticon" and "Apollos", will not be discussed due to the absence of the relevant Minister abroad. Also, the seventh question under number 1517/2017, first question by MP I of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "For deadlocks in the functioning of children's stations, thousands of children excluded from these structures will not be discussed due to lack of competence. The Ministry responsible is the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity. The first under No. 1522/25-9-2017 topical question of the first cycle of the Parliamentary Corinth of the Radical Left Coalition, Maria Thaleritis, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on "Protection of OTA workers and respect for health and safety rules" will not be discussed due to a workload of the Minister. The second question under number 1524/25-9-2017, the first-round question of the Parliamentary Serres of New Democracy, Mr. Fotinis Arabatzis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: ‘Restoration of the income loss of the fishermen of Saronicos’, will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr. Apostolou, who will be in Kavala, at the meeting of the 2nd Monitoring Committee on the Operational Programme for Fisheries. The fourth under number 1518/20-9-2017 topical question for the first cycle of the Greek Communist Party, Sakis Bardalis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Reimbursements of the fireflying oil producers, farmers and beekeepers of Thassos", will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr Apostolos, who will be in Kavala, at the meeting of the 2nd Monitoring Committee for the Operational Programme for Fisheries. Also, the third, with number 1530/26-9-2017, timely question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMARK Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: ‘Increasing the financing of the measure “Installation of Young Farmers” in order not to remain out of any young person wishing to deal with agricultural production, a fair examination of objections’, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Apostolos, who will be in Kavala, at the meeting of the 2nd Monitoring Committee on the Operational Programme for Fisheries. The first question with number 7260/14-7-2017 question of the circle of references and questions by the MP for the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Unjusted young farmers of Elias due to their exclusion from Measure 6.1 "Installation of Young Farmers" of the 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme (PAA)" will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr.Apostolos, who will be in Kavala, at the meeting of the 2nd Monitoring Committee of the Operational Programme for Fisheries. Also, the third, with number 1512/20-9-2017, timely question of the first cycle of the MP of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.MAR.Michael Jellori to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The creation of three new toll stations on the Promahona - Serres - Port of Thessaloniki is disastrous for the Prefecture of Serres", will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport Mr. Spirtzi, who will be on a domestic journey for service. The first, with number 1523/25-9-2017, topical question by MP Chios of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Andreas Michaelidis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Completion of decorating and fenced area at Chios airport and building the extension of the Christos road", will not be discussed due to the obstruction of Minister of Infrastructure and Transport Mr. Spirtzi, who will be on a domestic journey for service reasons. The fifth under number 1532/26-9-2017 topical question by MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Stavros Tassos to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, concerning immediate compensation for seismopathic damages and compensation for damages in Lesvos, will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport Mr. Spirtzi, who will be on a domestic journey for service reasons. We continue with the fourth under No 1531/26-9-2017 topical question of the second question of the Achaias MP of the Communist Party of Greece, Karathanasopoulos, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on "Problems of Workers at the Hellenic Statistical Authority - ELSTAT". The State Secretary for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity will answer Mr. Petropoulos. Please, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u54	Thank you very much, Mr President. The topical and urgent debate is one of the most comprehensive aspects of the labour market. To be fair, it is not the result of today's government policy. The current government has continued the policy of the former governments and is further speeding up the liberalisation of the labour market. It is not about a private enterprise, it is not about the public. It concerns a service of the wider state sector, ELSTAT. There are workers employed in the collection of statistical material, they cover the fixed needs of the service and the service is considered as private partners. In fact, it is enough for the unprecedented one to blackmail them on the substance, in order to be able to carry out their work, to sign a responsible statement that they do not regard themselves as a dependant job. These workers are still unpaid in 2017, and of course they work uninsured. With the new reversals in the insurance system, scenarios are being handled that of these poor incomes they have, they must pay their insurance contributions, which may be up to 30%. You can understand the situation that is being shaped through this process. ELSTAT, of course, is not the only phenomenon. Such phenomena also exist in other public and general public services, but it opens the way for private businesses when we resort to such regulations clearly anti-competitively. In this respect, therefore, these workers cannot be uninsured, nor can they be recognised as providing a job, and much more so that in the past the new President of ELSTAT had recognised here in the House following a question I had asked him at a hearing of bodies that we had, that this regime is not acceptable. However, this scheme is still in force and the situation of these workers is even worsening. The specific questions we raise, Minister, are what measures the government will take to immediately abolish their duties. Secondly, to treat these workers with insurance and taxation as employees, ELSTAT should impose their insurance and not workers through reductions in the poor wages they have and, of course, stop this smuggling regime so that these workers can be hired on an indefinite basis in ELSTAT's contracts with total insurance and labour rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u55	The State Secretary, Mr Petropoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you raised these matters again with another question from you on 13 March. It's been six months since. I told you that under the Social Security Act in no case did we create declassification conditions. It does not result from any provision of our social security law such as this that employers can be able to do so. ELSTAT has been in existence for many years now and has always exploited workforces, employees. I will see, since you put it the way you put it and there is a previous commitment from the President of ELSTAT, much more specifically what is happening and creating this problem of not paying insurance contributions to the employees of ELSTAT. Of course, the time and way in which work is to be provided determine the characteristics of work and, if it is under the authority of the employer, it is also known in the theory of labour law, but the case law has specified them much more specifically. I repeat, however, in a categorical way that the reference to the obligation to pay contributions for acquisitions or any other evidence of expenditure is intended: not to escape social security revenue through a way of classification as a proof of expenditure, of service benefits, which is not expenditure on businesses, but is, in fact, the provision of services and is not related to conditional work. Under no circumstances is it possible for employers to identify the job independently, which has dependent elements. I have to say to you - and this is our standard practice and mandate to EKKA today - that where employment is being captured with such characteristics and it appears as proof of expenditure on a acquisition title, rather than being the employed person normally as an employed person, fines and surcharges are imposed where this is done. This has not changed and we have no intention of changing it. There is no such fear and there should be no such concern about the provision of the law to impose contributions where it fictitiously appeared as expenditure, which was, in fact, a payroll to free professionals - that was the purpose - or to business executives, which part, for tax and avoidance purposes, later appeared to be an expense, while it was a wage. That was the purpose of the provision, and if something else really happens, I would be happy to accept your proposals in this regard, in order to improve any aspects which may be used for other purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u57	Please, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor again for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u58	It is not a new phenomenon, Minister, and it is a surprise that you are surprised at the status of ELSTAT with regard to a number of ELSTAT workers. We had already made this clear in the past - we had also denounced it on your own state of affairs, namely, the Government of SYRIZA - ANEL - and last year, respectively, by denouncing this unacceptablely responsible statement that ELSTAT asked to sign by extorting workers. So, it's not something new that suddenly appeared. In this respect, therefore, this issue should have been dealt with. The assurances really do, we would like them to be implemented immediately, since they exist - as you have said - but the development of things so far shows other things. On a visit that these workers had made and met with the Secretary General of the Ministry of Social Security, the answer they received was: "From the moment you are paid with proof of acquisition title expenses, insurance contributions are charged to you," he says. "It is clean and we will look for them, based on your tax statement. The law is clean, we have nothing to change." ELSTAT claims to employees that there is no ministerial decision, which is why it says "I delay to pay you as well", because there is no ministerial decision on what insurance is applicable to you" and at the moment it is a ball between the Ministry's services and ELSTAT. From this point of view, I accept what you said, that, of course, your intention was to reveal such phenomena, not to take money from the insurance funds, but the question is who will pay them. Will the real employer or the workers pay them, further reducing their poor wages? This is the essence of the question, Minister, because the process and evolution of things with the blocks and in a number of other categories of these flexible forms of work show the essence of the question, namely that employers are trying, in every way, to limit this, which is called unscientificly non-wage labour costs, that is, insurance contributions, even further reducing their participation, and that is what the 'anti-insurance' law, as we have described as. Therefore, from this point of view, because it is just a chronic process involving the service of the wider public sector, this unacceptable regime cannot exist. It is up to your Ministry to change this regime and be treated as employees. Of course, the next step, which needs to be taken, is precisely to sign contracts, since they cover fixed needs, because these workers are not sporadicly exploited, but are constantly exploited, they collect statistics. Sign indefinite contracts with full employment and insurance rights. We are waiting for a rapid response to this issue, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u59	Thank you. Mr. Petersburg, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u60	Mr Karathanassopoulos, in order to avoid any thought that I will try to escape your points of view, I will say first of all that if we have to make legislation in order to cover this issue, we will do so. We will soon do so in order to have legislation to clarify possible aspects, which create difficulties in applying the provision of Law No4387 and any issues relating to labour legislation. We'll do it. I should like to explain, however, that, as I have already said on this matter in the House, conditional work has always been and will always be dependent on work and the employer, who dares to deal with the employee as a so-called free worker, will have the consequences. I have said so very clearly, and this has been addressed by the audit bodies of the Single Social Security Agency. I'll see what you're talking about. Indeed, I will see this after your timely question very specifically and I will go into legislation, if necessary, to deal with this issue. However, the variety of economic life and activity of people is in no way solved by a provision of law and this has always been the case. Either way, these economic issues can't be limited to one provision. For example - I will tell you because I was telling you yesterday and I was told by colleagues not to say it - there are cases of students who want to fill in a pocket, distribute brochures for half an hour or an hour or have another activity. They want this, but they cannot be subject to a social security system that meets this need. Many times they don't want it, either, for various reasons. What are you going to do? That's the thought. We are concerned, in particular, about how to deal with such cases, which do not have these elements, which are specific to dependent work, the way in which one claims employment, which has the characteristics of the duration, all that one demands.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u61	Except we don't have a situation like this here. We have responsible declarations here, which must be signed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u62	That makes no sense. No one can be forced to something that's not legal. No one can...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u63	They're asking for it legally.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u64	I'll see. I told you I'd see it. No one is forced and cannot be forced to agree on something that is not legal. We know that any agreement that violates labour law rules is invalid anyway. So I'll see. I told you what concerns me most of all in implementing this employment rule. That is where I would really like your agreement, that there are some aspects of this kind, which you cannot introduce systematically into a rule. I'm saying this in good faith. The central issue, therefore, will indeed be seen and possibly need legislation and we will do so, to the extent that this needs to be done. We'll do it soon. I am committed to this and at the moment to this future initiative immediately, not once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u65	Will the second item be debated under No 5958/576/30-05-2017 question and application for the submission of documents from the reporting and questions of the Independent MEP Mr. Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the subject: "Are alternatives or no alternatives to avoid a new reduction in pension expenditure by the latest Law 4472/2017?" The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr Petropoulos. Please, Mr. Carras, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, when the government introduced the so-called 'insurance reform', the well-known Katorugalou law, it began to be apparent that by distinguishing pensions to old and new, the revision, the difference resulting from the old calculation was called a personal difference. And the new pensions given, which were awarded, if and if they are awarded - because, as far as I know, no pensions have been granted after May 2016, because decisions are expected, functions are expected, you may be wrong, you will fix me - this personal difference, which has been given half of it and temporarily. What happened to that? It concluded that there was now the possibility of new cuts, in the easiest way. These new cuts came with Law 4472, when personal disparity and family allowances began to be reduced, and at the same time, the personal differences in new pensions began to arise. According to the General Accounting Office of the State, the State would save around EUR 2,200,000 in 2019, EUR 2,300,000 in 2020, EUR 2,500,000 in 2021, in the three-year period, which joined the medium-term strategic planning programme. The money that was deducted from the pension system obviously existed because they are available to serve a primary surplus. My question is, therefore, specifically and is this: is the government, instead of going to cut pensions and, in particular, personal differences and family allowances, studying what would happen if they were to be in the circulation of money, what financial revenues, which would result from the circulation of these two and a half billion a year multiplier? For when I save a hundred euros and spend them, the next one to receive my income of a hundred euros will also be taxed and he goes further and a hundred euros will be a thousand euros on the way. My questions are, Mr President: has the government studied alternatives to cuts? How, through the continuation of the allocation of these resources, would it benefit, by direct and indirect taxation, to meet the needs of interest? The second question is whether it was studied, if it were taken into account, whether it asked for studies with economic data, which would prove that this cut was a one-way path. These are the two main questions, Minister. You understand that I then asked my question and the evidence you might have had.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u67	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Carras, in the detailed debate which took place on Monday, on the occasion of a topical question, all the elements were fully developed, which reveal the problem in social security. Obviously, you will know that there is a Memorandum of Understanding, but there is also a general obligation for the country to be in some form of budgetary policy, as these frameworks are identified for the Eurozone countries. However, from the commitment of the Memorandum, it has already been established that pension expenditure may not exceed 2.5% of GDP in relation to GDP in 2009 and that continuously until 2016. For this reason, with Law 3863, which became known as the Loverdus Act, which has never been implemented - and it has not been implemented, because, while the law itself ensured approximately two laws, Law 3845/2010 and Law 3843/2010, 2.5 billion spending reductions - in 2011 had to be taken on new measures of 1.6 billion euros. Thereafter, four laws were adopted and other reduction measures were taken. And while pension expenditure in 2009 was about 32.5 billion euros, i.e. 13.72% of GDP, in 2015 that we committed the government, it had reached 30.218 billion euros, less pension expenditure, but with a higher percentage of GDP, exceeds 17%. So we were already outside the framework, to which the country had committed itself, on the basis of the memorandum, because it had to be 16.2% of GDP expenditure ceiling, and so we had this nightmare of new reductions again. We have created a new social security system on another basis, with uniform rules, where we avoid these risks. And we said to keep the personal difference, where the higher pensions actually occurred. With No 4472/2017, we agreed to have 1.8 billion cuts in expenditure, but - as you will remember, and we have analysed it many times - it comes within our policies to strengthen our social structures and social choices, in terms of weak strata. These 1.8 billion are being analysed in measures which, once this expenditure has been reduced, will be attributed in the following ways: by reducing the pharmaceutical costs of the groups affected, by reducing the tax rate from 22% to 20% in natural persons, by 29% in 26% in companies, by subsidising the rent of some 600 million, by subsidising children, by raising the number of 260 million, which will be given with emphasis on the first and second children - most of them, by strengthening school-leavings, increasing the number of children's stations, where some fifty thousand children will be able to accommodate children's stations today. It is a series of measures which we have announced and which we have before us to implement in order to balance this situation. For what we have earned with the reduction in pension expenditure in this category, we do not give it for the debt. It comes within society for changing structures, based on support for society in another perspective. And a part of it is also transferred for public investment. They're familiar. Indeed, they have been analysed on several occasions in this Chamber. So it is not right to say that we have taken pension reduction measures to cover debt obligations. Thank you and I will return to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u69	Thank you very much, too. Mr. Karras has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, the reduction in pension costs is horizontal in all respects. The social benefits to which you referred, the equivalent possible measures, concern, if I am not mistaken, two issues: firstly, that the surplus of 3.5% has been achieved in order to serve the interest on the loans - that is to say in the medium term in 2017-2021 - and the 1.8 billion you mentioned, Minister, relate to an additional amount, in addition to the cuts, if it comes from the state of the economy. Irrespective of this, however, the answer I received in my question was that it was a one-way road and you did not, supposedly, have alternatives. May I suggest an alternative, Minister? I will propose one to you today to see that you have had alternatives. The memorandum and the European Union leave as an internal issue the level of income tax in Greece. You did something else with the same law, Law 4472/2017, you have done not only the pension cuts, you have reduced the tax free from 2019 of those pensioners, those small-professionals, workers, to give additional revenue to the Treasury. I am now coming to point out something. When resources are removed from the economy, it is a basic principle of the economy that there is a recession. In fact, the Parliamentary Budget Office also says in the 2016 Report: “The removal of resources from the income cycle explains the recession”. So you've created a recession. And since you have created a recession, both through cuts and through tax reduction, it is doubtful now whether the figures to which you refer will be achieved. You yourself confessed, Minister, that there is a commitment by 2060, because that will perhaps be the last instalment of the loan, unless there are new loans, which I do not know when they will be due. I do not want to remember for the hundreds of years 1893-1987, where the monopoly ended. It has no value in our conversation. To sum up, therefore, and not to get any further away, I would like to raise my question, because I consider it unanswered. In order not to raise the issue of tax relief, on the question of whether these EUR 2.5 billion a year were to be spent without cuts on consumer spending or savings costs - although I believe that they would all be consumer, for the reason that pensioners today have limited incomes, are few those who may have from other sources - would not pay a VAT on consumer expenditure? Wouldn't they pay income tax from the one who would be the seller? Would the seller not pay to his supplier an extra VAT and the supplier an extra income tax? That is my question, Minister, to the government. It is to see and understand the House whether, instead of the cuts the government sees as a one-way, there was the possibility of the same money, which is available in the medium term and which are deducted from social security, they paid tax revenue such that we could pay the 3.5% surplus. I shall end with this, because this is where a major issue arises. I am addressing you, Minister, and in your capacity as a valid worker. Was there a service of general interest, in order to deal with past and case law? Has the general interest been served, with horizontal cuts, or will budgetary and liabilities be served? Do not answer what the Council of State has said. I know the decisions, I know how it's placed. Or was the general interest served by remaining resources, so that we would not go to further recession in the economy? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u71	Thank you too, Mr. Carras. Mr. Petersburg, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u72	Mr. Carras, so that wrong titles don't come out,
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u73	I didn't try wrong titles.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u74	...you should know - because to ask you, he goes on to say that you have studied the issues - that it has a depth of fifty years each study, in accordance with the implementation of the relevant Directives of the European Union. Any study of the insurance system must have a depth of fifty years. Therefore, in 2060, because the relative commitment of 2.5% to GDP in 2010 was made in relation to 2009, it is just fifty years. That's nothing else. Secondly, the cut is not horizontal. It is an adjustment to the level of pension under the rules of Law No.4387/2016 and to the extent that difference arises - because it does not occur everywhere and does not arise for all pensioners, but indeed results in high incomes - when you were a Member of the Union of the Centre, you said here that the pensions that were high should go down.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u75	I personally don't. Don't blame me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u76	I say, when you were a member of the Central Association. That's when you were. Now you're not. You say more. I just remind you of what this is all about. I am not saying that these pensions are high, but, to speak with one responsibility in this Chamber, we need to know what we are talking about at least. They're not horizontal cuts. It is the pension that each person would receive on the basis of Law No.4387 and will in no case exceed 18% of the pension paid if the pension is much longer and there should be a greater reduction in the pension. So there will be pensions that will also increase, not most, but there will be. These are the low ones that will, in fact, improve. There will be an increase in pensions which were lost in successive insurance because the time has not been filled. As you might have seen, since you came here to ask me, in our relevant circular issued on Tuesday, any amount paid by any insured person, any social security institution, to the various social security funds, will be calculated for his pension. So lost time and money that had been paid and never been calculated, to those who have already been retired, will be included in the calculation and will arise - in some cases, I am very clear - even increases.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u77	Do you have the rate of increase?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u78	Of course we do. Mr. Carras, please. I answer with responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u79	Let's hear it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u80	Mr. Carras, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u81	Because you don't sound, let me at least, since you're asking, learn one truth too, because what they hear makes sense to drive them crazy. Again, there is no 18% horizontal haircut. You said it twice. That's a bad thing to say. Be responsible and say what happens.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u82	Are you questioning my responsibility, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u83	Don't hold a dialogue, Mr. Carras.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u84	Stop offering misinformation arguments that affect...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u85	Don't blame me for misinformation, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u86	Mr. Carras, lower the tension a little. Another time you say what's going on, so I don't want to tell you what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u87	Minister, I'm going to interrupt you to lower the spirits.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u88	I have no objections, but I keep listening...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u89	In the House, dialogue is being held through the Bureau. Because, if there is a direct dialogue, it is a television dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u90	You're right, I'm sorry. I don't do it. However, because I keep saying what I am saying and now that there is no 18% horizontal cut, and here Members are coming as if they never heard it, as if they were not able to read, as if they were not able to understand, I am obliged to say it again. Because tomorrow I'll see titles, together with our fellow citizens, who'll say a horizontal 18% cut. Finally, stop what is being done, hit the public social security system and get out the sirens that say "go away, don't pay, it doesn't make any sense". That is what I hear, Mr President. I don't know if you guys don't hear it, but that's what I hear they're going through to society. And I remember Sakis Karagiorgas, who said "not to eat from the bread of our children" and was before 1980, in 1975. It's been so many years. What I'm saying is to strengthen the social state, put a brake on that prick that we had. We are doing so and we are trying to build prospects for a solidarity society. We are trying to provide funds and transfer funds, because 25% of the tax revenue goes to pensions. 25% of taxation is too much to keep it that way. Unfortunately - I said it before and that is what matters - while pension expenditure has decreased with the successive reductions, expenditure has increased in relation to GDP. This cannot continue in this way, and we cannot keep Greece on a development path, because these are the limits and frameworks that we must observe, unless we ensure the country's production base. We have transferred funds to structures that strengthen society, they put another perspective in this solidarity society that we want. This society we want, for this society the Greek people have supported us, it will continue to strengthen. So when 55% of social expenditure goes only to pensions, we thought and said that it is right to transfer funds to other directions, to medical care, because this will be taken by the pensioners who are low. We are doing a redistribution so that we can strengthen the low social strata. And that will happen when this adjustment comes, saving part of this pension expenditure, to channel it to children who have to have nurseries, to medicines that have to be reduced as expenditure for those who cannot, to strengthen low incomes by reducing HISPIA. These are the government's commitments. And when this is done in 2019 - because it is not for now and no reduction has occurred now - then they will be accompanied by such measures. Of course, we must achieve the goals that we have before us and we must all look at how to achieve this. These are the measures that we are doing and have not taken to put in the black debt hole by reducing pensions, which has happened five times in the past five years. That's my answer. And we all have to understand that, so that we can support it and achieve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u91	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u92	Now I have to say, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u93	Mr Carras, this procedure is not provided for under the Rules of Procedure. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-28-S1-commons.u94	With the agreement of the House at 11.06 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 29 September 2017, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: (a) the topical and urgent debate and (b) the debate on Question No 33/23/27-6-2017, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
