ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 21-11-2017, the LV's minutes of the LV' meeting of Tuesday, 21 November 2017, with regard to the vote on all draft laws of the Ministry of Finance. Consolidation of the State’s Report, financial year 2015 and b. Consolidation of the State’s Balance Sheet, financial year 2015.’]] Ladies and gentlemen, before entering the topical and urgent debate, I have the honour of announcing to the House the topical and urgent debate on Friday 24 November 2017, as well as on Friday 17 November 2017. A. Current Questions of Friday 24 November 2017. (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under No 309/17-11-2017, a topical question by MP II Athens, New Democracy, Anna - Michel Asmakopoulou, Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on "Measures to prevent and combat cyber attacks". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 306/16-11-2017 topical question by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Economy and Development on the subject: "Integration of a project II phase of expansion of a telecommunications distribution network Megalopolis Arcadia". (Rule 130(2) and (3) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. Question No 310/17-11-2017 by MP Achaias, New Democracy Mr Andreas Katsaniotis, Minister for Migration Policy, on the subject: Limani Patras - "The New Idomenis". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 299/14-11-2017 of the Independent MEP Mr. Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Economy and Development on the subject: "The need to extend the validity of the legal decision on "superior natural persons", which limits the original debt and in favour of the contributors and guarantors". This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to information and communication technology equipment and services of the ‘Migration and home affairs’ policy area of the (Rule 130(2) and (3) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 263/10-11-2017 by MP Halkidiki of New Democracy Mr. Georgios Vagionas to the Minister of Economy and Development on the subject: "The threat of a bandage for thousands of bakerys". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 260/10-11-2017 topical question by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on "Financing from PPC S.A." the project to improve the road Pournaria - Mr. (Rule 130(2) and (3) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 264/10-11-2017 by MP Kilkis of the New Democracy Mr Georgios Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the subject: “No personal needs for firewood in violation of the law”. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 253/7-11-2017 by Independent MEP Mr.Nikolaos Michou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the subject: "PPC cuts off the current in the Karystia Evia". 3. Under No 242-06-11-2017, a topical question by MP Evros of the New Democracy, Anastasios Prize to the Minister of Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, on the subject: "The new maritime Egnatia" marks the development and progress of Evros, Samothraki and Thrace. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We are starting the debate with the third under number 295/14-11-2017, a topical first-cycle question (B) by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Direct restoration of the floods that have occurred in the Prefecture of Chania". Mr Skourletis will answer the timely question. Please, Mr. Synthraki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the catastrophic floods in Chania took place on October 26th in areas such as Cladisos River, Bamvakopoulou, Nea Chora, Saint Apostles, Darazos Kydonia, Kalamaki, Agia Marina, Platanias, Kolymbari, almost all of the old national road and villages of the Municipality of Apokoronos and the Municipality of Platania. Damage to building infrastructure, housing, professional roofs and goods are huge. SYRIZA - ANEL Government, like the previous governments, the Region of Crete and the relevant state bodies, have enormous responsibility, I would say criminal. You knew there would be flooding phenomena and you did nothing to prevent this crime and from pure luck we did not grieve victims there, as unfortunately we mourned here in Attica. The question, Minister, after a month, is whether and how practically will the inhabitants of these regions be supported, whether there will be immediate measures to alleviate and restore the damage and aid for the needs of the affected people. That should have been your first concern. The catastrophic floods took place on 26 October. You didn't. In particular, we have to ask you: Firstly, the damage record has been completed and what are the conclusions on the size of the disaster and how is the extent of the destruction being estimated in money in dwellings, professional roofs, merchandise and others? Secondly, what immediate measures do you intend to take in order to compensate residents and professionals in the region to 100% of the total damage to the restoration of homes and professional dwellings, as well as to goods, equipment, since in many cases affected each delay creates an obstacle to survival? Residents and professionals demand that there be a ‘freezing’ of debts to taxi, to the OAU, to banks without surcharges and interest for the affected, that any confiscation procedures, exemption from municipal fees for the affected, no interruption of water, electricity, the telephone to labour-civil families, should be stopped immediately. The measures announced by the government the other day do not cover compensation for the victims of 100% of the losses suffered in houses and shops, while the recourse to lending is likely to raise issues, since the banks do not give much more interest. There is one question and you can answer it: How can we guarantee the provision of a loan and, indeed, the banks' interest? In addition to all others, we have experience of promises and declarations of funds, which are either not given or given 'cut'. Thirdly, to conclude, what emergency grant measures to the affected municipalities will be taken to include in the technical programmes and in the budgets of 2018 projects of substantial flood protection, opening of roads and rafts? The services of the Municipality of Chania and Platania have estimated damage to cost EUR 1 million and EUR 2.5 million respectively. We know that you have given the Municipality of Platania 300,000 euros, but in no case does it cover all the damage.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u3	Please, Mr. Synatiakis, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u5	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Unfortunately, the density of the flooding phenomena has enabled us now to talk about having this know-how to deal with such situations. I say this because these regions were not only affected on the 26th of last month, but - if I remember correctly - and last March we again had strong weather phenomena, which led to similar flooding. In particular, for the Ministry of Interior, for which I also have the political responsibility, both for the Municipality of Chania and for the Municipality of Platania and for the Municipality of Apokoronou Chania, the amount of EUR 2,093,000 has been allocated in 2017 through the CFPs for investment projects, which are most likely to be directed towards flood protection. Furthermore, the basis for exceptional aid from theories has not only been EUR 300,000, which has been a record time, and one must recognise that. It is not the only case that the Ministry of Interior has acted immediately. Ask the overwhelming majority, if not 100%, of the municipalities, which - in the last year - faced such natural disasters, if the Minister of Interior's response was within a week - and everyone recognizes that - and, in fact, without eligibility criteria, in other words, political preferences. This practice has never been seen by local government. They all confess. You're just giving me the opportunity to say it on the occasion of your timely question. The Municipality of Platania, then, last March, had received the sum of 170,000 euros, again to deal with such phenomena and the Municipality of Apokoronou last March 90,000 euros. From there on, the treatment procedures are standardised, and the issue is how quickly they are activated. I can inform you that it was immediately the establishment of mixed municipal and regional workshops to register on the basis of claims for losses to businesses or dwellings. From that point on, compensation procedures are followed through the joint ministerial decisions of the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of Finance. So I think that what you mentioned in your question - and you have reiterated now - is not the case. From there on, a very big debate is taking place on the intensity of weather. I am surprised that many aspects of climate change have been underestimated in the public speech in recent years. It's not an alibi, it's a reality. Anyone who has an elementary scientific approach to matters will see it. Whoever just speaks to local residents will tell you that these phenomena have been seen for 20 years, and they now appear two or three times a year. He's got his explanation. We'll talk about it some other time. From there on, I think we are faced with time-consuming responsibilities, which are shared at all levels of the state, and that is what I believe has emerged from the recent tragedy of Mandra. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, too. Here you go, Mr. Synthraki, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, you did not really answer this question, because the questions are very specific and correct. Since there has been some time since the disasters, you have not even given us a picture of what comes from the recording you have done. Of course, you have given - and I have told you - EUR 300,000 for some of the immediate needs of the Municipality of Platania. The cost is EUR 2.5 million. Why? Because there are loose ends from the previous theorem, in January 2017, which, as you said, you have given a sum, but it does not cover all the needs and damage suffered by that municipality, as it does in Chania. So, you crumbs here, too. You have been disturbed about the 'polluteria'. It's not just oligopoly, it's not a technocratic problem. You are trying to cover up your responsibilities, focusing the disasters on extreme weather and climate change, on the poor world, who built a house to put his head underneath, since no city plans have ever been developed in this country, no one has ever been interested in the people's roof. The urban state has never financed the organisation, the planning of the execution of anti-military projects, as well as for earthquake shielding, because such projects are ineligible by the European Union. A single criterion is set for eligibility: the profitability of capital. And you're diligently hiding that. There are streams based, grounded, built by business and hotel units, rural roads unopened, wells shut or other works that start and are semi-finished. For example, I will pass on to you what was said at the Municipal Council of Chania: of the two hundred and thirty-eight streams that existed in Chania, today there are only twenty-two. The rest of them are gone, they're stuck, they're built, they've built hotel units. While you were aware of the shortcomings in the anti-military armour of the area and the rampant streams, you did absolutely nothing. And you know when the government knows? Since January 2017, there has been a study by the Ministry of the Environment on the management of flood hazards in the aqueous apartment of Crete and even mentions the Cladisos River, that is, where the damage occurred, that studies have been carried out and projects have been carried out for the flood protection of the city, in the context of the project "Antarctic works in a wider area of Chania" in Genaris, 2017. And in October we had these disasters. Also, rivers and streams are not cleaned. The streams in the Municipality of Platania have occasionally created many problems from overflowing their natural bed. And that's not a new discovery. It also reveals what the plan of the Ministry of the Environment says about this issue, which reads: "There is a lack of works in the Turonite basin in the Platania area. The impurities manufactured are fragmentary and local. There is a continuous rise in residential development in the coastal zone, a shortage of technical projects, a growth of vegetation preventing the estuary, a lack of delimitation of vegetation. The area is vulnerable to flooding.’ And whenever the city goes to open the rivers and streams, the port comes and stops them on the grounds that it's not the city's business. So whose job is it? To clarify whose competence is, in the end, the cleansing of rivers and streams, to end this story - it is the municipality, it is the region? - and be financed respectively. Minister, you realise that it is indeed a question of oligopoly, but it is also a matter of unreserved construction, of tragic shortages and of the lack of government planning, which highlight the anti-grassroots character of capitalist development, which means settlement, arbitrary and dense construction, a mess of hundreds of rhetoric, the lack of a single spatial planning. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. So this is your development, you serve. We cannot serve it and call on the workers not to compromise in any form of crumbs and to follow a path of resistance, disobedience to this policy that applies to their own future and their children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u9	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u10	Mr Colleagues, I think in your reply you have reiterated what I gave to some media, namely the question of devaluing the phenomena of climate change. It's not an alibi. And when you refer to a growth model, you just need to see that the footprint of this growth model, which underestimates the environment and prioritises increasing profitability, is climate change. So I am impressed by this very narrow concept of the global and climate issue, which is in contrast to the rest that you have said in relation to the development model. You come here talking to this government about how the cities were built in this country? I'm sorry, but I don't understand. Solve historical memory? You are smiling, but first of all you should know as a Member of the Greek Parliament that their streams and management are the responsibility of the region and therefore have specific resources available. This also requires a rational decentralisation and strengthening of the role of local government. Of course, I understand that you're being held by a sterile state. You think there should be a single centre, the state, everyone in its service, and everything works in the way you describe, in a different model. I respect that. We disagree. But here the responsibilities are really shared at all levels of public administration and state. Watch out, the worst of all is not that illegal streams have been blocked. Illegality is illegal, looking for and putting in responsibilities. The worst of all is that in a number of cases these choices were legal. There were urban plans on the basis of which they really went and built on the streams, because this was the cheap way, not to see the huge cost of either human cost or disasters, as we now see in a dramatic way next to us, in Mandra and all the rest of Greece, but that in the end this and in close economic terms seems to be the most precise solution to dealing with such situations. Doing after ten, twenty, thirty years, a conflagration task to manage the diversion of an entire torrent is a huge cost than preventing before, having an appropriate urban plan that respects certain things the way they have been captured in nature's own function. There, then, to focus the debate, there to sum up the powers rather than to come and say to this government, which, within the given difficulties, has inherited this chaos in the cities and everywhere and is trying to unravel this bucket by commanding priorities. The sensitivity, the immediate response we have shown to all these phenomena is something that we cannot in any way put aside. We do not think that we have inexhaustible powers, nor can time-consuming crimes, which have been committed in this place, be overcome from one moment to the next. I think, however, that no one can question the attempt to discuss the whole range of problems, not to sketch them up, not to cover them up and look at the real causes of these phenomena, precisely so that we can deal with them and not get back into the same situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, too. We move to the second under number 352/20-11-2017 in the first cycle (A) by MP Laconia of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Leonidas Gregorakos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: "Restoration of disasters by the severe weather phenomena in the Laconia Prefecture and compensation for the affected". Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, thank you very much. Minister, I know you're a man, who's present in the facts, because in the summer we happened to be together in the destructive fire of Kythera. I would therefore like to tell you that in addition to the catastrophic fire in Naples two years ago and the other events that have hit Laconia in recent years, such as the disasters in Gythio, in Mani in summer and in previous years, there has been a continuous and repeated phenomenon in the region of the Municipality of Eurota and in particular in Laconia with catastrophic rain floods. I mentioned at the outset the previous one, Minister, because I know your sensitivity, but I know that this bureaucratic state, while it has been so long, has not been able to meet the needs of the people of the region, with the disasters suffered by the fires and the previous rainfall and flood disasters in this Eurota municipality. At the same time, with the national tragedy that we have experienced in the West Attica, with the loss of these human souls, our fellow humans, our friends and relatives, who have really created a national mourning, and other regions of the country in this particular period have been hit by phenomena destructive, flooding and hailing, which, in particular, their farmers have really destroyed. Especially in the area of the Municipality of Eurota we have a road disaster, we have a destruction of all production in oranges, mandarins, lemons, but far more so we have a great disaster in edible olives and oil olives, which, due to the fact that it is a fertile place, is very great, but it is a great disaster. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Minister, I wanted to say today from you today: because phenomena are being observed, for which you have really paid great attention in the region, and I am very pleased and have to acknowledge that you are present, I would like to say that, despite all your good intentions, there is a delay in the statement of all these damages, because the system, Mr President, is falling every little and little, with the result that the affected local producers cannot declare the damage they have suffered. And that you know has a certain date. After three or four days, the system closes and whoever said, he said. That should not be the case, Minister. I therefore ask you today to assure me that the system will be open and that the actual compensation will be paid, which is great and due to major disasters for the region, particularly the Municipality of Eurota. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to present a report from the Association of Insurance Companies of Greece, which says that in the past twenty years we have had about twenty thousand disasters in Greece and the sum is around 275 million. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Leonidas Gregorakos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would therefore like to say to you and the government and to all of us who have been there in previous years that we need to claim more money. Because the 275 million that this report has been saying, which has been given Greece over the past twenty years, is minimal in terms of the size of the disasters that have been done in Greece. I would like you to have the following: firstly, you can order your services to open up the system so that the disasters, secondly, the tiles that will go to control the disasters go as quickly as possible and, thirdly, the compensation to these farmers, who have been affected and destroyed by all their production, can be granted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u14	Mr President, I would also like to agree with you that in the last two or three years in particular we have been damaged and destroyed by natural phenomena. It is an issue that concerns not only our country, but in particular the European Union, and we need to see how it will be addressed in the context of the debate on climate change. As you can see, the times are not 'now we are discussing, tomorrow we are deciding', especially at European Union level. To continue with the previous one, as far as the damage is concerned, we have already entered the process of reviewing all the insurance framework relating to the ELGA, so that we can also introduce new insurance risks and, of course, see how the ELGA can function in the logic of the compensation of insurance premiums because there are too many difficulties. You referred to the oldest damages. Already in the part concerning the coverage by ELGA, which is where the producers were insured, payments were made. What has started at this point is to gather the information we have already told to everyone, so that we can draw up the relevant dossier, which is known as the PES. That means that this file has gone its way. It will be approved by the European Commission soon, because two years have passed. From there on, of course, we will be planning through state aid so that we can cover the damage. I want to believe that we will not be overdue in the summer, that is, two and a half years to make these payments. And I'm saying that because we can't do this alone. As regards the damage in mid-November, particularly in the Euro Area and Monemvasia, geotechnics have been identified. Some twenty announcements were made and a fortnight deadline was given to submit the statements. I think that the deadline is not over, but, if there are any issues, we are here and giving an extension does not cause us any problems. As you can see, there is a process that starts from the estimates that go especially through the OPEKEPE. Under the ELGA Regulation, this route, especially those who are in insurance, would say that at least in recent years it has been around six to seven months. I can't identify it right now, but that's about time. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] As to whether assessments will be made in good time, we have a well-known problem here. Unfortunately, there is still a problem and I say, unfortunately, because I think that this particular part on the kilometre compensation for geotechnics needs to be addressed. But the needs are already too great. And that is why in the Tripolis store we have taken geotechnics for eight months of employment through the well-known programmes. We believe that we will deal with the estimates in good time. So there is no concern on the part of producers about this process. From that point on, those who do not have the insurance cover will enter the well-known process of PSEA and you realize that that is where we will try as soon as possible to shorten the time. I can't tell you anything else.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u15	Mr. Gregorakos has the floor for his dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I know that you are aware of this, since we have known each other for many years. I have no objections. I want to tell you some practical things. The whole region of Laconia, but above all the two municipalities, Euros and Monemvasias, must receive a direct grant from the region for the destruction of the road network. The Interior Minister was here, too, but he's gone. Secondly, we need to see what is going to happen with all these issues of farmers' insurance contributions, but also HISPIA that farmers must pay immediately. They'll get some money from our own payments. If they were to collect their olives - and their edible and oil - oranges, mandarins and all fruit and vegetables in the Lycosia region would take warm money and could meet their obligations. We are now talking about a delay which, as you have said, may be two years old. So I think we should immediately give these people a hand or suspend their obligations towards these funds. You, the politicians of the government, will see it and you will decide what you are going to do in this area, because in fact the citizens of the Laconia Prefecture had last year the toast which destroyed a large amount of olive oil, olive cultivation, but we also had the incarnation of the Laconia Prefecture because of the weather phenomena and the temperature. All this has gathered and accumulated several obligations of the People's Peoples towards the tax office in the state. They also have obligations toward their children to educate, to take them to school, to universities. There are social obligations, daily obligations. However, we have to deal with this as a whole, because there really are farmers in Laconia, Minister, who have been destroyed by 80%. That's not funny stuff. So, knowing the sensitivity that it sees you, we think you will be subjected to the problem along with your services. I recognise the weakness we had - and you have much more now - with people who cannot go immediately to make assessments. I understand that, but you must also find a solution for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u17	Here, Mr Apostle, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u18	Mr Colleagues, the issue of the displacement of obligations, of debts, is an issue which, as you can see, concerns the Ministry of Finance. We are going to help in this direction, but regional selfgovernment, local government, should also take the initiative. In other words, whether an emergency area is declared to be an emergency area is primarily an initiative and a request from regional and local authorities, which I do not know whether there is one or not here. He hasn't bothered me. If there is - because it is a prerequisite - for us, of course, we will address the Ministry of Finance, since we know that there is a problem. From there on, as far as the formal part is concerned, what has to do with these kinds of arrangements, namely the declaration in an emergency, if any, we will help in this direction. From there on, I will repeat what I have told you all along. We need to see the ELGA as an insurance body, the regulation of which must be reviewed within the existing data. We have already created a working group, but you realise that this group will be able to carry out these proportionate studies, and it will also take time and support. We are calling on you all to contribute to this, so that we can help the rural area.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much. We move on to the debate on the first under number 307/17-11-2017 topical question by Mr Kosanis of the New Democracy MEP Georgios Kasapidis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: 'What is the position of the Greek Government in the ever-enlarged proliferation of the cultivation and movement of mutated agricultural products in the EU?'. Please, Mr. Kasapidis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, you have heard the title of the question I am addressing you today and the Government. Mr President, this is the ninth time I have been returning to the subject since 2010, when this issue was starting to take dimensions, as the time series - drunk, in my view - to release mutants from the European Union since 2003 when we accepted the acceptance of a mutation rate without the necessary labelling of products on the market up to 0.9%. This was also accepted for livestock products from animals or fish reared with mutated feed. There were no later signs of these products. Then we had the case of honey, where honey is not compulsory, when it contains pollen of mutated plants. Finally, we have come to the European Union's decision that each member country should decide whether or not to allow the crops of the mutants in the European soil. Minister, when you were opposition to all of this, you were against it and did well, in my view. I agree and amplify myself. Now, as a government, what is your formality and what do you intend to do to change or shape this environment differently, as it is shaped in the European Union and to prevent further spreading of mutants' cultivation and gradually returning to normal, with zero tolerance to the cultivation of mutants and our country and the European Union? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, the issue of genetically modified organisms is of particular interest to our country, not only because public opinion demands it, but also because there is a need to defend the quality, specificity of Greek products. Our position is clear. In all fora, at all the meetings we say that we are in favour - and we serve - of the total ban, without any exception, on the cultivation of genetically modified organisms throughout Greece. That is why we welcome any initiative in this direction which promotes, in particular, information on the favourable effects of the production of quality products, free of genetically modified organisms, which is why we also agree with the main conclusions of the Vienna International Ministerial Conference. We therefore support the need for rural development, free from genetically modified organisms, especially in countries with a small scale of agricultural structure or with great importance for the production of quality agricultural products, as we are. It is therefore our belief that rural development that is not based on the use of genetically modified organisms is environmentally sound, economically viable and is of great importance for food safety, human and animal health. But, Mr President, by reading your question, you will allow me to help you with my position, because I see that you are in some confusion. I read your question: 'In June 2014, unfortunately' - I repeat, unfortunately - 'with the contribution of the Greek Presidency to the European Union, the Member States have institutionalised the possibility of unilaterally deciding on the cultivation of genetically modified organisms on their territory. Until then, the prohibition decisions taken on the movement and labelling of mutants concerned the European Union as a whole. Since the continued retreat of the European Union to the spread of mutants is contrary to the will of the majority of European and Greek citizens, because this attitude threatens the health of citizens, the environment, traditional sustainable agriculture and our way of life, etc. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Do you, my dear colleague, have this 'happily' or this 'threatening', one, the other, all you say to those who were going to do at the time in the European Commission, namely your party, your former leader, your current President, who, in that Presidency, you know, loaded us not only what you said, but also a lot of other things that have to do with international agreements with third countries, which we are fighting today to ease as much as we can? At some point, that is to say, we must understand that, when there are responsibilities, we must take them and transfer them to others.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u23	Before I give you the floor again, Mr. Kasapidis, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how the House is organised and operated, thirty one students and two educational escorts from the 11th Municipal School of St. Anargyra. Guys, the House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Please, Mr. Kasapidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you too, Minister, for the answer you gave me and the right to return me to your memory and your memory and to all those who hear us that, as I said, it is the ninth time that I have been returning to the subject. And then again it was the hypothetical who reacted to what you said, that under the Greek Presidency the European Union took a step backwards and adopted the decision on the acceptance of the crop or not of genetically modified organisms in each Member State. And then I was stable in my view and today and over time in this matter. So, as a reproach you have put to me, it does not even touch me, because I remain firm in my views, Minister, and in all matters of rural development, including feta, and I have paid this price. I remain faithful to my values and beliefs, not like some others and to the government, possibly you, where some issues have been "golden" for your own reasons. However, as you have seen, I am not opposed to this issue of mutants because it is a matter of life. You put that. I gave you the answer. But I say to you, Minister, that for the past two and a half years, your government has not indicated everything you say, that you are in favour of banning genetically modified organisms. And I will give you an example. Recently, under pressure of circumstances, Ukraine has accepted the cultivation of genetically modified organisms as a condition for lending the country from the International Monetary Fund. We have seen no response from the government to put it as unacceptable at European level, on your own initiative or on the initiative of another minister. Because you are well aware that Greece is importing huge quantities of cereals and other cereals from Ukraine. There it will be not up to 0.9% the mutation rate of these cultivated cereals, but up to 100%. Has there been any provision that this coming of products, through imports into the country, should come under another monitoring regime for the protection, as you said, of the quality of Greek products that accept unfair competition, for the protection of the health of consumers, animals, for the protection of the environment, Minister, from contaminating neighbouring crops gradually from Ukraine, through other countries? Even in our country he can come, because you know very well that pollen can travel many miles, hundreds of miles, with air or some insects. In a few years' time we can see mutation rates within our country on crops and you can renounce your responsibilities for something that you have not done so far. And I'm telling you this example. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, however, I would like to point out that the content of this issue is a major one. I think we are doing well and we are talking about it, and you are here, too, in the question I have put to you. I would like to ask you to pass it on to a higher level. The Prime Minister himself will have to deal with it. And what mistakes have been made, failures of the past, to make all of us together, united, an attempt to correct them in this matter, Minister, which, for me, is really a matter of our lives and our culture. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, too. Please, Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u26	Mr Colleagues, political approaches are not personal policies on such matters in particular, concerning agreements relating to directives. Clearly, therefore, it is your party that signed this agreement, for which you disagree. That must be understood. From there on, then, we, in particular, give too much weight. Because I told you that not only in international fora, not only in alliances - we have already signed an alliance of fifteen specific countries of the European Union - but in every way we will defend, we will prevent any trace of mutated product from entering our country and the European Union. Now, if what you say with Ukraine has happened, you realise that it is a matter that we denounce. From that point on, if we go to see to it that Ukraine gets in or does not enter, you realize that it is something out of hand. Let us make it clear, then, that the view of the European Commission is clear and in this directive, which you have mentioned, there are problems, and this directive in the states that want to defend has - I would say - more opportunities than was the case before. Its only negative effect is that it enables each Member State to do so, while the directive should be that there is a universal ban on the whole of the European Commission to cultivate certain mutants. Let us make it clear, then, that we are struggling at all points, but there is some agreement - a directive which you are all aware of. We cannot say tomorrow morning'return the agreements'. We say this, but there must also be a procedure which will lead to agreements such as can walk and have the agreement of the rest of the peoples. Let us make it clear, however: New Democracy, the coup d'état, having the Presidency of the European Commission, has brought this directive, which you are coming today and which you are complaining about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now proceed to the deletion of questions. The third, with number 355/21-11-2017, top-circuit question (A) by the MP of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Giokas to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the disasters of floods in West Attica and the necessary flood protection in Attica, will not be discussed due to lack of competence. The Secretary-General of the Government, Mr Kalogerou, informs Parliament that it will not be discussed because of lack of competence. The Ministry responsible is the Ministry of Interior. The second question under number 294/13-112017 by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Foreign Minister on the subject: "The position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the so-called transnational agreement with Saudi Arabia" will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Member in question. He'll be on a mission from the House abroad. Also, the first with number 261/10-11-2017 a top-stage question from the MP Drama of New Democracy Mr. Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the issue of the road connection between Drama and Egnatia and the vertical axes, will not be discussed after consultation of the Minister with the MP. The fourth question under number 251/7-11-2017 of the Achaea MP of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the workers at the 'EUROPE' press distribution agency, will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the relevant Minister. It represents the Government at a conference of the International Labour Organisation. The second question under number 304/15-11-2017 by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Culture and Sport on the subject: "The investment in Greek is at risk of being cancelled: 75,000 new jobs and 8,2 billion new jobs. The euro will be lost because of the tricks of the government,” will not be discussed because of the sickness of the relevant Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u28	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. In order for the government to come here to answer, you have to raise a matter for Mr. Kammenos. Otherwise, he's not coming. The entire Group of the European Democratic Alliance has been asking a question for the Greek Government for a month and the government is not answering. I understand Mrs Connordou's obligations with the plays inside and outside Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u31	He's on health grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u32	I'll tell you. Last night at 20 a.m., Mr. President, you are also a doctor. I was informed that Mrs. Connordos was sick. We wish her in passing. But the problem, Mr President, is that this government, when it hears about investment and Greek, is generally ill! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, but, as you can see, the Bureau cannot verify the disease.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u34	Mr President, I too would like to have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u35	Mr. Kyriazidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. After about a year and five postponements, I was informed yesterday that at last the debate on this topical question concerning the linking of Drama - I mean road to Egnatia - was going to take place today. I said: 'Thank God at last after a year we will get some concrete evidence, there will be something more specific on the part of the government.' I have been informed - and I thank the Minister present - that this mission was assigned to him because of a problem that Mr Spirtz had. In the sense that new data and data have emerged, I have been asked for the debate to take place next Thursday. Minister, with particular interest will all the Dragons expect this development. I wish it was positive. That's why we're here, and thank you for taking this position. Please, if you want, say something to let them know, because there is indeed this lasting and great issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u37	Mr. Mavraani, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank you for the question. Indeed, it is a question of a very afflicted construction, but also a study before construction, which, as a whole, the state, I would say, has been inactive for a very long time. As you know, the responsibility for these studies, after some unfinished efforts made, has been assigned to Ennaia Street now since December 2014 and then to a new ministerial decision after the beginning of 2016 etc. My information is that the studies are progressing. In particular, the part concerning the bypassing of Kavala is in the end. Since, however, in the rest of the sections, there is a willingness to find further funds to complete the studies, and perhaps there is a need at some points in the aesthetic forest for a different form, there are some new elements which concern in particular the finding of resources for these studies. That is why the Minister wants to be discussed next week, so that we can provide substantial information to the Iraqi people.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u39	Minister, there is the other part of the drama connection...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u40	Mr. Cryazides, you will tell your question. Now we are not discussing the topical and urgent question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u41	I look forward to the reply of the Minister next Thursday.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u42	So you'll talk about it when it's time to ask. As I said earlier, Mrs Connordou is not present today in the House. Consequently, the second under number 293/13-11-2017 topical first-cycle question (B.) of the MP Drama of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Ms. Kefalidou to the Minister of Culture and Sport on the subject: "Dangerous Museum and Delphi Archaeological Site", will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u43	Mr President, could I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u44	Please, Mrs. Kefalidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u45	Mr President, I would just like to ask the Minister publicly, because it is a question which has been tabled since 3 November and, as you can see, she is now losing her concept of a timely question which is so delayed in answering, and I hope that we will be here next Thursday in order to be able to discuss it, because she is waiting for the whole of the local society. It is a question of Delphi's economy, when the only income for the country's economy has to do with the proper functioning of this museum all the days of the week. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Kefalidou. It will be forwarded by the Bureau what you have said. We move to the third with number 354/21-11-2017 a topical second-cycle question (A) by F Vice-President of Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the grounding of railway lines passing through Larissa. The State Secretary for Infrastructure and Transport will answer Mr Mavragans. Mr. Vice President, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the last fatal accident on the rail network crossing the city of Larissa with a ten-year-old child has been added to a long list of similar accidents that have occurred on this particular rail network in recent years. It also emerges with this tragic event, on the one hand, the enormous risk to the people of the city and, on the other, of course, the time-consuming responsibilities of both the governments and the administrations of the OSE, and of the local administration of I and 2 degrees in the direction of resolving this huge problem that has been stirring up for many years in the city of Larissa. This issue, of course, has been raised, has been claimed in previous years and by local authorities, if you like. However, in the face of this permanent demand for subordination, for example, of railway lines, the answers, whether from the governing or from the administrations of the OSE, were the invoicing of the great economic cost, that is to say, incomprehensible, for example, to carry out this task of subordinating the railway lines. So the questions we ask, Mr Minister, are: when will the grounding of rail lines in the city of Larissa be initiated in respect of the network that passes through the city of Larissa and, secondly, the measures necessary to complete the rail fence, but also all the necessary projects that will facilitate and secure the passage of pedestrians and wheeled vehicles through the rail lines?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u48	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u49	First of all, Mr Papoutsis, it was indeed your duty to bring this matter to the House, since it was human lives, and so we must have it on the agenda in all cases where anything that concerns human life is happening, but in any case, we must also show the truth. One incident, therefore, which concerns a region north of the Larissa railway station is at a point where no crossing exists, no station exists and the lines are fenced. So obviously there's no need for a new fence, because the lines are fenced. So what happened and this little kid went through the lines? He jumped over the fences. He misunderstood, overlooked, quoted, didn't even care about the labels and went on the lines and that's where it happened. So when there is a fence, when there are labels, the state cannot make any other provision, when we are talking about an area that is not within urban fabric, so that you can say that you can do a hundred or eighty or seventy million euros investment to make an investment. The OSCE is, on a regular basis, applying the international safety rules that exist, enclosing - and doing so - its rail network. That's what he did there. He jumped off the kid. He wanted someone to play with his life, and he played. In the case of the second accident at a station this time, at the Mezurlu railway station, to clarify that this station is not a passenger station, there is no gateway to the public. It's a freight station. Anyone's not coming in. The ones who have a job at the freight station are coming in. There are people who guard the station, there are stations dealing with this issue, namely orderlyness within the railway station, freight and not the passenger in Mezurlo. That's probably where that kid came in. He didn't go to the lines. He went and sat on the wagon and touched the electrodes, while there are labels everywhere saying that you shouldn't get close because there are high-voltage shots and he was hit by a photovoltaic bow. So you understand that both in one case and in the other, the provision of the OSE has been, but every provision, as you can understand, Mr Papoutsis, with your social experience, can never be absolute. Even if the other one puts you in a jam, if you want to break it and pass, you'll break it and you'll pass. But on own responsibility. We must humanitarianly take every measure commensurate with the risks that exist in each region and do not cause problems for our fellow humans, but they also want to protect themselves. This is a basic condition.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u50	Please, Mr Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u51	Minister, you sincerely amaz me, either within or out of import. I mean, it's because of the ten-year-old kid who passed the wires because he had wires there, and he went into the rail network. The OSE, the governments, the current government, the Ministry has no responsibility. As far as the measures to be taken are concerned, not only the fence but also the passages should be strengthened, multiplied, so as to facilitate the passage of pedestrians. I said it in my prototype. When the rail network became, the city of Larissa was much smaller than it was today and this network was out of town. Today this network crosses the city from the north to the south, from the north to the south, from the south to the north - as you say - and cuts it in two. It's a solid request, then. If we report the accident, it is because, on the basis of this, the people's, the citizens', the city's players', demand for the railway lines to be subsided. It is a request both on the paper and on the papers, not only the OSE, but also on the previous governments. The Larissans remember very well the occasional visits, even two Prime Ministers, who slugged on the Larissa-Tebbi train and back and promised the subordination of the railway lines and, respectively, the creation of passages, and so many years have not happened. So, then, "the ten-year-old kid who passed the wires is cooking." That is what you say and 'everyone is looking out for.' That's what you say and it's all honey - milk! It is not all honey - milk and those who inform you are misinforming you. What's gonna happen? We raise this issue. We are not making use of this accident, this tragic event which, as I have said in my prototype, is added to so much road vehicles and pedestrians crossing rail lines. How will it be safer, more stable and comfortable to cross the pedestrians? You have to cross and walk the railroads at the same time to find underground passage. Most are abandoned and few. The city has changed, based on housing development. The city's gigantic. That is why the institutions and the residents are calling for the subordination of railway lines to be initiated, and that is what we call on the government to take action of this kind to solve this problem forever. With the grounding of the railway lines immediately - immediately the city is connected and will no longer be cut off by the rail network and all ground areas will be exploited which will result from this grounding in respect of parks, recreational areas, etc. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of Mr. F Vice-President of Parliament is ringing.]] I am sorry, Mr President, for the misuse of time. Do not come and answer, Minister, by blaming those who are suffering for the shortcomings of the state, the OSCE in this regard, but also the state services, the State itself and the governments concerned. They are political responsibilities and they are enormous. We call for this, Minister, as well as for the government's commitment to launch, in cooperation with the OSE, and with the local administration and regional authorities, the subordination of the railway lines. I repeat that it is a constant and time-consuming request from all the actors, mayors and districters, regardless of how they promote it toward the central authority and how they claim it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u52	Thank you. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u53	Perhaps the honourable Member did not understand. We said that every administration's primary concern, every state official, every government official, is human life, and we said that everything should be seen in anthropcentric manner. But when we ask for a subjugation at a point where there is a different way to go from one side to another, when we ask for a subjugation at a point where there are fences to prevent anyone from going through, we must also feel the economic environment in which we are, and if there is such a heavy burden at this point, which requires such a thing to be done, such as, for example, in Sepoliya Attica, where we are actually moving forward. You said before that there's no crossing. Please. I submit for the minutes the picture of the crossing that exists at that point, right next to the point that was passed by the small Roma.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u54	I said there are no readings in general. Don't twist what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u55	There's an underground crossing. Don't interrupt me, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u56	I didn't say anything about this point. I said that there are not enough readings in general and those that exist are poorly maintained, with insufficient ventilation and are not accessible to the world.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u57	I'm noble. Follow what I do. I'm noble. Don't interrupt. It is undemocratic and disgusting what you are doing. So please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u58	Please, Mr. Mavraani, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u59	So we say that at this point, while you said to the world that there is no underground passage, there is one and I am tabling it to you. While you said to the world that there are no shells, there are. I'll give it to you. You're asking for subjugation. But subjugation could be decided in the context of budgetary policy and the allocation of funds, since there were no other ways of crossing the world on the one hand and there was a very large urban fabric where this would have been imposed. Do you know a lot of subjugations going on in the countryside?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u60	Is Larissa a countryside?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u61	She's outside Larissa. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u62	All right, all right. Come to Larissa and say this one.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u63	Please calm down. We move to the first question under number 473/17-10-10-2017 question of the cycle of petitions and questions (A) by MP I of Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on "To ensure that supplementary pensions are continued to be paid to all employees of the National Bank without any reduction". Please, Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, yesterday we took part - like you, from what I learned - at a great gathering of the pensioners of the National Bank for LEPETE where, as you have seen, the anger and anger of all this world, representing sixteen thousand five hundred pensioners throughout Greece, who are in danger of losing their supplementary pension and, of course, of another five thousand workers who today pay their contributions and who are in danger of losing their insurance expectations. It is known that the National Bank's plans to stop paying off its obligations to the LEPETE creates this explosive situation. But the government has the responsibilities. For example, there can be no such logic as that it is the fault of Frankiadakis. Frankiadakis was to blame, but the Ministry has the greatest responsibility to ensure supplementary pensions for workers and pensioners of the National Bank. LEPETE has become a deficit because of the choices and policies of the National Bank and the governments. It is well-known that it strengthened the capital increase, the recapitalisation, even taking a loan, entered the PSI - in the haircut - in line with the law of Horseson in 2015 and excluded the employees who have been hired since then and after the LEPETE, gambled stock reserves on the stock market. The National Bank with voluntary retirement schemes forced thousands of workers to retire prematurely, so that they are far fewer today, work intensified, and much more of them having signed contracts with flexible labour relations. The questions, Minister, are well known. We have submitted them to you since 17 October 2017 and you did not respond. What are you going to do to ensure, to cover fully and directly the deficits of the funds from the management of the EIB, not to lose 1 euro of the supplementary pensioners of the national pensioners, not to lose 1 euro of the contributions of the workers who are currently insured in the LEPETE, to join the regulation of the National Bank and the relevant insurance funds all the workers of the National Fund who are currently in the hostage of the flexible labour relations and to cover the huge gaps left behind by voluntary withdrawals with recruitment of workers with a permanent and stable employment relationship. That is what we would like your answers. We are sure that today they are following this question and the debate, Minister, thousands of national workers, because yesterday we also shared the question at this gathering, where you also took part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u65	Thank you. The Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity will answer Mr. Petropoulos. Before replying, Minister, I would like to make a statement to this House. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-six students and three teachers from the 5th Keratsini High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Petersburg, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. You had the opportunity to attend the debate on the same question by Mrs Kafantaris a few weeks ago. There are in the Minutes of my House, which I shall be briefly re-expanding. I consider Mr Katsotis' question to be an opportunity again to send the same message to the bank in order to meet its essential contractual commitments and also its institutional obligation. The National Bank cannot behave in the way that each employer behaves, but with a greater responsibility, because its attitude also affects the course of the largest credit institution in the country. It also marks a position in general that they must be responsible and consistent with the workers who have been based on the work of these people since 1949, which has established this supplementary pension account. With their funds, he supported the bank itself. These are things known. I've been through it before. In its report 334 of 2005, the International Labour Organisation has defined as the obligation of the bank to resolve this issue - it has been thirteen years since - the way in which the regulation on the operation of the LEITE itself is laid down. It is a regulation that has regulatory effect and there can be no room for legislative intervention without utilization of the provisions it contains. In accordance with Article 4 of that Regulation, the relevant decisions of the Management Committee of the LEITE shall be taken by a majority of 4/5 and the Management Board of the National Board of Greece shall subsequently adopt management decisions. It is really a great problem of responsibility that the National Bank over all these years has never been quick to deal with an issue that it itself created with all the governments that supported these choices, and with L.2084 there have been initiatives to regulate supplementary pension issues, but LEITE has not been integrated into this law at the time. This was an option based on the very importance of the existence and operation of the LEITE that was always treated as an entity that is not continuing with the rest of the country's subsidiary insurance system, but is an entity that operates autonomously within the National Bank and was part of the relevant Insurance Directorate of the bank itself, i.e. it was in its full jurisdiction the way the LEITE operates. There was also an opinion that the bank's general council invoked in 1994 that the bank had no need to integrate it into the national body of social security because it was its own case and there was no reason to take measures, since it was always a body under its own guarantee function. These positions of the bank were repeated over time. Suddenly, the bank was attempted in 2008 to distance itself from this responsibility. This was not the case with various methods, this matter was transferred over subsequent periods of time. Today there is a communication - a statement from the bank that it is going to stop paying these supplementary pensions. The Government's position was clear and clear that there is no possibility of abolishing the benefit. It is provided for by the operating regulation of the RAGF itself, which has the regulatory effect of the agreement procedure on operating conditions. It is Article 4 that stipulates how it should be done. And the government has repeatedly stated that this obligation is not only contractual, it is essential and has a regulatory effect and must be respected by the bank, that is to say, negotiations must take place, as the International Labour Organisation set out in its 334 report, in order to resolve the issue in terms of the viability of the provision itself and in terms of fairness. That, from what I know, so far, has not happened. I was informed, however, recently and on the occasion of my presence yesterday at the retired people's gatherings - a great crowd in a central hotel in Athens - that an effort is being made these days to start negotiations between the workers' association and the bank. I hope that will bring about soon. And it must have a positive effect, because that is to the good of the bank. I believe that the administration has no choice but to finally discuss with the collective representation of workers, as is required by the International Labour Organisation report, which we naturally adopt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Kattotis, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we understand your position. You say the National Bank has an obligation to keep what is defined through the account. But the National Bank doesn't do it until now. And no he doesn't, it's known to you, because you had been responsible for years as a fighter in this area, that since 2005, when the law of the Horse-hunting began changes in a period of great growth, the countdown for the LEPETE started, as for all such funds. In 2008, as you reiterated here today, again at a time when there was still no crisis, the National Bank attempted to reverse this situation with the account, the well-known LEITE and to relinquish the responsibilities to cover the fund's deficits. Then it is well known that there was neither a comitology nor a memorandum of understanding. So this is not about a choice of the National Bank in a time of crisis. There was a design, apparently, to get rid of its responsibilities for a very long time. And a question arises, Minister. You, as a government today, are promoting the question of the professional funds as a whole. Here LEPETE, like TAPILTAT of Commercial, has such a relationship. It is the result of a bilateral agreement, it is the result of a workers' and employers' agreement, and it has such a relationship with regard to the question of assistance. You see, then, what is the outcome of all this - if you like - of the funds that are related to it. Because this decision to exempt the State and the employer from the responsibility to take part in insurance is now coming here to act in the Commercial, national and other fields where you are the first to make certain funds professionally and to have that end. What do they actually want to do? Have predetermined contributions, not benefits. Because that's what's going on. It does not want the bank to ensure the benefits of pensioners, which are the result of the bank's agreement with the pensioners and to cover their supplementary pension, which they have had for several years. We believe, Minister, in addition to the call you make to the National Bank to respect the agreement, that you have to take responsibility as government - which you have responsibilities - for the logic you have in the insurance system, for the overthrow which is being attempted here and for the promotion of the professional funds where the workers, if they accept such a prospect, will have the result that you are now washing your hands and what you say? We invite the National to pay the insurance fund deficits. The appeal is not enough, Minister. You need to take other measures. Ensure the pensions of the national pensioners and the contributions of the members of the members of the family who are paid today.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u69	Mr Anastasios Petropoulos, Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kattotis and Mr President, I would like to take a break so that Mr Katsotis can answer my question. What is the JRC's proposal? Include the insured persons at the SEPETE? If he is proposing that I hear it now, because it is a matter of the government's responsibility and jurisdiction to make such an obligation immediately. However, we do not have the political idea that we need to incorporate the insured into the EIF, but we have the political idea that the bank should be forced, as it has to be, to behave in the way that the LEADER rules define. In other words, as Article 4 says, the Management Committee is to decide. That's what he's always done, and the good days and the bad days. That won't change now. There is no way that the government will give room for a change of attitude to the bank's responsibility to comply with the regulation. I expect the response from the JRC, because it really will help this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u71	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u72	Look, it is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure, but we can tolerate it if the Minister wants it too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u73	Thank you very much. We have to tell the Minister that the tools for complying with the bank have them and do not have the JRC. The JRC here calls on the government to take all those measures, to use all the tools it has in its hands as a government, to oblige the bank to pay the deficits to the LEITE and to continue the payment of pensions to pensioners in an uninterrupted manner.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u74	Thank you. Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u75	I understand from Mr Katsotis' answer that, when the government is to be blamed, all the other standing positions of the Communist Party on capitalism, class opposition, all these conceptions of class interests disappear if it is the government that is to blame. Same for the floods. That was the position of the JRC, so it tackles that. For that is what the government does: to keep the law, not to begging or appealing to the bank, but to point to the bank, as the government has an obligation to do, to comply with its obligations under this regulation, which has regulatory effect. This position I am saying here is not just a word. It is of great importance and suggests the bank's responsibility, as one of the largest credit institutions in the country, to behave responsibly and to do what it has always done. In other words, the management committee with the four-fifths and the bank's board of directors should decide on the best solution to ensure that a body operating since 1949 has been operating for nearly seventy years. It is not difficult to understand that. The government will not allow this to happen any differently. It's over and out. The responsibility has to be properly attributed. It cannot be the responsibility of anyone to fire the government for a situation that has been defined how to deal with it. We fully support the position of the International Labour Organisation, which, in its report, says how it should be resolved. Since 2005, it has been almost thirteen years and must finally work - this is the government's position - the National Bank as it defines. He's going to negotiate. Where the negotiation results, the government will give its ratification in a way that is responsible and supports the right solution to the problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u76	But capitalism creates problems and not socialism. He's the one you serve.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u77	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being held from the bottom Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition by the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirteen German diplomats. The House welcomes them. Welcome to the Hellenic Parliament! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I would also like to inform you that the Standing Committee on Production and Trade submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: "Term-life training of staff of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy, strengthening transparency and integrity in matters of the competence of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy, strengthening social participation in the coastline, matters of civil servants, supplementing provisions on port projects and other provisions". We move to the first with number 262/10-11-2017 a topical question from the New Democracy MP, Yoyaka to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the subject: ‘Disturbances in the recognition of the right to financial assistance for people with severe mental discomfort’. The State Secretary, Mr. Petropoulos, will answer. Mr. Yoyaka, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u78	Minister, over the past few weeks in my prefecture, Thesprotia, people with severe mental discomfort, while they have been certified by the health committees of the former prefectures, are invited by the local welfare services for review, so that they can decide again whether or not they are entitled to the benefits. They are people who, under your law, by Law No.4331/2015, should not be re-enacted in CEPR committees. The law is clear and the cases of re-control concern a few prefectures throughout Greece. In the first paragraph, of the first article of L.4331/2015, it is stated that: ‘Those who are interested in joining the Preferential Economic Aid Programmes for Disabled Persons, as well as those whose validity of the opinions or certificates has expired, shall be subject to review by 1-9-2011 for the certification of their degree of invalidity by the CEPD Health Committees for the granting, extension of financial assistance or other benefit. The examination in the CEECs, Mr Minister, concerns those who want to obtain the right to receive a benefit but have no certification or those who have been certified but have expired. Badly, then, the review of people with severe mental discomfort, with a disability of 80% or more and a life and an intelligence index of less than thirty has begun. But there's also a worse one. A large proportion of those who have been re-examined were considered to be unable to receive the benefit with severe mentally backwardness. You know why, Minister? Because while they have an intelligence index under thirty, which is a prerequisite for the allowance, CEPD doctors, in the role of troika auditors and in many cases ignored recent results, an intellectual potential test from mental health centers, are arbitrary, with their own assessment of the indicator, greater than thirty. We have, for example, a suffering for which the mental health centre's attestation states that the process was not completed due to a complete inability to respond to the test tests, due to its condition and is confirmed by the intelligence index centre under thirty. This man, Minister, has been evaluated by the CSR Committee with an intelligence index of about 40. In such cases the allowance is cut. You can see some of the cases - we have them here - in the documents I submit for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Yoyakas, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] They are our fellow men who will never have the opportunity to work, who constantly need someone next to them, who are usually older parents today, but tomorrow they will not know if there will be someone to support them. So I would like you to tell us what you are going to do about our fellow citizens with severe mental discomfort, who have been poorly called for a review and what you will do with those who have been deprived of the allowance after the review.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u79	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Yoyaka, the documents you filed are not classified, so I'll see them. It's not like the other Members who testified and raised the universe. I will see them because we really care how the relevant committees work. The commissions, however, are made up of scientific staff from the country, doctors, who have no reason to act beyond the oath they have given, their obligation to carry out their duties properly. But there is always something that we should investigate. However, I would like to inform you that according to the relevant lists of mentally disabled persons, which we have been working on and will come into force shortly, the limits have become more favourable to mentally disabled people. For a disability rate of 80% the thirty-four rate became thirty-four. So we've been expanding the coverage of forty-five, and it's been forty-nine, for a 67% disability rate. So our intention, as a government, is to better meet the needs of mentally disabled people. But as you are obviously aware, I do not know what happened in Thesprotia and I am surprised, because that is where this issue arises - from another region in the country. We'll look into it, 'cause it turns out there especially. Because you know the issue of disability, it is a little gray issue, which in some cases has been exposed to us in the past. You know it and we all know it. We must be very careful that the disability is exactly certified on scientific terms. It is an obligation that we have as a society, because it is a condition of protection of the right to the accuracy of certification. Because if we are to pull it out and forget about it by joining disabled people who must not, you realize that it is a bad result for the disabled themselves, because their situation is in doubt and it is unfair and socially unjust, to allow such a suspicion to exist to anyone in the country. So the accuracy of the certification is to their protection. That is why the way that is now certified electronically and with tables of electronic disability and certification in a scientific way, with international standards, not invented by us, makes the result undeniable. In this sense and under the new tables that have changed, it is obvious that they must go through this new method of certification and that will be done throughout the country. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u81	Mr. Yoyaka, you have the floor for three minutes again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u82	Minister, I would like to make a few comments on this. Although I see your sensitivity, some things need to be specified. The problem we are discussing is not only about Thesprotia, where about 100 people have been invited for review with decisions by former prefectural authorities and, as I said, more than 80% of them and under thirty. Legally, it doesn't work. It is, of course, possible to provide for and according to this law to review some people here, but they were taken by all those who have these decisions. Indeed, I can tell you that during our recent visit, President Mitsotakis, in Igoumenitsa received these complaints, from too many of our compatriots who have children in this situation. Let me tell you the other thing. The state has created structures, which are trying to improve the situation of these children, to enable them to adapt and acclimatise in society as a whole. We come these decisions, which have before 2010, which are children of thirty-five, forty-forty-five years - large people now, essentially - and where their parents are taking care of them at this time in order to be able to serve - the basic needs - and now the state itself, this good that had given them so that they could survive, to deprive them. It's really socially unfair. They're cut off by committees, not by you personally, Mr. Petropoulou. I'm telling you that the intelligence index from thirty that he was, might have gone to thirty-five, because the social structures helped them to improve. Can these people live by cutting off these benefits? Honestly, it is a crucial question and has been made primarily in a few prefectures. Mr.4331, Minister, it's clear. It does not invite everyone to re-enter a committee. It is at the discretion of welfare in each area. In addition to this, there are incidents, Minister, which, while the mental health centers have an IQ of intelligence below thirty when assessing doctors from CEPD, the indicator can go to forty-five and automatically cut the benefit of mentally disabled. There are decisions that do not even refer to the intelligence index in the decisions of the CSR.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u83	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u84	Is that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u85	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u86	It's arbitrary. That is what we want to make clear and it is clear that those with a disability rate of 80% and an intelligence index under thirty do not have to go through. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, because this is a serious matter. The local welfare of Igoumenitsa to the Ministry was requested, and Mr Carellas answers what the legislation says, without saying that he saves and well has to go through those who have more than 80% of those who have an intelligence index of thirty. In the Municipality of Agios Dimitrios, Mr. Karellas says that those with a percentage below 67% must go through again. There is, in general, a confusion and the same standards do not apply throughout the territory. It's a very delicate matter. You must look at this with particular attention, without anyone saying that incidents, which are provoking and which do not apply, should continue to receive benefits. Then they will be called, from what we learn, and the blind ones will return. There, Minister, people who are likely to have no proper diagnosiss may recur. And one last thing that can be very useful, is that from 1-1-2018 with the new OGA, all privileged allowances should be paid through OGA and not through the welfare of the municipalities, which is done so far. There is provision, and from what I'm told, the CEPR code has to be completed, so that the benefits can be paid through the new OGA. We would like to clarify, if not today, how it can be arranged if it has not been passed by CESR committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u87	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u88	Mr. Yoyaka, of course every parent's wish is for his child to acquire a mental capacity greater than the one he has. It can't be a parent's wish to keep the mental ability to get a family allowance. I'm sure of that. That's how parents work. Therefore, because the state has an obligation to operate at all levels and to improve health benefits, in order to strengthen people in scientific, medical and medical ways to become more competent, because mental capacity is known to be developed. It is different in childhood, it can improve until it reaches a point of course, it cannot grow continuously, and it can be lost later, but this time point is an age. This is an admissible principle of the scientific community on the relevant issues and on that basis we are operating. But I told you that index thirty became thirty-four. The relevant FEC will be published shortly. So you're all going through that new scale to get into the more favourable arrangement, because if you're going to have a thirty-four mental capacity index you're getting into the heavy mental delay, and before you were not, you should've had thirty, you realize that this is something much better. We are thus proving - not only us but also the scientific community, the experts who have been called upon to define the relevant parameters - that we show sensitivity and, in fact, we believe that this improvement is necessary. This will be done with a certification of the relevant committees, who are scientists, specialist neurologists, psychologists and psychiatrists, who will make the diagnosis concerned. It can't be done differently. What you said confirms what I said before that we have without intelligence the certificate of serious mental delay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u89	They've got an I.D. on the kids.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u90	You said that. No, you said that without mentioning an intelligence index, it says heavy." This is unacceptable as a document and does not certify.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u91	Decision of the CEDEFOP.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u92	Please, Mr. Yoyaka.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u93	I get it. You said, recorded, and that's what we all understood, we didn't understand anything different. Certification of severe mental delay without an IQ. Unacceptable and scandalous! It harms the sufferers themselves in such a situation! Where that exists, it must be lifted and settled by the certified procedure, based on international standards, which we did not invent, as I said before. There are international literature and practice on these issues and we will work with them. So we will function and it will be a proper process, which will not be subject to any doubts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u95	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u96	Mr. Yoyaka, you don't have the right to tritology. Nobody. Neither the Minister nor you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u97	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u98	We do not have the right to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u99	But we did it before, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u100	Tritology no. He was interrupted by the Minister and said he wanted, but it's not a tritology.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u101	This is a sensitive issue, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u102	Talk to the Minister, and here we are, because we will start after dialogue. You understand that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u103	All right, I'll get in touch with the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u104	We move to the third with number 250/7-11-2017 a topical question (B) by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the acute problems encountered by students in public IEK with the opening of their schools. The Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity will answer Mrs Antonopoulou. Mr. Delis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u105	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, with our question today, we are raising an issue concerning students from the public IKK, in which, of course, the vast majority of young people from working people are studying new and young people. That's well known. In addition to the traditional problems that exist in these institutes of vocational training, i.e. the shortcomings in teachers, the shortages in infrastructure, the outdated technological equipment, the fact that these students do not get any time to move, even with a reduced ticket, your Government with Law 4430, which was voted on a year ago, deleted the unemployed students of these IEKs from the OAED unemployed registers. It was supposed to be according to Law 4430, which I said before, that the issue was dealt with, but it actually got worse. How's that law? It's important to see it again. It sets additional conditions, i.e. additional obstacles, to obtain the OAED unemployment card, which gives them even some opportunities to work a little better. In order not, therefore, unemployed students of public IEKs from the OAED unemployed’s registers should be registered at least one quarter prior to their attendance at the IEK, must have declared their student’s programme before starting and must have spent two calendar years entire from their previous possible participation in a training programme. These conditions operate cumulatively. Even if one of these is not the case, then immediately they come out of the OAS's unemployment registers, and so we have the phenomenon, many of the students of the public IEK to stop their training, so that they are not removed from the OAED unemployed's registers and even those few who are entitled to, that is, free access - with the unemployment card, I mean - to public transport, to participate in some seminars or to some work programmes, the possible mobilisation of certain posts in the public sector, etc. In our question, what we want to ask and what the students themselves demand, is that the relevant provision of the law should be amended and that there should be no deletion of an unemployed IEK student from the OAED registers and, of course, the stable and stable demands of the student movement supported by the JRC. To take all students for direct access to transport, to fill gaps in teachers in these institutes and, of course, to operate in such a way as to cover the technical equipment, which in many cases is outdated. We're waiting for your answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u106	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u107	Mr Delis, thank you for the question, because you are giving me the opportunity to inform you and colleagues and citizens of a matter that I know is employing dozens of unemployed students. First of all, I note that it now employs dozens and not thousands of students, as was the case in the past. I'll explain why. In March 2017, OAED issued the relevant interpretative circular 16435/2-3-2017 specifically, which it made public through the relevant services. However, there is a limited problem, as I said, involving dozens of students and not thousands, but a serious problem for the unemployed who fall under this category. Who are these fellow citizens? They are who for any reason were not informed in time and did not inform the OAED that although they are unemployed, they have been enrolled either in a programme or in an IEC School. So here, as you know, we have moved forward. I will assure you about what is generally happening and I will tell you how we will deal with this issue that has been created for our tens of fellow citizens, to whom I have referred. What we have secured is that no IEK student is going to lose either his unemployment or his unemployment benefit - if he was receiving and entitled to benefits - or any of the rights deriving from his or her status as an unemployed person. We have ensured that. The issue that has arisen, we ensure it by means of legislation which we have ready and very soon we will be tabling a motion for a resolution. This regulation provides that unemployed persons who have been deleted from the unemployment registers because they have not declared themselves in good time the elements of the programme in which they participate or the school - IEK which have been registered with the OAED, may within sixty days of the publication of the provision, reintroduce them by submitting the statement, together with a request to restore the continuity of unemployment which they had, which, of course, was not the objective of the regulation we have made. This has to do with the unemployed students, whom your question primarily concerns. [[The end of the speaking time of Mrs. Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I'm gonna need a minute, Mr. President. What will now be the case in the future? Those who wish to participate in a training programme must state this in ten days' time after the first renewal of the unemployment card after the start of the programme or at the first time after the programme was launched in the Member States. As you know, the unemployment card must be renewed every three months. So with this provision that we are now putting in, with the amendment that we are going to bring, we will ensure that no one loses their status as unemployed. We are therefore widening the time within which this can be done. At the same time, however, because we are linking the procedure to a programme with the renewal of the unemployment card, as I said before, the chances of deleting are now being minimised. Therefore, Mr Delis, ladies and gentlemen, I can assure you that the matter will be settled immediately and definitively. As far as the media is concerned, since we are talking about unemployed students, unemployed students, who are unemployed of any category, as you know, we have arranged and the unemployed are moved free of charge to Athens and Thessaloniki. As far as all students are concerned, this - as you know very well - concerns the Ministry of Education and is responsible for answering you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u108	Please, Mr. Delis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u109	I'm starting with the last one, Minister. I think you will agree with me that government policy is uniform and all the ministries are working coordinatedly on the question of a very specific policy. Thus government responsibility exists for the issue of student mobility by public transport and it is indifferent whether this responsibility concerns the Ministry of Labour or the Ministry of Education or anything else. Your answer was interesting, because I think that in an indirect way, you acknowledged that these three conditions which entered into with Law 4430 have created and created obstacles so as to have or not to lose the unemployment card, which these public IEK students may have had. You said that legislation is imminent that will regulate the matter. Of course, from what I have noticed - we will see how it will be formulated - this legislation will relate, above all, to the second condition, namely the question of when they inform the OAU about when they started their studies. Because the first and third, namely, the question of four-month unemployment before the start of their studies or the end of two years from the previous training programme, those from what I have heard, will remain and will, of course, continue to be obstacles to the acquisition by students of the unemployment card. You know, we think these students in these IEKs are going to IEKs, just to tackle the unemployment problem. Many of them work, those who can, those who find a job. And in that sense we would say that all the students of the IEK should be registered in the OAS's unemployed registers. And not only that, but everyone gets the unemployment benefit. I imagine you know the facts - you are making them public - that only one out of every ten unemployed people gets this unemployment benefit. I do not know the feasibility of this measure. You have spoken about a number of dozens. I do not know what good it is and how much it can hide unemployment under the carpet, that they do not look as unemployed in the OAED registers. In any case, we consider these conditions, as they enter, to be an extortion for students, to choose the OAED unemployment card or the studies, since they remain the first and third prerequisites, as I have said. We will, of course, wait for this regulation that you announced a moment ago to be more precise. Of course they must not wait, Minister, for their students and parents and for the people's movement, who must step up their struggles, against an anti-popular policy that you and your government are serving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u110	Please, Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u111	Mr Delis, I have tried to respond to a positive spirit on the subject you have raised. I said that, to the extent that this issue came to our attention, which arose for those who continue their vocational training in short-term programmes or when they return to an IEK, that we responded and fully responded. This is illustrated by the fact that, while prior to the regulation we have made, there were thousands of those programmes due and also the IKK students who lost their right, today are dozens. So I don't understand at all what it means to admit that the regulation we've made is not helping. That's your conclusion. I'll leave it to the civilians. You also told me that the policies are horizontal, so either your question can be answered by the Ministry of Education or by the Ministry of Tourism and by any other Ministry or I am responsible for answering your question. So, at the moment, you are disorientating the conversation that we have come very well to ask and answer our question by putting some generalities at the moment, which do not serve anyone and certainly not the students for whom you are cut and you have come here to ask me the question. Let me inform you, then, of this: as far as the four-month period is concerned, the four-month period is right, because the distortion that has been made with the management of Community funds is concerned, it has led too many of our fellow citizens to use these procedures to enable them to have a simple income. So what did we notice to the unemployed, as they were being trained, and why did we put the four months, which are legitimate with regard to the unemployed? You can understand, of course, that it is not only about the Occupied Territories here. It concerns continuing vocational training in a number of projects the country has put forward in support of the unemployed. They therefore come to European committees and fine the country, because they say that an unemployed person is going through four programmes over a period of three years without success. So when a programme is over, from there on it is the OAS's duty but also the unemployed's obligation to look for a job. They can't go from one program to another. Therefore, the four months of registration that we have set out and the two years that must have passed since the last training programme, in order to maintain this status of unemployed, ensure precisely the legality of the participation of fellow citizens in these programmes. I would like to finish by saying this: you will see the order. Here we are to continue talking. If we are concerned with the fate and future of students, we are here at your disposal. Of course it's our duty to be here to talk. However, as far as the unemployed are concerned, particularly this group of our fellow citizens who each family suffers, because unemployment, as you know, was evicted from 7% to 27.8% over a three-year period, not to use this as an area of exchange of micro-party views. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, too. The first, with number 364/21-11-2017, top-circuit question (A) by MP Heraklion of the New Republic of Greece, Eleftherios Ausgenakis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Except for ex-judicial'red' agricultural loans', will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Member. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u113	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Island Policy: "Timelong training of staff of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy, strengthening transparency and integrity in matters of the competence of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Islands Policy, strengthening social participation in coastal shipping, matters of civil staff, supplementing provisions on port projects and other provisions". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 15 November 2017 to discuss the draft law at one to two single meetings in principle, on articles and amendments. SYRIZA's rapporteur, Mr Theodores Dritsas, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr President. I would ask for your tolerance in time, because it is a large bill and it is difficult to carry out so many articles in a short time. Before entering the bill itself, I would like to make a clarification, because today there is a newspaper front page, which is not accurate and I have to restore it. Indeed, I and other colleagues have tabled an amendment on the settlement of a pending matter concerning successful and nominees through an AACC competition in previous years, some of whom were to be appointed to the PPA before the PPA changed status. This explanation contained in the explanatory statement was interpreted by some - and by journalists - as a placement by law of workers in a private company, as the PPA is now. That's not true. It is a successful PPA competition arrangement that must now, because they have documented and guaranteed a right, be settled. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law by the Ministry of Shipping is a draft law which has been prepared for a very long time by means of successive consultation procedures both on the Internet and at private meetings of the relevant Minister with stakeholders in the sectors and associations, whose issues regulate this bill. Also, in the final phase, in the process of hearing bodies in the House, an extensive debate has been held. There's a lot of things that have been tabled. A large and important part of the labels submitted through this procedure, already the Minister, with legislative improvements, has accepted them and has incorporated them in the bill, as is introduced into plenary by the committee procedure. I think that this material is a material that can indeed be very useful for the future. It is a good package of ideas, proposals and points, which can also be exploited in the future, for what has not been done now and which need to be matured. Most articles in the bill concern the Port Parliament and its upgrading. A number of other articles also concern port services and the operation of ports. This bill does not deal with maritime education and with the strategic planning of ports. However - as we all know, I think, but I assure you - these are issues which the Ministry has launched and which are growing step by step towards an overall approach as much as others. This bill regulates and solves issues and outstandings for many years. Not only were they mature but some of these arrangements were in danger of literally rotting. They may not be top-level arrangements, but they are important sub-groups, which have troubled people as well as the functioning of the Ministry. The second thing it does is to redefinite and restore dissent, confusion and overlaps, and I think this is very useful. Finally, the news that it brings, is that it attempts sectors and opens up upgrading and transparency roads in key areas of the activity of the Ministry of Shipping, the Headquarters of the Port Body and the General Secretariat of Ports. I will necessarily try to choose some articles, because it is not possible to carry out an article for an article. It would be very good if we had time to do that at two separate meetings. But the debate in our committee has enabled us to refer to all the articles. So I will start with the Port Corps and its upgrade. The bill itself in its title begins with reference to the lifelong training of staff of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy. The first part, in particular, concerns the training of Inspectors - Port and Recognised Organisations and the establishment of a School of Auditor Inspectors. It is a very important step - to upgrade ship control and control and control mechanisms and responsibilities, as well as port state inspectors, Recognised Bodies Auditors, Port Installations Safety Auditors and many other areas of this very important activity. The pan-Hellenic tests established within this bill for the integration and training of the representatives of the Port Authority, both of port guards and of officers and officers, are indeed a historical intersection. Apart from the fact that the Armed Forces and the Security - Police and Fire Forces - it is very important that the time is coming for the Port Authority to enter the orbit of higher and higher education. This - we all understand that we do not have to argue - opens a new era for this House. Now arguments such as that of the House need captains, engineers, shipyards and how they will come out, I do not think they are right. These arguments are to be said, because exactly such education - with postgraduate, postgraduate education and much more for which the road opens - covers all these needs - and general and special education - for all the specialities that this House needs. Also, it is not possible now with the law to do everything. It is first necessary to establish, authorize the law to initiate all the preparation procedures, which are needed and provided for by a Presidential Decree to be adopted, for the organization of studies, for the other details, on any matter to be dealt with and dealt with. But it is not possible that these should now come from the law. It's very logical that they come that way. The other issue that has also been debated seriously, which regulates this bill and also concerns the Port House - not only the Port House - is the ship control sector and the classification societies. There's been a lot of noise. I won't get into the details because I don't have the time. But what's this bill doing? It does not abolish the ship control industry. Not at all. It upgrades the ship control industry, strengthens it and sets up procedures and prerequisites to monitor the classification societies. In any case - it has now been a regime for many decades, both in our country and internationally, in international shipping - the classification societies attest to the adequacy of ships, are responsible for issuing certificates under conditions and under categories, etc. Here, therefore, it also integrates the so-called'small classification societies', for which many discussions have been held at times, in rules of binding upgrading of their own competence and responsibility. He's controlling them. He's putting them in control. It is incredible, ladies and gentlemen, but I would like to inform you that there is no legal framework for real control of classifications so far. There isn't. I won't go into details. I can bring you a lot of incidents as examples, which I have already experienced through my term of office as Minister. So it upgrades the ship control industry and gives it tools and ways to actually be able to play this upgraded role. Another group of articles regulating the issues of the Port House is the one referring to transfers, secondments, transfers, etc. There has been a serious debate here and serious objections have been raised. There is no need to repeat the same thing. This debate has lasted for almost two years both with the associations of ports and the PES and the WTO and with local associations. It gives solutions to the structure of the port administrations and other things to correct very extreme situations of the port 'Kallikratis', as it is called in the Port House, which has caused many problems for both transfers and for secondments. It sets rules for both service criteria and social and objective criteria, the place of identification and a number of other issues. With this legislated clear framework now, it can clearly and transparently, every executive is aware of his rights and obligations and, of course, he is planning his life. Of course, with the subsequent President-in-Office's decree that further decisions will be adopted, details will be laid down on this basis. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and also for the excellent work he has done in this area. There are also legislative improvements in this area, on the part of the Minister, which I think have responded very well to various points or imperfections that might exist. I do not think this debate should continue. Personally and with the honour that this House has gained in my conscience and the appreciation I have to do with it, I call upon all the Members of this House and all the associations to see these changes as a promotional change for their dignity and their dignity. I think that this House honours its officials with this purely legislative regulation and framework. From there on in the same direction of upgrading the House is the chapter and articles concerning the structure of forces and the planning of supplies through procedures of the House itself and the highest programming councils through the Minister's recommendation and a decision of the CYSE. What else can this mean, apart from a real upgrading of this House, to play its part in the 21st century and as a Port Authority and as a Greek Coast Guard, as well as as a final activity in the shipping sector, which is, of course, a sector which is all about the Ministry of Shipping. So I think that these chapters cover these issues very well. The other issue being negotiated by this bill is a series of articles and regulations relating to maritime tourism. There has also been a lot of talk of harming competitiveness, of destroying businesses, etc. On the contrary, after a long consultation process, this bill comes to protect the competitiveness of Greek ships by stopping illegal charters, which were a scourge. The Ministry and the Minister, Mr Kouroublis, the Secretary-General of Ports, Christos Lambridis and the Secretary-General of the Ministry, Mr Dionissis Kalamatianos and the Deputy Minister of Santorinios, and many others have contributed the maximum in this direction. It also abolishes the unnecessary visa procedure for seafarers, simplifys and accelerates the procedure for issuing departure permits, prohibits the whole charter for private pleasure boats and in any way the advertising of such vessels. Diplomas are also allowed to take one-off routes, and difficulties arise in the process of issuing a professional licence for ships other than Greek are resolved. These provisions are not affected. Instead, they significantly strengthen Greekity in maritime tourism and lay rules. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We can say a lot. I don't have the time. Give me a margin, Mr President, please. Navy work. Indeed, this bill has individual arrangements for maritime work and because we have also received an attack on the committee, particularly on the part of the Communist Party of Greece, I would like to say that any regulation that has this bill is in a positive direction. It improves and doesn't get worse. I would, however, like to steal half a minute, to say that this ministry has, since 2015, made arrangements, interventions and improvements important to maritime work. I do not have the time, but I may be presenting to the minutes of these long lists. In fact, many of them were not even a request from the seamen. Not to mention the cancellation of redundancies and the re-occupation of civil servants of the Ministry. Not to talk about the commercial Navy academies, the pass and other things about the machine reopening. I do not want to talk about the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, but I do not want to talk about the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection which has not come here for the reform of its operating framework. Not to talk about the unpaid seamen of NEL and August. I do not want to talk about the arrangements, which relate to cases of abandonment of a crew, on the anti-democratic and anti-constitutional measure of the cancellation policy, on the further expansion of the number of unemployed seafarers entitled to exceptional allowances, which this bill brings together. Not to talk about the review and systematic revision of the derogating special compositions on a number of ships, which, while provided for in the law as an exception, had become the rule. Let me not even talk about the concession agreement to the PPA, which has proved and recognised itself, and which has already proved this, and in the time it has gone through, the rights of workers in the ports, Piraeus and Thessaloniki. The regulations on the possibility of public service contracts by municipalities and small islands allow them to solve problems where the current legal framework and the reality cannot serve these islands. The spokesman of the New Democracy, Mr. Placiotakis, told us about 'partial statism'. In any case, it is very important and I think it will give a new impetus to the small islands. I conclude with the former Article 106 and now 105, after the removal of Article 83. I won't say much about the waste. I will invoke the opinion of the Greek Chamber of Shipping and the opinion of the Association of Operations of the ferry. This is not the case now. No one's got any sightings. There is only one objective. To harmonize Greek legislation in a uniform way, with European and global legislation, to create sound rules for the collection of waste - liquid, solid and dangerous - in the ports of the country. No one's targeting, no one's canceling. It is legitimate both in terms of European legislation and in terms of the concessions of the Greek State to the Piraeus Port Authority, and therefore it is not a question and does not really need to focus so much and so much noise. Okay, there's some people who might have some other pursuits, but that doesn't mean anything. The State must stand in a rational manner in the uniform regulation of certain rules, which are crucial for the operation of ports and for the protection of the environment and the public interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, too. We shall now proceed with the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Plakatakis. Before going up to Stepma, we will be given time to announce a school visit. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-seven students and students and three educational attendants from the 5th Keratsini High School. The House, guys, welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Plakyotakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u116	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to you during the debate on the bill in the relevant committee of Parliament and, indeed, I have wondered whether you are feeling what you are saying and what you are saying, or have completely lost your contact with the sensitive piece of shipping, which you think you are running. In that debate you started your speech, repeating your well-known line, which you have been snatching for months, about a naval account of 'four objectives for shipping'. I don't hide from you that I searched the dictionary for that, because it really caused me interest. The findings of the investigation have literally left me incomplete. I wonder, Mr. Curublis. Do you really know what the term ‘letter’ means? Do you know that this term is a construction of the people of political communication through which they build stories and myths for persons or products? Because I am sure you do not know, I would point out that the term "record" is used to describe every pedestrian literary text that tells a story. So what are you bringing us here to the House? A novel telling us various incoherent stories and fantasies that are supposed to resolve shipping issues. You also told us that we had to complete this legislation, which will prove functional, practical and effective. Mr Kurubli, I ask you directly: To whom - I wonder - will it prove practical, effective and operational? For those who are trying to serve or for you who are ambitious to gather superpowers on your face and function as monarch of Greek shipping? However, let us see how this legislation has emerged, which has been abstract of a ministerial decision and a committee since 2013. Ask the staff of the commercial ship inspection department and they will inform you that the legislation has been in place for the last two and a half years, which defined qualifications but also certified the flag state inspectors, as well as codified provisions on each category of inspectors. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] What did you do? You excluded flag state inspectors. That is why I will come back later, because this is a contradiction here. While we dismantle flag state inspectors, why is there supposedly the incompatibility between control and control - did you not say that in your prototype? - at the same time, however, you do not exclude the inspectors of companies and ships under the ISPS and ISM code. Answering that, do you have? You don't have one. Now we come to the issues of maritime tourism. We all recognise that marine tourism is one of the development tools available to our country. Yes, sir. When was the specific ship fee introduced? It was established in 2013. In the sense that I mentioned, we have introduced this specific fee on condition that the register of ships is operational, which we are still waiting for. You said it was ready. We'll see. We will also see how this works after two and a half years. We abolished all the charges for recreational craft. We abolished, for example, the luxurious import tax. What did everyone do? It's just that they just went and bought the ships abroad. So we had zero revenues on this fee. You are now reintroducing the luxury living tax for private pleasure boats, bringing VAT up to 24% for all the activities currently taking place in the marinas, and furthermore tell us in the report of the General Accounting Office of the State that you expect to collect EUR 15 000 000 from this specific fee. Mr Kurublis, I say to you - and I sign it - that not only will you receive EUR 15 000 000, but you are in danger of losing income from employers' contributions, from income tax, from VAT, from seafarers' losses, from losses on income from local communities, much more than you expect to get from this specific fee. You also fooled the president of the marinas. You told him that for the ships that are still on the marinas, there would be no that end. In fact, you spoke of these vessels, saying they were 'paralleled'. And the boats that are beamed in the marinas will also pay those that are sailing. Of course, with the legislative improvement you have put forward, obviously the vessels concerned will also pay this fee. Indeed, you are not only doing this, but you are also reintroducing anachronistic provisions, which had been abolished by Mr Varvitsiotis by Law 4256/2014. So what do you want? You want to save and well within the liquor, our visitors stacked in the tails, so that the port authorities inspect the chartered pacts and give the permission to sail. We are voting for such arrangements. These aren't anywhere in the world. It's third-world-style settings. Also, the charterer is obliged - be careful to see the spectacular - in the quay which is signed six months ago, to indicate the number of passengers, those who will disembark at the boarding and landing ports. So what if the composition changes? It's just he lost! That's the reality. I, Mr Kurubli, tabled a specific proposal, which I told your advisers to see. See legislative frameworks that exist in other competing countries such as Croatia, Spain, Italy, France and instead of imposing the specific charge on ships with a foreign flag, here are a tax representative, a lawyer or an accountant who can pay the VAT, without prejudice to the creation of a branch of a shipowner in Greece. Look at this proposal and cancel the fee, because at the same time that you impose this fee, at the same time privatize the marinas in the country. Are these two compromised? Obviously not. Let us now look at the issues that have to do with your favourite word, the word 'transparency'. Watch transparency. The provisions of the draft law require the adoption of a large number of regulatory acts, such as eleven Presidential Decrees, six joint ministerial decisions, fourteen ministerial decisions. In addition, the adoption of four presidential decrees, eight joint ministerial decisions and, of course, the Minister is required to act through the adoption of thirty-five ministerial decisions. Mr. Curublis, you come here and what are you asking for? In practice you are asking for 'white authorisation'. But of course there is also the provision of Article 130. What does she say? In fact, it is by ministerial decision that the Minister asks the authorisation to legalise circulars that have been issued in the past. Mr. Curublis, will you at last tell us who these circulars are? Let's see them. To come and see them, to evaluate them. Another case of transparency! We are now on staffing issues. What did we tell you? There is a d.d.33/2009. I didn't say that. The feds, the officers and the officers said so. To come to improve, to amend this President-in-Office's decree. I told you that for our day it was a presiding decree on Disciplinary Law, which had received all the signatures from all the agencies. Why didn't you bring this presidential decree to amend it or improve it? But here, what are you doing with Article 26? I read it, Mr Kurubli, many times. You look like you haven't read it. Watch what it says. He says: "The representatives of the Hellenic Coast Guard are placed, transferred and seconded, with a decision of the Minister of Shipping..." and I continue, because you tell me that I did not continue, he says: "... with which the respective tables are ratified."
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u117	Throw it on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u118	Yeah, you're gonna hear it now. Listen to me. First of all, why are they being ratified? Why are they being ratified? Does the Chief not ratify the decisions of the Transition Council? Mr. Curublis, so respectful...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u119	Shall we have a dialogue?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u120	He'll hear it, Mr. Dritsa. You're nervous.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u121	Mr. Placiotakis, don't start a dialogue, because it opens the appetite.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u122	So much respect for the Chief of the Port Corps? So respectful? Please! It is also supposed that the Chief of the Port Corps is the guardian of legality beyond and above any party or political feasibility. But, gentlemen of the government, it's obvious. Mr. Kourublis has been nursed at the large PASOK school of ruffles. This past, populism and the client system obviously pursues it. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Mr. Drits said that we will not tolerate the same porter for seventeen years. Isn't that what you said? You didn't say that? Now listen to me. With the amendment of Article 30(1), it shall be possible to stay at its place of choice for more than eight years. This is the great transparency of Mr Kurubli. I mean, be careful. The Minister will cancel the transfers. Who will cancel the transfers? The'mothers' obviously. In other words, we have transparency and dignity. The same applies, of course, to cases of sovereignty, to transfers and transfers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u123	You've read it again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u124	Mr. Curublis, you are indisputable. You are the biggest expressionor of the client system. That's well known.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u125	It's the Adonai line.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u126	Please don't start the dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u127	We now come to the recruitment of staff through the Greek examinations.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u128	The Greek people are the judge. Others go out MPs with three thousand and others with eighty.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u129	The Greek people are obviously the judge. You can't stand my argument. I understand that. What can I do to you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u130	Carry on, Mr. Placiotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u131	We are now going to recruit staff through pan-Hellenic examinations. In fact, he says: “To function academies for the recruitment of staff through pan-Hellenic examinations from the year 2018-2019”. Yes, sir! Mr. Kurubli, did you bring us study programs here? Did you bring us an economic study? Have you brought us regulatory acts, authorizing provisions on how these schools will work? Here you go to Kalymnos - of course, it's also the district of the State Secretary - and you promise a Commercial Navy school. Go to Alexandroupolis and promise academy. We will agree on the academy issue. But tell me how all this works?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u132	Will you vote on the order?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u133	Obviously we cannot vote for it. When it comes to air words, how can we vote on this provision? I asked you. In what procedures will specialty officers be recruited? You didn't answer us. I told you the Port Corps has two legs. One leg is the protection of maritime borders, and the other leg is the service, the competitiveness of commercial shipping. What do you want to save and well? Drop the officer's level? Why not follow the uptake process through ASA of graduates from AEI and AEN schools? Here is a proposal and watch out: No transitional provision is included and if academies are not ready, what will be done? Aren't we hiring in the port? Otherwise, it is a well thought-out bill, which has absolute coherence, which resolves all the issues of shipping. Watch out. When international shipping runs on provisions which will affect the competitiveness of the Greek ship, when there are provisions which will affect shipping activity in the environment, when there are provisions that will affect the replacement of ships and in the internal market, when, for example, the reform of education and training is needed, our Minister proposes such provisions, which, of course, are completely empty. We are now coming to the State Secretary. Mr. Santorinier, I understand that you have an agony to serve your constituency. But I would like to tell you that the operation of making the TATs and the regional shipowners a model that has failed. We had Symi's Anonymous Shipping Company. It is highly indebted and has been subject to Article 99 of the Banking Code. ‘TILOS 21 ASIA’ is also in liquidation. The Municipal Anonymous Company of Kalymnos, despite the subsidies it receives, presents a significant passive one, while the Prosecutor of Kos pending monthly reports from the previous municipal authority of the island for management scandals. While, in other words, you know that this is an anti-Community and anti-constitutional process, you are moving on to this regulation. And we have told you that this regulation is the absolute definition of stateism in the maritime sector. Where are the ships? Do you have ships? You are not talking here about those who have ships and you are trying to launch and unite the islands without, in fact, having any plans. I propose this to you. Why don't you reduce the VAT on tickets? Why don't you increase the pod on the barren lines? The New Democracy has also tabled an amendment to extend the reduced VAT on the islands of the north-eastern Aegean. That's how you'll support the islanders. Will you support them with state funds to subsidise shipowners, anonymous municipal and regional services? You mean growth?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u134	The percentage of barren lines...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u135	I understand I'm talking to ears of no listeners. We now come to the transformation - good expression - of the commercial ship inspection sector. How did that come about now? We had the shipwreck, for which, of course, no findings have yet been drawn. Is there a conclusion, Mr. Curublis?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u136	Should I interfere with the D.A.'s office to get it out? Mercy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u137	Minister, you will have the opportunity in your speech to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u138	But what do you do?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u139	Mr Plakkatakis, do not open a dialogue, because you have already exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u140	Questions are rhetorical. You, without anyone at all planning, grant public authority to the classification societies, without any prior study, without having secured either the network, without having determined the prices at which those actually served by the commercial ship inspection industry will be charged. What did we tell you? That there is an integrated study - ask the service actors - in the commercial ship inspection sector that upgrades this sector. How does he raise him? Because he hires more flag state inspectors. We'll be the only country we won't have flag state inspectors. They won't be able to inspect Greek flag ships and celebrate? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Please, your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u141	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u142	And what else do they do? They abolish the authorizing provisions for the extension of certificates, as they also state - see - age limits for the withdrawal of shipowners after the 30th year of their age. Do you really, Mr. Kurubli, have you done an impact study? Do you know that by 2022, thirty such ships will be withdrawn? Do you know that? You know that. Do you know that these ships are double hulls under European legislation and under Regulation 530? Do you know that? You don't care about that, as you don't care that three hundred families will go on the road. Now be careful how the government is exposed. Let's go to Article 109. The first paragraph shall be deleted from the third paragraph. In the first paragraph - and I will say it, for example, to understand it as well - please note what it says: a ship which, on 1-1-2009, is forty-two years, has to be withdrawn. Isn't that right? The double-hull ship, because it meets all European regulations, shall return with paragraph 3. Why does paragraph 3 say? That from 1 to 2022, shipping fuels shall be transported exclusively by vessels which comply with the requirements laid down in Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 June 2012, irrespective of their age. Are you working on us here? On 1-1-2009 a two-year double-hull ship is withdrawn and 1-1-2022 returns. Only you can do those magical things. This alone testifies how unrelated you are with all the issues and you are trying with all of these, if you like, the provisions literally to create a problem in the market. Now for the classification societies, I shall refer to my dentistry or to the debate on the articles. Because watch out for the amazing...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u143	Please complete with this, because you've reached twenty minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u144	I'll be done in a minute. I will end up with something more juicy. What are you doing? You're modifying by a ministerial decision. That's all you can do. So we'll have one piece by law and the other by ministerial decision. We are now coming to Article 106. First of all, the position of the New Democracy to be explained is in favour of healthy competition, but of course respect for both European and international rules. What are you doing now? First of all, you are in breach of Regulation 352/17. You impose uniform management on all ports, while the regulation says that the management body selects the way in which it will make the awards. So that's one thing. You also know that the largest number of ports does not have adequate supervision and control, as you also know very well and a procedure has been initiated by the European Commission to amend Directive 59/2000. Mr. Curublis, why are you in a hurry? Why are you in a hurry? The port management bodies you appointed them. Did I appoint them? The ral who appointed her? Did you or did you appoint her? What did they tell you? You were told to see it again, to have a broad consultation, and instead you are bringing about a legislative improvement, supposedly, which photographs. He says: "We cancel all the contests and this arrangement starts on 1/11" a month back. Can you photograph, Mr. Curublis, someone?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u145	Mr. Placiotakis, you've exhausted the time of your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u146	I'm on my way.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u147	If each speaks so much time, we won't finish tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u148	This is where you say that you are in favour of transparency and dignity. And I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. This regulation infringes the concession agreement between ‘COSCO’ and the Greek State. We have pointed this out to you and told you that this is a top issue. It's possible...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u149	Finish, Mr. Placiotakis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u150	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u151	You don't know the issues. Listen a little bit to learn. You don't know the issues. Is it possible to impose on a private body how solid or liquid waste is managed and when environmental damage occurs, ultimately to address the private company, which will not have chosen the contractor? Only you can really do this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u152	Please complete it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u153	And I conclude, ladies and gentlemen of the government, by saying that no one can take SYRIZA ANEL seriously anymore, but as you do, I fear that we are driving and we will finally become an international laugher. Mr. Kurubli, coal the treasure. The New Democracy is voting against this bill. He'll reshape it all. You are not responding to the key issues of shipping. That is why we will not only vote against it, but will also fight at the first opportunity and the opportunity to reform it fully. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u155	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u156	Mr. Papadopoulos, I know. You don't have to. You interrupt every speaker all the time. So let me preside over it. You don't have to suggest me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u157	I'm not making suggestions. I would just like the floor to make a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u158	You want to say something about the procedure? What do you want to say on a point of order? Are you a parliamentary representative?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u159	The procedure is specific. To speak for fifteen minutes, plus the reasonable one - I understand - time, two, three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u160	Yes, Mr. Papadopoulos, I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u161	Let's decide that's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u162	I know, and I'll tell you right now. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u163	If it's not enough time - I understand - let's go to 30 minutes. But when we say something to keep it. So, how's it going to be?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u164	All right, Mr. Papadopoulos, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u165	Why the next ones to talk, what right will you stop them when they go to the twenty-eight minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u166	I'll preside over and settle the procedure. Thank you very much for the remark. Don't worry. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Arvanitides, the special speaker from the Democratic Partnership, has the floor. Nineteen colleagues have been registered so far. If the time is as close as possible to each other’s talk as possible, good things are, at 8 p.m., we calculate to have completed the process. Come on, Mr. Arvanitides. You have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it's not too late than never. It took three years to bring the House a bill for shipping. And, Dr. Dritsa, be careful, because many times since the very maturation there is a fear of rotting. You have also used the word'slapping'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u168	I said a lot has rotted. Not from us from the previous ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u169	Of course you never have a responsibility as always. To date, Minister, your predecessor has only dealt with the issue of the sale of the Piraeus Port Authority, which you will soon do for the port of Thessaloniki and as always "with soul", with "heavy heart", with "pigmentation of sorrow". You are now trained in this kind of behavior. We are listening to you, Minister, to say that you are trying to make the Piraeus successor to City in London and we are wondering if we are living in the same country. You are probably forgetting that your government has deprived the Greek economy of more than EUR 5 billion in shipping currency due to the capital controls. You forget that in our country the banking system is unable to finance the real economy, for which your Government bears a large share of responsibility anymore. Unfortunately, in shipping as in all sectors of the Greek economy, you go with fine words and good intentions. But the citizens, Mr Minister, expect proposals and policies to open up jobs in the maritime profession, which will increase the "multipleness" and the contribution of the maritime sector to the Greek economy. You are a government in a country with more than a million unemployed and with the first bill you bring to Parliament, you are trying to control the transfers to the port and to cover your responsibilities in the pollution of Saronics. That's the reality. These, unfortunately, are your political priorities. But the luxury of hiding behind the mistakes of previous governments no longer exists. You've been holding the steering wheel of the country for several years. You are absolutely responsible for your actions and your omissions. Shipping is a large-scale sector of the economy, especially in a country with strong armaments, capable and experienced seamen, dozens of islands, exceptional seas. But you need to make arrangements. I have repeatedly said that when the narratives fall apart, the ministers become just managers of reality. Of course, if they become good managers, that's very useful to the place. But to know what we're talking about. We need to know where the bar is and the expectations are, what the objective is. If your Government has no plan for shipping, Minister, solve all the problems you can solve and deliver to the next. The country has no time to waste. Shipping is one of the comparative advantages of our production machine and can be a lever of growth, which will lead to upwards and other sectors of the Greek economy. In order to do this, however, it needs a plan, an appetite for work, people capable of bringing results. As a result, Mr Minister, it is political and not good intentions. I also recognised to the committee that we are discussing a bill with several provisions which, in fact, solve problems, provisions that we shall be voting on, even if we consider that they are not perfect or complete, because we understand that they are useful. I have to say, however, that this bill has many contradictions. I'll probably bring you the most important example. With the first part of the bill, a new training and certification system for officials of the Ministry carrying out audits and inspections is set up. At the same time, with Article 106, you remove the competence and the prerogative of the State, to carry out primary checks and certification on ships under Greek flag, providing exclusive services to classification societies. From this decision, the Greek State will lose every year over half a million euros, just to cover political responsibilities for the pollution of Saronics and to disorientate public opinion as always. You're excellent at this. The history of the shipwreck "AYIA ZONI 2" in Saronicos is a story that as long as you continue you are exposed. You came here a month ago to tell us there was no mistake. There was, of course, no resignation, no statement indicating any mistakes made either at political or operational level. You've reached the point where you've been dismantling eighteen members of the Ministry without finding yet, just to get the blame off you. You gave one night to the Prime Minister's shipyard degree and decided that it was all the public's fault. I imagine that if in the next few years we have a big car accident that passed a public KTEO, then Mr. Tsipras will become a transporter and his proposal will be to close the public KTEO because it will not be necessary anymore and because there will be a great problem with the old political system of certifications. You're seen by neoliberals and they're enthusiastic, Minister. That's your logic. It hurts hand, it cuts head. Of course, because you're afraid to tell the truth, you're invoking our own legislation, to say that the dismissal of the Ministry from the primary controls on ships was planned in the past, but it never took place. Minister, this is a lie and you know that very well. We have never talked about the removal of the Greek State from the primary control and inspection procedures on ships. We did what we did in 2003, to decentralise the inspection process, to facilitate small ships in the region. It is precisely the opposite of what you are doing when you come and remove the possibility in the local monitoring steps of the Ministry to issue certificates. With this decision once again lost, the small shipowners, who will have to pay the cucumber. Travel policy. That's how you can characterize it. The big ones have already gone, Minister, to the classification societies, and you are well aware of that. So stop crying over shell milk and make sure that the state machine is prepared better, so that in future it will be possible to deal effectively with small or large cases of marine pollution from shipwrecks. That's the essence, Minister, not the tricks you're going to do. You also know very well that the regulation you bring applies only to Greek flag ships. For thousands of ships flying the flag of Greece on a daily basis, exactly what was true yesterday will apply. If this sinks off, if a large foreign flag tanker has an accident, the bill you brought, it can't do anything. That's the reality. The same applies to Article 108, where you are applying the global originality of the age limit to ships carrying fuel to ports, a provision that no matter how much you look, you will not meet anywhere in the world. The crucial, Minister, is that the ship should be properly controlled, that is to say, that the verifier whether the ship is airworthy, to decide whether it is appropriate to take or not to obtain a certificate. All the rest is for communication consumption. So don't tell us that you care about the protection of the environment, because, in Article 128, you relax national environmental legislation, because, as you say, it is very strict and creates problems of competitiveness on the Greek flag. Two measures, therefore, and two weights depending on what suits it each time. I now come to the part concerning the port transfer system. There are two topics here: one topic of substance and one topic of behaviour. I'm starting with the stuff. You say in the explanatory statement that you are strengthening transparency in port transfers because the Minister will sign them. Indeed, I have heard Mr Santorini say to the committee that it will be possible for the Minister to check whether everything was done in accordance with the law. Can you explain to us practically what that means? What kind of control will the Minister finally do? Article 50 says that the Board of Appeal is responsible, not the Minister. Unless you tell us that every year the Minister's office will do preventive control over all transfers, thus blocking the system and never moving forward. As much as you have tried to convince us in committee that the signature of the Minister in the transfer tables is a formal procedure, we believe that it leaves a lot of room for extra-institutional intervention, which is why we will vote against it. I now come to the points of conduct and the way in which you deal with the issue with the workers. You're - you're supposed to - a left government you care about for their rights. You are therefore bringing in a regulation, a system of transfers, abstractions and transfers with which they disagree. Instead of withdrawing it, withdrawing the relevant provisions and discussing them, you are playing in the committee with the opposition of the trade union movement. If you really want, Minister, to help the workers, to sit down and talk to them. It's not right to put them across and fight. If there are different views within the federation, it is a matter that does not concern you and should not take advantage of it. The Minister has to make a policy, not a micropolitical one. Of course Mr Skourletis also goes to the Ministry of the Interior with Amendment No 1343, which we shall also vote against. Really if you believe that by dividing and reigning you will go away, you are making a huge mistake. We have also expressed objections to other articles in the bill, where due to a lack of time I do not have time to comment in detail. However, I shall mention Article 85, for the end of pleasure boats and boats which bear heavy burdens on small ships and reduce the discount from 50% to 25% for professional pleasure boats, without, of course, having any plans for how this money will be invested in our ports and in our marinas. I would remind you that the amount you have as a goal of collecting is EUR 15 million. I now come to Article 106 on waste management in ports. We have also explained to the committee that the political bet we need to win is to open up competition, reduce waste management costs, and so ships bring their waste to land for processing, instead of throwing it at sea. In this sense, Article 105 finds us to be in agreement, rather than, of course, the malicious things that one can easily see, many of which have been corrected by legal corrections. But you must, Minister, answer two key issues so that the House knows whether there is a risk of having problems in the future. I am referring to the debate that took place in the committees on the compatibility of Article 105 with the Concession Convention and the law of the European Union. I close with a very important issue, outside of a bill, which is about the Ministry of Shipping. Because these days Parliament is discussing the budget, I would like to remind you of the need to reintroduce the reduced VAT by 30% on our islands, as provided for in Article 21 in the Code of Added Value Tax, including in addition to Rhodes and Karpathos. I would remind you that this is a conquest in favour of the inhabitants of the difficult islands of the country, which is signed by Andreas Papandreou and which remained unscathed until 2015, despite the fiscal crisis which hit the country. The abolition of this special regime by the SYRIZA - ANEL government leads to a series of serious problems, which are very clearly reflected in a study by the Lesbos Chamber of Deputies. I am thinking of increasing the cost of life, reducing the competitiveness of products produced on the islands, reducing the competitiveness of the tourist product, closing thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises and larger enterprises, increasing unemployment and ultimately degrading the lives of our islands. This is, ladies and gentlemen, the reality of the coup d'état. This is your big offer to the island of Greece. This, finally, is the result of the proud negotiation that you have been making over the last three years. If, indeed, you think you can correct a big mistake, we will bring an amendment to bring the reduced VAT back to the islands from 1-1-2018, which we invite you to vote on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u170	Thank you very much, Mr Arvanitides, and the consistency in time. Mr Kouzilos, rapporteur for the Golden Dawn, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u171	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, too, for your tolerance for the time you give me. For the record to begin, for the first time he came to the public consultation on 27-4-2016, the second time on 25-5-2016 and 23 November 2017 in plenary. One who sees the title and watches it in the consultation, sees that it has nothing to do with the bill that we saw in the consultation, what we took for plenary. You say that you are bringing in a functional, practical, effective draft law, a law on upgrading, democratisation and transparency. By the word democratization, what do you mean? Transparency as happened with ral, which on one night didn't exist - did you change it - to get into some of your own kids? Like "Athens ZONI 2" and everything that's been done? Transparency and upgrading that is not actually upgraded but degrades the Port House with all that you bring. Are you telling the porter "Kallikratis", which you are continuing with? Upgrade are you saying politics, keeping from the Barvitsiotis Act still the Organic Connection of the Port House to the eight thousand people? You say you brought a bill with a social sign and you state that the state has not abandoned its executives. About the social sign to tell you that personal equipment is paid out of their pocket, uniforms, etc. from their pocket, you still owe the retired swords and medals, the club exists only in Piraeus, the costs of overnight stays there is a problem. You also tabled an amendment on 28-3-2014 to the Law of Varvitsiotis on these issues. The risk and business allowances and wage promotions are cut or rather frozen, as you say in your reply under protocol number 3174. Why? Because you're no longer in charge, it's the troika. With the border allowance, what has happened? Did we forget that, too? What you are saying is the daily life of the representatives of the Port Authority.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u172	Don't they get the frontier allowance?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u173	Yes, but it's not the same, Mr. Kurubli. It's not the same with all the cuts that have been made. Let's see another social sign, as you were saying. Let's see the NAT. Tasos Petropoulos, State Secretary for Labour: "We will keep NAT's selflessness, we will look for the property of NAT, etc." With the Ahchioglu law and Achtsoglou signatures - Petropoulou the property of NAT passed to EFKA. NAT's property only has its building and a car and nothing else. All these are promises that you made in the election, all that you said and fed. You're talking about radical planning. Radical planning is what you changed all the bills from consultation and brought something completely different? There is something completely different from consultation in plenary. In this way you continue the degradation of the port, transfers, secondments, transfers and disciplinary control. Do you morally support the Port Corps? When will you establish a Remembrance Day of the Port Body? And that's why the New Democracy is responsible. On 27-06-2013, there was a question. Minister Miltiades Varvitsiotis: "We will do it." On 4-03-2015, a question was asked. Minister, Panagiotis Kouroublis: "We will do so." Another issue of moral order, because you say that you have not abandoned the representatives of the Port House, but here Mr. Voutsis himself has responsibility. Question to parliamentary scrutiny under number 4826/14/04-2016 on the adoption of children of fallen officials of the Port House from the House. The Ministry of Shipping declares it irresponsible. We sent a letter to the President of Parliament, with protocol number 3765-29-09-2016, and we received no reply. So, we understand and we all see how much you care about. You see a uniform and you get allergy. That goes through our minds. I'm going through the bill now. In Part I ‘Inspectors - Auditors’, indicate that a complete and clear system of training, certification and competence of inspectors is provided for. Maybe there were some positive parts of it in the consultation. After "Athens ZONI" you change everything and we see the first part completely different. And of course everything is done by a presidential decree. In what we have asked you about Chapter I, we have not received a reply. Four committees, no answer. With Article 15, do you abolish paragraphs 4,5,6 of Law 4150/213, where it says? "The Minister" and where it says "the Minister" in Article 14 of Law 4150, you have deleted them. And that's very natural. But you forgot something else. Change the Ministry's website at the Ships Inspectorate, which says the certificates are issued by the Ships Inspectorate. Change the page at least of the Ministry. And we again stress that inspectors are natural persons designated by the flag State to carry out checks, and with what you are doing, they will in fact not be able to carry out checks. Let's go to the next one. Who's going to do the technical studies? There have also been comments in consultation with us in the committee, as well as with the Technical Chamber. With all Chapter I, you could at some point say that this will build Piraeus' new "House". You're doing it a lot back to Piraeus' House, unfortunately. In Part II, concerning matters of security, policing and personal radiopharmaceuticals, a very simple thing you have done two and a half years to bring it. And in relation to research and rescue, we have proposed you a long time ago - we have told you since 2015 - but we have told you once again: Research and Rescue Center in Kastelorizo. I'm coming to Part IV on strategic planning. We are talking about a subordinated Port Authority and you say that you want to restructure. Where? Seven and a half thousand executives. If you wanted to do so, bring again the Law 4150 that existed and predicted an organic composition of ten thousand five hundred or eleven thousand or go back to the thirteen thousand that we were talking about having the Greek Coast Guard. In 2014, however, the law of the Minister for Administrative Reform, Mrs Mitsotakis, and of the ten hundred, downloads the organic composition of the Port at seven thousand, rather the ceiling of eight thousand. If you want to do something - as you say you will re-evaluate this issue, in 2015 Theodoros Dritsas - you need to change the presidential decree, so that the Port Authority can not just be subordinated, but be able to function. But, in order to be able to do this, you should not have a troika above you that tells you about recruitment in public one by four. That's where you stick, that's the problem. As you do with the supplies of the Port House, where you say we will obtain floating, air and others, but on the basis of whether the budget deficit and public debt are affected. I'm coming to Part E, which includes staff issues. We disagree and vote against the article on identities with the identifiable zone mechanism, to which our parliamentary representative will refer. Also, you're changing the organic positions. I told you before our position on the organic composition of the Port Authority. But there is another point: the way you legislate is that you do not actually fix something. The hierarchical evolution of the new officers cannot be corrected. He'll be stuck again sometime as it had been in the New Democracy. We'll have the same problems again. Part F. Certainly by strengthening social participation in coastal shipping - the protection of workers in business has been something that we have been saying for years - we need more legislation and initiatives to ensure that workers and all seafarers are guaranteed. Part Z is about regulating the training system of the Port Body. We have not received any answers - and we are still waiting for the answers - about the Academy, if the space, money, if there is a recommendation and staffing. And we are now talking about a question from 2015. Part VIII concerns civil servants. As far as the well-paid staff are concerned, we are once again stressing the position of WIPO. Upgrade maritime education, retraining with the coverage of JESC shortages and improve the functioning of AENs and in any event not to abolish the public maritime education system. For Rule 85, amending Law 2935, which is in fact a formal article, we tell you not for the following reason: why is there not - I told you in committee - the Greek Coast Guard. The end of ships doesn't have to say much. The agencies said it. However, it has also given us the impression that the ending of ships has been brought to us by the New Democracy. Here, too, we see on 9-1-2017 and on 23-7-2015 asking questions about the end of ships. Eventually, you want it or you don't want it? What do you want? Because you brought it. SYRIZA just to raise money for the troika triggers it. Part I is entitled 'Regions of competence of the Secretariat-General for Port Policy'. As far as the register is concerned, it also took two and a half years. You can solve various issues very easily. What are you doing? You're getting everything back. If all this had come in the first time that it had come to the consultation, most of these problems would not exist. Many of these problems that have been created at the moment would have been solved, even half. Or we could have the time. At the moment there is no time to be solved. For Article 106 of Part I, I won't say anything else. I'm just going to file the Naval Chamber memo in the minutes. I think he's saying everything. That's enough. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Kouzilos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] ‘Amendment of Law 4256/2014’. Why did you get them out of consultation, or did you change them? Listen to what all the institutions said in consultation: 'You are ignorant', 'it is a crime', 'you are out of reality', 'all the institutions are negative', 'it will be slaughtered', 'you are ignorant of the subject'. Part I, entitled 'Modification of a ship surveillance system'. Everyone's against it. And we don't know why you're still insisting on this. All this, which happened after the shipwreck of "SYIA ZONI", why did it happen? First of all, you're the original one. Why? ASA has not even given a conclusion. Naval justice has given nothing, there's nothing. What are the responsibilities? The ship inspection industry was responsible and we see Mr Drivakos making a statement - quite rightly he did - 'not in the conflict of this House'. The Federation in the bars for this matter! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I ask for a little tolerance, Mr President. What else are you doing? Drop the ball on the classifications. We also asked you in committee: Which classification societies left the day you met and told them that they would take over those certificates? Two top classificationists left the meeting? That's the question. Because we are talking about this particular issue, we should emphasise again and say again that under Article 195 of the Code of Public Maritime Law, the Minister has an absolute responsibility. I put it in the Minutes, so you can see it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Kouzilos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We have New Democracy, which talks about the Ship Inspection. When he was the PASOK government, he asked questions and said: "Not in the dissolution of the Ships Inspectorate, you don't shield it, you don't regulate it, you do some fishing arrangements." And what finally happened? SYRIZA is now coming under "Agia ZONI 2", and we have these problems in shipping. We asked you again and we told you again in committee: can you tell us about safety and pollution prevention issues, what they mean for this article, because for us it is a huge 'window', as is Article 130 'Consolidation on the construction, equipment and control of ships'? Not only are they a 'window', but they are very strange articles. I will close with Chapter III for the strains of the Port Body, transfers, disciplinary, etc., where from the very first moment when the new administration of the Federation has asked you for one thing: to withdraw it. You, not just didn't do it, but you keep going the same thing. In committee, we saw the Pan-Hellenic Association of Port Corps officers not coming. And he was right to do it. He's given it to a memo, he's told it, he's been through it before. It didn't sound at all. Is that why you didn't do the consultation? Didn't you say that you had been consulting for two, two and a half years? And what was the result? As a result, PESAS did not come, submit a memorandum and the Federation did not just oppose it, but tells you to withdraw it. We see that this has to be withdrawn, too. You are creating problems with Part III. We're not gonna tell you about the Minister, but they're showing us some things. For example, the political leader cannot be the Secretary-General of the Ministry in disciplinary matters. How do we do it? The Port Corps has been autonomous since 1919. He made us something else impression. You're trying to give them an opinion. It's actually not. Can you understand that? The Port Corps is self-sufficient. It's working on its own. The Chief has the right to make regulations. He can regulate his house. You just sign, you're dominating. And with what you bring, as with the "Polish Kallikratis" that will create many problems, as with organic compositions, no one is smiling in the Port House at this time. I am presenting for the Minutes and the record of the PES which did not come to committee. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Kouzilos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You say you shape, upgrade and do a hundred things well. In fact, you have taken a bill, you have changed it all - you have left nothing - and brought it to Parliament and you serve your own ideas. We are voting in favour of the principle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Mr. Kouzilo. The reason for 15 minutes is Mrs Diamanto Manolakou, a special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u175	Although Greece is almost everywhere wet by sea, it has a rich and beautiful island complex, it could use and develop it to the benefit of the people. This is not the case, however, and most of the protests of the islands are for the lack of transport ships. Why? Because in capitalism, ports and infrastructures in the country they are neither popular property nor are part of the fulfilment of social needs, but they are subject to the needs of capital. So, what has privileges and profits is logistics, from the exploitation of workers and infrastructure, with decisive interventions, policies and economics, within and outside the country's international relations, by strengthening the links of the local bourgeoisie with the imperialist centres of the United States, the European Union and NATO. So, those who don't know about it, the Greek-owned commercial fleet is part of the strategic planning of imperialist interventions and wars, like NATO's fourth weapon. Are you correcting any of these through the bill in favour of people's needs? But you are perpetuating the same policy and that is why it is classic in favour of shipowners and authoritarians, who are intensified by the exploitation of seafarers and the manipulation of workers in the Port House. It is no coincidence, moreover, that Greek shipowners are first in the global ranking of shipping, even during the period of the capitalist crisis. They didn't know a crisis. They gained losses, increased fleet capacity and profits, through the intensity of seafarers' exploitation, by hitting collective labour contracts, sweeping changes in social security, taxed, over hundreds of thousands of fishermen and with provocative tax exemptions and new privileges that continue. What's left, Mr. Dritsa, to the seafarers is thanks to their struggles. Nothing's pleasing. And now I come to a series of articles. You're satisfying claims of arm's length capital. You have exploited and used as an alibi the shipwreck in Salamis of the "AYIA ZONI 2" tanker, huge ecological pollution and widespread fuel smuggling not to correct shortcomings, gaps, weaknesses, weaknesses of the Ministry of Shipping and the Port Authority, but to continue the policy of the previous governments by further downgrading the shipping industry. You don't upgrade him. The previous governments have drastically reduced staff, equipment, infrastructure, ship control and laundering. However, also means of loading, machinery and other means of transport have been assigned to classification societies and other private companies, which, of course, are controlled by the shipowners. You continue, covering up your shortcomings and responsibilities, and now you are presenting solutions. Who? By entrusting individuals with control of safety not only of all ships, but also of small vessels, which will be forced to pay the private. In other words, instead of improving the functioning of the commercial ship control sector, which has problems and is well known, instead of taking measures for proper staffing, modernising equipment, implementing audit procedures and carrying out checks on classification societies, which operate uncontrollably, your solutions are to give everything to the classification societies, all to the capital. So satisfy the requirements for more privileges to shipowners and greater profits: Remove the sole state control body and ensure all responsibilities to classification societies. Of course they are involved in them and shipowners to sell certificates of airworthiness, i.e. the controlr will also be a verifier. No control by state inspectors of the quality of inspections on ships carried out by classification inspectors is foreseen anywhere. The only regular checks are those carried out through their offices. For the inspections of ships that the classification societies certify are not particularly mentioned, which is something we have stressed. It is doubtful whether in such circumstances their certificates will respond to the actual state of the ships. In fact, you are opening up production and export of certificates from the offices of the classification societies. In fact, no inspectors are certified for shipbuilding, engineering and other sectors. We have heard that from institutions too. What do you still tolerate and maintain? The Navy Fingers' Fingers' Fingers. How? In the Maritime Register - and I submit a copy to see it - the criteria for registration and deletion from the register are used to gather maritime brochures, do not write unemployed seafarers to the GENE, hide unemployment and beat fighters too. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Diamanto Manolaku, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice.]] We say to you it is unacceptable in the maritime brochure - and see what we have submitted - and in the maritime registries infrastructure of the Ministry of Shipping it is also stored in the shipowners' infrastructure to include the justification for dismissing the seafarer with a characteristic code, which has denounced all the maritime trade unions and which is the individual mobile file of each seafarer. Proposals to limit the liability of shipowners for naval claims or compensation for loss of life or physical damage are also adopted in the bill. And of course, to 'committee' such as the Port Development Planning Committee, you put like parsleys those who have the fat wages. Yes, you put them as representatives. Of course, all this is in contradiction with the proposals of the class labour movement. It shows that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, like the former Republic of New Democracy and PASOK, with the intensification of the work of seafarers, the continuous reductions in the organic positions of caravans and the inhuman hours, which arrive until seventy-two hours of work a week, finally have your signature. You are with the shipowners and you do not calculate the dramatic impact they will have on increasing accidents by putting passengers and seafarers at risk, as well as environmental pollution, because the criterion is capitalist profit and not man's needs. But even when workers work and are not paid - and I am talking about Article 78, I note that it is only about crews, and you should also put offices, because they are also unpaid - you are giving nothing more than what is in place for the non-paid work. In other words, they will not pass the total wage, but only the basic salary, without allowances and other remuneration. That's why the shipowners also thank you. We have tabled an amendment for the payment of all remuneration, but also for the right to criminal justice, with a representation of a political appeal in favour of the worker, so that there can be a result. Otherwise, if you do not take them into consideration, we will be expressed with 'the present'. We think it's half. Vessel profits are also served by the right you give to pleasure boats with a total length of up to twenty-four meters being allowed to land without serving master and crew. But the protection of human life is being jeopardised. As is unacceptable forty, forty and fifty years of boats, which are floating bombs, should have carried shipping fuel, while for many years they should have been brought to the solvents for old iron, when we have a skilled workforce, with experience in the shipyards Scaramaga Elefsina, in the Zone, in Perama and in Syros and it is decommissioned. Eventually, is this your fair development? As far as unemployed seafarers are concerned, however, according to the YEN figures, in September 2017 from the thousand four hundred and fifty-nine unemployed, the allowance only received a hundred and seventy-five, i.e. 12%. And we ask: why don't you adopt the proposal of the maritime unions to submit to the General Assembly crew states, all Greek vessels and all crew replacements, all seafarers with collective labour and social security contracts? You don't adopt it because it costs shipowners. But you care for them to get the fillets through the partitioning of the ferry transport network in areas, breaking the single character of the coastline and thus exacerbating the situation that prevails in the service of the islands. I'll tell you something everyone needs to know. The State is obliged to ensure a regular connection between the islands and the mainland. You go to build schemes that have been outdated since the 1980s, which have literally been bankrupt and have been responsible for the workers and inhabitants of the islands. And this shape is tested both in Greece and France and it went bankrupt. We are not petty to support even a little good. We know the agony of the islanders. However, you are creating as an alibi the link between the ports of the islands and the islands with the ports of the mainland through partnerships between shipping companies and local and regional authorities. You're creating PPP. This is exactly the position of the Shipbuilding Association. It is so, after they have taken 1,000,000 euros, which is the bleeding of people's incomes, through state funding from 2001 to 2017, with fertile lines vehicle. That's right! The shipowners are subsidizing. Alas, from the world! As far as the Port House is concerned, transfers, secondments, moves are made by the Minister, and say what you want. You are taking care of and throwing the Transmissions Council into the trash. You do not institutionalise a worthwhile transfer system that will serve the needs of their staff, their families and the social system as a whole. On the contrary, you are creating more and more problems. There must be representation in the Councils of Transfers from the trade unions elected, who, as they said at the hearing, expected to see provisions on issues that torture them, such as the operation of children's stations, the coverage of the cost of travel and not the transfer of stakeholders on their request, without the right to travel. There is no doubt that reform of the legislation is required. We do not agree with the existing system, but there must be a modern system of transfers, as the representatives of the Union are calling for. What are you guys doing? Promote customer relationships with the staff of the Port House. In fact, with the legislative improvements you have made, many points are getting worse. As far as staff evaluation is concerned, the system is inadequate, anachronistic and anachronistic. There are photographic provisions relating to staff developments and reasonably ask questions, since they do not regulate a single and structured one. The fragmentary regulation creates conflicts between staff and clientele relations and the regulations on hierarchical evolution lead to a distinction between men and women, when 40% of the staff are now women. We ask you to withdraw this article because it is an inequality and discrimination between the staff of the Port Authority, which concerns women but also men. The Government also intends to further adapt the Port House mechanism to its modern mission, which is part of the European External Action Service and NATO by further militarising the staff of the Port House and strengthening EUROPOL and FRONTEX. As far as education is concerned, although it is in the title of the bill, you do not present the curriculum, infrastructure, school organization, teaching and administrative staff, but refer them to presidential decrees. Also, nowhere in the bill is the establishment of training schools on the objects that the Port Authority deals with, in order for its staff to have up-to-date knowledge, regardless of the service they serve. Cooperation with military schools for postgraduate programmes does not solve the problems faced by the Port Authority, which are largely different from those of the Armed Forces. However, generalized extension of working hours to civil servants will further exacerbate the same unacceptable interference in maritime education and retraining of schools. The basic training for many seafarers is essentially inexistent. We are asking for permanent, undetermined, permanent teachers to be recruited with full employment and insurance rights, in line with the needs of the schools. We are also not negative in Articles 106 and 117. However, you do not treat smuggling because you do not support the process of burning, quality and quantity of shipping fuels. I conclude with two articles that are authoritarian and terrorist, Article 115 on monitoring everything, and Article 132 on setting up monitoring mechanisms in the port with sound and image recording systems in uniforms that are pretentious to combating crime. This is a broad authorisation which is not under the authority of the prosecutor, but under the responsibility of the Ministry of Shipping, when such a step exists in the EEA. It raises serious concerns about this article and must be withdrawn. All in all, we are voting in favour of the principle. We shall vote on a few articles and two ministerial amendments. However, the Minister should tell us what he accepts and we will be placed in our dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theory, after taking part in the educational programme "Research and we are discussing Governor Ioannis Kapodistrias" organized by the Foundation, twenty-three students and students and two teachers from the 10th High School of Ilio. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Ioannis Saridis has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, is Greece a maritime country today? Are the Greeks still a seafarer? What does the word "individuality" mean for the Greek state? What's our long naval tradition worth? Do the words of Pericles once said today, what Thucydides saved and which you, Minister Kurublis, repeated during the development of your argument in the committees, 'the great state of the sea'? What exactly does it mean? What do you think, Minister, that the seventeen-year-olds, those who are now voting, have understood you repeat these words? Did they realize the power of the sea is great? Or did they realize that any state that controls the sea has a big power? Or something else? It would be interesting to seek how society today is officially interpreting Pericles' words as an organized state. In any case, the geographical relief of our country does not permit deceit. We have so many kilometres of coastlines we want - we do not want, whether we are capable of using them or not, we are a country navy, we are a nation navy and we continue to write history in the seas from the Homer era to today. However undeniably they are, it does not change the fact that we will not easily find a Greek citizen who believes that we have fully and adequately exploited our power as a maritime country. It makes sense, since our country's economic situation does not allow us to be victorious in any area at all. What is absurd and unacceptable, however, is to stop believing that we are capable and worthy, that we can finally achieve it. Ladies and gentlemen, the only article in the seventh chapter of the bill, Article 79, is, in my opinion, the heart of this bill. According to this, we are today deciding that the mandate of the Port Corps will be carried out through the Greek examinations. This is a good decision, which the Centroon Union will also support with its vote. It is true that this decision, in conjunction with the provisions of Articles 1 to 15, which are the first chapter of the draft law, convinces us that the Ministry is in fact seeking to achieve a significant improvement in maritime education and to ensure that the very high level of qualifications available to domestic human resources in the maritime sector is maintained and improved. It is also true that the current situation in this area is marked by ambiguity, blurred points and infraction. So you have rightly chosen to listen to what we as the Central Association have argued, namely that in order to change things, the education provided by the state should first be strengthened. Unfortunately, however, while we are positive about this legislative initiative by the Government, we are not convinced of much. Will we, for example, have time to be ready to apply Article 79 already since the next 2018 exams? In any case, the government should ensure that it is clear about the responsible information for the children who are preparing to give an examination of what will ultimately be the case. I am going to comment on the question of evaluation. The Centro Association has made clear its position vis-à-vis the question of evaluation in public. It is necessary and necessary, but this must be done with the support and cooperation of the vast majority of workers, and indeed in an organised, transparent and scientifically sound manner. In view of the fact that so far there has been an excellent and vague framework within which we have to work on a number of specialities in the maritime sector, we are, in the first place, dealing with this aim in a positive way. I would like to dwell in particular on Article 60, by which the state finally assumes its responsibilities and equates the cadets with those who are active in the unaccompanied situation that become incapable of service. On the positive side, we also count on the military service provided for in Article 65, although it is only for one year, regardless of real time, but also for those provided for in Articles 66 and 70 for the personnel of the Submarine Mission Unit and their formal qualifications. We also consider the regulation of Article 69 to effectively cover the health needs of a significant proportion of our fellow citizens who do not have access to public hospitals. We hope that the participation in the disciplinary and aid fund established by Article 73 will strengthen democratic expression in an area that really needs it. Article 89 on the access of SMEs should become a reality immediately and we will check any delays at this point. Article 100, which provides for the establishment and functioning of the very important register, the most crucial one - we would say - to effectively combat infringement, is an essential step towards transparency and we are struggling with the Union of Centres for its proper implementation. The establishment and use of the famous POS could not apply as compulsory in this sector of our economy as provided for in Article 101. The establishment and operation of the Port Users Council, as described in the provisions of Article 105, is a decision that we should have really taken for some time now. It is certain - and everyone admits it - that it will improve the quality of the services provided. With regard to the provisions of Articles 107 to 110 contained in the tenth chapter of the draft, I would like to comment on the fact that I consider the choice of the word 'transformation' very appropriate to describe the very substantial change made by transferring the competence of checks to classification societies. The sure thing is that we have to consider, unfortunately, too many tragic incidents to understand the extent of the changes required in ship supervision and control issues. The decision to transfer responsibility to classification societies is a very important, a very critical decision, which, as it seems to be more likely to result as a result of the tragedy that we have experienced, rather than as a deliberate energy for modernisation. However, we understand the importance of ensuring citizens and the public interest of choosing a reliable operating system for ship supervision and control. This is a realistic choice, we would say. The fact that the audit framework will eventually be strengthened remains to be proved in practice. The introduction of a maximum age limit for shipping fuels, provided for in Article 109, is based on a logic which is easily understood by the citizens and with which I personally agree, yet it conceals a weakness, a lack of confidence in the maintenance procedures of ships. The eleventh and final chapter also contains some very critical provisions. In Article 114 the Ministry, in an effort to address the international phenomenon of the "revolving door", which essentially refers to the transfer of state officials to the private sector as soon as they leave or retire from the public sector, proceeds to establish the logic of the ban. Whoever controls on behalf of the public can not know that a post with a gross fee is awaiting him in the company of the controlled. Very important are also the forecasts for the "Nation of the Navy", for the naval companies, for the gradients, but also for the NAT. I close my report with the comment on Article 106, which has also been the subject of discussion. With the logic of opening up markets and professions to be imposed on us in every way in a number of other areas and because, as the Central Association, we support and believe that when competition operates in a stable environment and within a clear and clear framework, then it works in favour of the citizen and prices are reduced and not the value of services, we consider it necessary to move forward with a corresponding regulation for the crucial area of the management of port waste. We are not convinced, however, that by Article 106 you will achieve the result you claim, and that is why we will vote'residents' in this article. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill under discussion is extremely complex, large in volume and has been dealing with sensitive issues which have been pending for years. It was appropriate to comment on Mr Dritsa, who spoke about arrangements that have been left in drawers for years, and the designation of 'original' exceeds them. We therefore support the effort to change, but we will vote 'at present', especially because we are not convinced that the real competences of the state have been taken seriously into account here today. We will monitor closely the implementation of this law and the implementation of what is provided for in the articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, Mr Saridis, and the economy in time. Mr. Spyridon Danellis, special speaker of the river, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a bill from the Ministry of Shipping which has been waiting for the goodwill for some time, considering that the consultation of the main torso was completed in February 2017. It is a bill dealing with a number of issues, with provisions on ports, the controls of commercial ships, maritime education, pilot service, the staff of the Port Authority, but also of civil servants, on issues of education, transfer, secondments and transfers. It contains 134 articles, broken down into 12 parts of different gravity and different targets. One could say that it concerns almost all Greek shipping, as well as the Ministry of Oversight. Such a bill certainly solves and regulates too many and years of loose ends, as it of course raises a number of issues in other respects. However, for the same reasons the bill under discussion is not easy to treat as a single set. A general remark that goes beyond the positive or negative of any provisions could be that certain arrangements in the draft law do not ensure for a transitional period, i.e. how to pass on to new prospects. It does not specify timelines, but also individual steps, where these are necessary in some cases. For example, under Article 79 there is a radical change in the method of introduction and education in the schools of the Hellenic Coast Guard. The introduction with full-final examinations from the academic year 2018-2019 is being introduced, that is, from the coming year, something with which one can obviously agree, since it means upgrading the House. Nevertheless, there are still several undetermined individual issues, which will of course have to be clarified quickly. But let me turn to the provisions which have monopolized the interest of most of the colleagues in the committee's meetings. With regard to Article 105, which is one of the most important articles in the draft, which concerns the provision of port services for the reception and management of ship and cargo waste, I think that it cannot be denied the correctness of improving the conditions under which this economic activity is carried out. Today existing companies, exclusive providers - contractors to Greek organisations throughout the territory are only three. This is an extremely narrow oligopoly for an important service. On these conditions, I think that no one can agree with the liberalisation of such a market. The positive effects of this article shall also be credited to the creation of an electronic waste register. This is an old story that is finally being implemented. However, if the regulation is to be completed, it should be provided for in the register and a subcategory for marine waste. It is another comment on this article, which is, in fact, an intermediate post before the implementation of the relevant European directive. The issue raised by the PPA, i.e. whether incompatibilities are created with the concessions. That is what I think needs to be cleared up now, Minister, so that we do not have unpleasant procedures tomorrow. Equally central to the bill is the provisions relating to changes in the control of commercial ships. It could not be otherwise, given the recent, unprecedented, ecological disaster caused by the shipwreck of the fatal "Agios ZONI 2", a fiasco that resulted from apparent failure of structures and persons, which are not only present, but is a timeless phenomenon for the Greek state machine. Prolongations of validity of airworthiness attestations without control, whether for reasons of lack of time or of quality of operation or for other reasons necessarily coming to the mind of all of us - these are certainly not the reasons why all the RIS officials are wrong - are, unfortunately, a reality, because, so far, a fundamental question has not been answered, how can an authority be both auditor and audited at the same time. In our case, clearing this basic rule is a priority. Article 106, therefore, which deals with the transformation of the Ship Control Branch, provides that from 30-9-2018 onwards the issue of certificates of Greek ships from the Ship Control Branch to the port authorities and the local inspection stadiums, i.e. from the state machinery and their responsibilities, is to be assigned to the authorised classification societies, with the exception of certain categories of checks. The Ministry now holds for itself a purely supervisory and audit function. Our objection lies in how the new system will be created at regional level. What do I mean? In the remote regions, the difficulty of accessing and demanding a direct response seems to be causing problems, which will certainly increase the cost of the service. That is our concern, Minister, and we need to have a regulation, a solution to these kinds of issues which will emerge quickly. However, we cannot refuse to try to resolve this basic, essential service. Under the impressions created by the incomprehensible shipwreck referred to above, Article 108 on the conditions for the carriage of shipping fuels is also in progress. This is another sad story of years. Restriction on only the age of the ship, however, is obviously not enough and, moreover, it is simplistic. In addition, paragraph (c) expressly states that Union legislation will apply from 1-1 to 2022 regardless of the age of a ship. We are therefore talking about a transitional phase until this legislation is in force. It's obviously a fragmentary solution. However, in understanding the reasons for it, we will vote in favour of it, because I think that the main criterion and the main concern are inspection, so that the ship will be able to meet the required service, so that it can meet the safety requirements. To highlight as very positive the arrangements for strategic planning. Finally, we are trying to rationalise the procurement programme of specific time horizons with priorities and of course with respect to the real economic potential of the state budget, which will make it realistic and effective. Because it is clear that the volume of the bill, but also the time available to me, do not allow me to comment in detail on all the provisions, I will be selective in certain articles which, in our view, need to be debated in particular. For example, the regulation of Article 86 which legalises the existing port infrastructure, despite the fact that it is both positive and necessary and has been requested for years now, has not improved in the way we asked for during the debate on the draft law in committees. In particular, the proposed provision regulates issues of the legalisation of existing port facilities in ports of international and major interest or national importance, which have not been legally enforced by 29 April 2013, even if they have not been designated for haya-treated zones, and set the margin by 1-1-2020 for the completion of its demarcation. There are difficult cases that we haven't worked for years. I fear that some of them - I mentioned Lakki of Leros during the debate on the committees - may not have these procedures completed in 2020. So we need to predict what will happen if we have not completed the delimitation. There is also a need for some provision for port projects and facilities located on small islands, which cannot be managed by an operator, but are necessary for local communities. The spatial management body of a region or island, for example the municipality of the port fund, with its request and with the agreement of the relevant port authority and OTA to legalise such facilities, to include them in its administration, to monitor their security issues and, of course, to maintain them, in accordance with existing legislation. Furthermore, there is also the known paradox: it is not possible for the State to require of itself that fines be paid - arbitrary compensation for ports built with the tolerance of its own services, i.e. the local port authorities and for the service of citizens. But this article, I fear, leaves room for a new generation of arbitrary people in the port areas, which we must make sure it does not happen. I would also like to dwell on Article 91 in which the possibility of direct assignments to the Port Agency for maintenance and repair works of up to EUR 20 000 VAT, which, by decision of the Secretary-General, may reach EUR 100 000 now. I understand that this provision is useful because it gives a flexibility and it is necessary if a port is damaged by bad weather and rapid repairs and interventions need to be made so that ship routes or its use can be uninterrupted. However, this economic retreat, I think, can create problems and small maintenance projects for ports that can be all given by direct delegation, as well as the fragmentation of projects. Something must be avoided. Article 101 makes amendments to the Aviation Service Law 3142/55. The proposed provision regulates the question of the curriculum, which allows younger people to hold the necessary diplomas for the operation of the Pilot Agency. It also provides for the need for a genuine long-term maritime service on commercial ships or Greek warships and covers any gaps in the service by maintaining in the active action of pilots with the necessary experience. Ladies and gentlemen, the maritime economy and shipping in general can provide us with a wide range of job creation, provided that the appropriate qualified staff are available. Nowadays, unemployment is the first social problem we have to face. We see that at times of very high unemployment, such as today, there are branches and specialties which lack skilled personnel. The Navigation Agency is one of these cases. Here, then, there is a glorious field, and I think we need to respond to these opportunities, because the question of education and the creation of new managers with knowledge and skills is a top issue that should concern us more generally as political staff and not just the government itself. I move to Rule 104 on the setting-up of Port Users Councils. Clearly it is a positive provision, but since every port has its own peculiarities and peculiarities, we should, Minister, provide for greater flexibility in its composition so that the representatives of the region concerned participate in the Council's composition. We also find the provisions of Articles 83 and 113 positive. The first relates to maintaining the obligation to submit declarations ‘from the outset’, and 113 relates to increasing transparency in matters relating to the competence of the Ministry of Shipping, in particular, it provides for a three-year ban on employment for former officials to external economic operators, contractors, etc., relating to performance of contracts by the Ministry. Such provisions defend the public interest and healthy competition. They are a mandatory code of conduct, which should probably be extended to other public services and bodies, but this does not mean that it should not be provided for the staff concerned. Finally, I will repeat, Minister, what I mentioned earlier in the committee meeting, that it would be appropriate to reconstitute the Maritime Regulatory Authority, and I say this because I think it is useful to regulate a crucial issue of competition in the field of shipping, particularly with the interconnection of small islands. I would remind you that following the abolition in 2004 of this principle, fourteen years later, the Competition Committee has never dealt with any matter relating to the shipping and the association of the islands, small or large, and there are such issues. The Ministry of Shipping is Ministry and Island Policy. Although the famous issue of VAT on the islands is a matter for the Ministry of Finance, I think there should be initiatives and pressures - and yours and with the agreement of all of us - on the need to extend a reduced VAT on the islands from the end of this year at least until next year. It is a reasonable request, particularly in the current circumstances that we are going through. Look at the situation in Lesvos and Chios. I think it is an issue on which you have the whole of the counterpopulation with you and I think that, with this enhanced voice, you could manage it in the discussions with the troika. As for equivalents that are required to be found, these can be reasonably found. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u180	Thank you very much Mr Dannelly and indeed in time. H Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Kammenos, speaking on behalf of the Independent Greeks for 15 minutes. With Mr Kammenos we are completing the cycle of the rapporteurs and the special speakers. Mr. Kammenos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u181	Thank you very much, Mr President. We have come to plenary today to discuss this extremely important bill for Greece. It is a bill of strategic importance for the Greek economy, which lies both in history and in shipping and in lesser instincts, such as gross national product, transactions, tourism, direct and indirect revenues that the Greek economy can have from Greek shipping, how much more is advertising that is a huge quality income for the country, which comes through Greek shipping, good quality of seafarers, good bills, good audits, good and well-functioning records and good audits and certifications for Greek shipping, which is a flag that will never be sent and hopefully, like all Greeks, we wish to keep up even higher, because it helps very much the whole of the Greek economy. We are reforming the whole institutional framework. The bill's late, but I think it's a full bill. We have heard very severe criticism, I think, within the framework of parliamentarianism - and rightly so - criticism and control are being exercised by both the institutions and by the world involved directly or indirectly with Greek shipping and by the parties of counter-population. I saw there have been several pages of legislative improvements. We are trying for the best, and I think that is also the purpose, because shipping is a national subject, it is not a party of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, of the New Democracy or of any other party or dear colleague. We have also told the committees - and today I have been able to read a little bit of the legislative amendments, which we support, and Mr Skourletis and Mrs Papanatsiou and the other amendment - that this bill creates enormous expectations. The expectations come from the professions involved in shipping directly, be they travel agents, whether they be employees, captains or who are directly involved, such as ship engineers, be they porters, be they the port funds, be they all the levels of construction and repair of ships, transport of goods, oil, oil, gas, are the marinas, all this management, management and tourism and the commercial product, it is training, the certification of education, the registers, it is the certification of registers, it is who controls, who is controlled, who is controlled. It is so wide in scope and so difficult the subject, and I have told Mr. Dritsa and Mr. Kurubli that I have admired the work, because they are diverse. Fortunately, there are worthy executives helping the ministers and all the ministers to carry out such a difficult task. Where to start judging this bill, when it catches the full range of a huge object, which, as I said, is also extremely important. We talked about operational strategic planning. We talked about staff issues, school import issues. I've read now about the wardens' schools. All this should have been years ago. They're getting the best way now. Probably yeah, we're all wondering and we'll see it in practice. We will also see the requirements of the market, the requirements of the Greek economy, the demand from maritime tourism, the demand from commercial shipping - in specialties I mean - so that we adapt the studies to teachers and whatever programme is to be done from now on, so that the certification of anyone who takes or enters the world's likes into schools dealing with shipping and the maritime object should be the best and should be the best in the world. Why hide it? Why should one go to London to study shipping or in Switzerland tourism when tourism is in Greece and shipping is in Greece. The shipping companies are in London. So the upgrading of staff, the upgrading of degrees, the upgrading of everyone's knowledge and skills and at all levels is extremely important, which no one disputes. The way in which this is to be achieved is something that we can discuss and accept a criticism and what we need to change. But we have to start. In other words, when we say 'no' to the bill, we say 'do nothing', so that we do nothing of what I and so many honourable Members have analysed before me. Even the critics of us have read a hundred articles in committee. Some of the articles, if not all, need to be voted on and started to be implemented. That is what we will do as a responsible Parliamentary Group of the Independent Greeks and as members of the coup d'état. Political personnel issues are resolved. As far as Article 106 is concerned, we have had several disagreements. We received letters from many stakeholders. Others had selfishness, others had no selfishness. Others have seen the issue objectively, functionally, how it should work so that there is no oligopoly and that there is a purity in the contractual relationship, that who gets a job, what it does, how it charges and how these costs are transferred to either the products, the employees or a final product. I think we can solve this the best. It will start its implementation and we have supported it. While we had concerns at first, I think that appropriate explanations were given by both institutions and everything else we discussed. The controls of merchant ships and tankers, fuel transport, extensions of certificates, all of which, unfortunately, had not been resolved - that is the truth - to the extent that they had to be resolved. The services were in charge. The tragic environmental accident - an accident for the ship and the oil leak - has brought to the surface some shortcomings which we have also built in the government. That is why we are denounced by many that we are criticising the government. But we must criticise the government among ourselves, because otherwise there is no sound democracy. Then, in the rupture, I said, "No, the Minister won't resign. It is crisis management’. No administrative lessons or real life, when you have a huge crisis, nowhere in the world is the leader leaving. It will control the leader and he will be politically controlled by the Prime Minister, by the person responsible, but he must not leave and he must resolve the problem, because he is the one who knows it and can immediately give the orders. We didn't have time to lose. I understand the criticism, but now is the moment of implementation. In the next few days after the draft law was passed, implementation and monitoring will be carried out. It is a good thing to vote on it, but we have to check it through an article. Checking for all these infinite issues that arise through this huge bill will have him in the Ministry. Here is a challenge for the Minister to find those groups and structures, which will monitor the implementation of an article - an article of the entire bill. As far as the supply systems are concerned, there was a need for codification and transparency. It was necessary to reduce the cost of supplies, to control them, to have a supplier register and to have an organisation. That's what's happening. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President hits a warning bell.]] The role of the Ministry - I must be brief, because I must also go to the Conference of Presidents - is very important. It is a ministry that is directly related to almost all the co-responsible ministries. There is no Ministry which has nothing to do with the Ministry of Shipping, either indirectly or directly. So his role is very important and it is very important that this bill should be implemented in the best possible way. At the moment, here, as I said in committee, there is a job. From some of my meetings I have diagnosed some irregularities that have taken place in connection with the use of certain vessels that have been financed and subsidised by the Greek State, by the Greek taxpayer, their use is awkward and there is no proper control for years now. I work very closely and inform the Minister. Today we were with Mr. Red in the Group of the European People's Party. Within the next week we will have full control of all the subsidised companies - we are talking about about a hundred LNGs that got grants and ships - and we will start to check. I also spoke to the Secretary General of the Ministry. So in the next week, we'll have a full check. This is where I want to be strict. If someone is caught or caught receiving a grant, has done overpriced or received a grant to increase the tourist product in the Corinthian and he is in Santorini without any permission and with the Greek people's money, then we will have to seize the ship and have a heavy penal clause, up to the return of the entire subsidy. I am strict and we must be strict because, if you are not strict, there is nothing going on in any country and we have seen this. I close by saying that there are people, especially in Piraeus, where we are MPs, who are anxious to implement it. I've said it twice, and I say it one last. It is very important to build structures that will monitor the implementation of this bill within the Ministry and the co-responsible bodies and the supervised bodies. Will you do it? A great deal of good has been passed so far. It is, I think, up to us, and it is up to the ministry and the entire government to do well, to implement these very important articles, where necessary to correct them, by using and not cancelling - because they do not like someone - they will be tested. And from there on, we will give a good and good product to commercial shipping, to tourist shipping, so that it will continue to be high and bring the revenue we want to tourism and to commercial vessels and to save ourselves from accidents, as we had the unfortunate thing about "AHIA ZONI 2". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, Mr. Kammenos, and the economy in time. Minister, an amendment of a hundred thirteen pages has just arrived. As you can see, it has raised the interest of all the wings and they want to be placed on the stage.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u183	We'll interrupt and call the agencies.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u184	Now we can't interrupt and call the agencies. What you're saying, Mr. Metarakis, can't be done. I will give the floor for one minute to the rapporteurs to put themselves on a point of order. Please be brief. Mr. Plakyotakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u185	I would like to make a proposal on a point of order. As you can see, it is practically impossible and to talk about the articles and to talk about the amendment. This amendment could obviously be a separate bill for the establishment of KESENs in Machinery and for the establishment of life or fire-fighting instruments based on the Onouses. You understand that we need time to place ourselves. So both on the articles and on the amendments it is practically impossible to complete the procedure today. That is why I propose another meeting so that we can put it accurately in all the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u186	We'll talk about it. The initial thought is that at 20.00 hours we should have completed, because, on the basis of the speakers, the procedure is being completed. We will inform you during the sitting, after speaking with the Bureau. Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u187	For the one hundred and thirteen pages amendment, we are asking for it to be withdrawn and come as a bill and normally put into the process. It is not possible now, a few hours before the vote on the bill, to discuss such things. It's impossible to read it. It's impossible to work with more experts. It can't go like that. It's also a downgrading of the whole situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. Come on, Mr. Kouzele.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u189	Thank you very much, Mr President. This is the amendment. It's impossible. I do not think that it expresses respect for the government. Is this a respect for Parliament for the Members? Amendment with a hundred thirteen pages? Who is able to study it as well as to know the subject of shipping? He's got a lot of specialized issues. Each article is special, it's a bill. This is not an amendment here, it's a bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u190	Thank you. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u191	Mr President, with this amendment of the hundreds of thirteen pages, but also the essential issues it deals with, the Government, in particular the Ministry of Trade Shipping, proves that it does not want dialogue, debate in Parliament, proposals, counter-proposals and everything that can compose proper legislative work. We're calling to withdraw it. To come as a bill, or whatever he thinks, in time now. This procedure is completely unconstitutional. It's not on the edge. In any case, this cannot be done today, even if the Minister insists that this amendment be discussed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u192	Mr. Dritsa, you have the floor. Immediately afterwards, Mr. Saridis will take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u193	Mr President, I have taken a brief look at the many pages of this amendment. It is, of course, the explanatory statement. It is the text of the amendment. It's the repealed articles. It's the General Accounting Report. It is not all the hundreds of thirteen pages of amendment. In any case, in order not to say most, many of the issues contained in this amendment are not new. The founding of the KESEN Macedonia is not. The yield of the land, after the concession agreement of the Port of Piraeus to the Municipality of Piraeus, Perama, Keratini, Drapetsonas, is not a new issue, as is several others. I understand, however, that proper legislative function requires a year in all the parties to study, see whether there are any conflicts, etc. From this point of view, I too believe that what the Conference of Presidents has decided, namely that this bill will be discussed in one or two meetings, may give us a way out. Let us continue the debate and then assess whether we can have a second meeting tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Mr. Dritsa. Mr. Saridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u195	Mr President, once again the government shows that it does not respect Parliament at all. This is not the right way to legislate. We've spoken in the past. He had forgotten this way of legislating for the past two months. We, too, believed that something is going to change, but suddenly we have an amendment with a hundred thirteen pages, as other Members have said, from other points of view, which we are unable to read, understand and evaluate in the time available to us, at least with the possibility of one meeting. I have just come from the Conference of Presidents and it may be a reality, that is to say in plenary today the vote on the bill. Therefore, as a Centro Association, we call on the Government to withdraw the amendment, to bring it as a bill, to discuss it, to come the relevant bodies involved in this amendment and to place us at another sitting in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u196	Because at the moment I have no idea whether the Conference of Presidents has been completed, they are likely to discuss this matter as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u197	The Conference is over, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u198	There will be information on this. All your locations shall be taken into account. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and the way in which this House is organized and toured in the exhibition of the "ELEIGERIOS VENIZELOS", 50 students and students and five teachers from the 4th General School of Agrinio. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Minister, you have the floor to put yourself on the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u199	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely want to apologize for the delay. There have been objective reasons. I would ask all Members very much to understand. But, ladies and gentlemen, the amendments we have tabled have nothing to do with economic matters, to say that they want a study. They regulate matters for which I am sure you may disagree with the whole bill, but with the content of these amendments, I doubt it will find a colleague in the Chamber to disagree. Is he going to disagree with the concession to the municipalities in land areas that are not used and do not need ports? Will anyone agree that we are extending the punishment that undeclared work on shipping must have and that we are actually extending the provisions on land and sea, which no one dared to do and which we are so philosophers, Mr Manolakou?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u200	Our remarks have taken place.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u201	Don't open a dialogue, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u202	Will anyone disagree with what's going on at the KESEN, Mr. Plakatakis, and you think we'll get it back? I'll beg you very much. I understand the objections. I really understand them. But show some understanding because they are matters that need to be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u204	Mr President, I would like the floor for the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u205	You're welcome, Minister. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u206	I would like to refer to two specific amendments concerning the Ottawas. You've been shared. The first is with a general number of 1353 and a special number 22. It concerns an arrangement in Law 4483/2017, and in particular in Article 81, which promoted the lifting of the obligation to implement the replacement procedures for grade I TAIs based on the 2009 SAAP competition. What had led us to that arrangement? Just because the results of the competition were announced in 2009 and the filling in in 2017 had changed a lot of things to the real needs of the municipalities. So they don't need any of these specialties. I'm thinking of something that he mentioned to me by a particular mayor. He told me that forty-five porcelain blocks had then been applied for, which "I am forced" said the mayor "to take them in 2017". That is why we said that these positions should not be filled after so many years, so that we do not spend these positions, because there are restrictions as you know in the rule of withdrawals and recruitments and in the municipalities and in another way. With the regulation we now have come to fill out this possibility by saying from those municipalities that had finally claimed and had wanted certain positions to be met, but they did not respond to the people concerned, to have the opportunity now with a decision of the municipal council to promote the request to fill posts from those ADP tables. This is a purely procedural proposal. The second amendment, number 1356 and number 25, gives the possibility of being part of the rules laid down in Article 39 of Law No4325/2015, the relevant case of employment of workers in VDUs and legal persons on the basis of interim measures ordering the employment of applicants until the adoption of a final and final decision on the regular action. So, on the basis of this arrangement, you realise that it is self-evident to have no criminal or disciplinary liability on the part of members of local government or of other officials for the payment of this staff, and that every procedure for charging the sums paid for real employment must be stopped. We are talking about workers who have been employed for some time until their decision has been finalised on the basis of interim decisions, interim judicial measures. You can understand that there must be no charge for those present for work that had already been provided. It is clarified that the proposed arrangement also covers the total duration of the actual employment of the staff concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u208	You will allow me, with the debate that the Minister is opening for the amendment to say that we, too, four Members, have tabled an amendment with a general number of 1355 and a specialist of 24. I would like to explain it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u209	For a minute, all my colleagues are waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u210	He's registered to the speakers, though. It can't be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u211	In turn, Mr President, please. There is no such procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u212	Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the case, but everyone is intervening. And to you, Mr Kegeroglu, I gave the floor when your parliamentary representative or the rapporteur should normally speak on a point of order. However, to place you, I gave you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u213	I was the only one here for that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u214	You have a minute, Mr. Consola, or I'll interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u216	I will, however, delete you from the speakers you have written.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u217	Don't do that. You'll be sorry. Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u218	No, no. You have registered as a speaker. You will not be placed now and then as a speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u219	Mr President, we have tabled an amendment on this point.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u220	You're changing the line of speakers?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u221	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u222	What right do you change the order of speakers?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u223	We're not changing the line of speakers. It would have been over now. It wants to be put for a minute, to explain something to my colleague. He won't speak as a speaker after.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u224	He'll talk about the substance. It's not a process, I'm sorry. It will be on the substance of its position. That is not the case under any Rule of the Rules of Procedure. Ask it, and if provided, I will resign.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u225	Mr Consola, because I do not want to raise matters in Parliament, please wait very long when your turn comes to speak. Come on, Mr. Karayannides, since you're impatient, sit down for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u226	Thank you, Mr President. There was a consultation with Mr. Athanasios before and a deal. When a Member rises suddenly and says 'I have an amendment, I can explain it' if fifteen amendments are tabled, the order will be broken. You can't do that. We can do this in consultation. If you would come and see that we can get together all the parties, it would happen. Because of a limited period of time, I cannot go into many issues anyway. I will focus on three, four issues that have also raised the greatest confrontation or debate. I'm starting with the inspectors. We believe that there is an upgrade of the inspectors and auditors of the Ministry of Shipping. Not only is the industry of inspectors and auditors deceived, as we are accused of, but we upgrade it by setting for the first time criteria and qualifications that inspectors should have. Our aim is for the inspectors' sector to have the role it should have, to have a proper and operational structure and to become an audit mechanism for classification societies. It shall not be possible for an auditor to be himself. For the first time, too, a School of Auditors is being set up at the Ministry and the first time checks will be carried out on ships to be checked by classification societies who have not so far been checked. The transformation of the ship control industry into an effective and effectively effective and supervisory body of classification societies which, from 30-9-2018, will issue the anticipated certificates of Greek ships, with the exception of specific exceptions, which, although they have already provided institutional support since 1973, has not been applicable until now. This allows the best use of the ship control and human resources, as opposed to existing sub-selling. Artisticly, it is presented by the Qualified Opposition that we are going to close down the industry. There's no chance of that happening. It's just the opposite. The need to relocate the ship control branch to a supervisory body of the classification societies has been recognised since 2003 when George Anomeritis, with a ministerial decision which has prompted the immediate dismissal of the rapporteur for the Democratic Incorporation, has removed from the industry the competence to issue certificates of airworthiness issued by recognised organisations, with the clear justification for upgrading the role of the JEP. In these years when this was not done, this sector was deprived of decent buildings and logistical infrastructure, was not certified under the 2009 Regulation, but issued the same certificates issued by the classification societies recognised by EMSA. Before I go to work and because the transparency of the bill was raised by the Qualifications, I will read to you some of the regulations that you made in 2014 and concern the transparency that you are cutting. In Article 33(3)(c) 2014, it is Law 4256- officers who did not complete their promotional qualifications without their own fault that could not be promoted, even if they had reached the maximum degree of residence. Second case: Article 56 of Law4310/2014, published on 8-12/2014 a few days before the elections. With this, specific representatives of the Port Corps have remained active for two more years, while hundreds of their colleagues have been deported as a result of the completion of thirty-five years. With the second paragraph of this article you voted and passed, the right of officials serving in the sixth, eighth and ninth regional administration to return was institutionalised. That's all. Photographics. To talk about transparency. So we're going to work: there's an extension from four years to five for the eight-month service on the ships that a seafarer needs to have to stay in the Maritime Register. I imagine this extension serves unemployed seafarers and will therefore be voted on. Obligation on shipowners to have paid the basic salaries of at least the ship's crew and the corresponding contributions to the relevant insurers before the start of the service. Otherwise, it can even be banned. That is why a lot of things have been heard. The New Democracy has accused us of creating a problem for shipowners, the JRC, that we are operating in antique mode. Or one or the other. We say neither. It is obvious that we are trying to defend the interests of workers against employers' immunity to establish a framework in which seafarers will work and be paid. It may be annoyed that the Qualified Opposition, but when NEL's seamen have been unpaid for three years, the New Democracy Government and PASOK have done absolutely nothing. Mr. Athanasios told the committee that this thing is outrageous and that the liquidity of each company cannot be linked to the coastline. In other words, for the workers to be paid, we should first ask whether the company is liquid and so they will be paid. Let's go to the revenues now. This is also an article in which there was a great deal of talk and I think there was not much reason to do that. A paradoxical payment in favour of the public is introduced for the granting of authorisation to tranship consignments of crude oil and its derivatives between tankers in the territorial sea. A fine is hereby established for the purpose of illegal interference with the Aegean Sea, the beach, the sea, the seabed and the port zone. There are very strict fines for infringements of environmental protection legislation. The institutional framework for the process of boarding and action of armed private guards on Greek flags of commercial ships is amended, with fees being charged for amendments, renewals and issuing of reported authorisations. The institutional framework is being reformed in terms of the residence fee for boats and small boats, so that the public fee in favour of the public fee is more rational. Let me remind you here, because there was a request for an article not to come to an end: I will read you a statement - his speech from the minutes of the House - Mr Varvitsiotis when he was Minister of Maritime Affairs and what he said about the end that you are asking for it not to come into force. 'First of all, of course, it is to stimulate revenue. The second reason is to restore social justice because there must be an end to the sea according to the end of traffic on land." That's what you said in 2014. Because it changed this today, there's no reasonable explanation. To spend the last time in navigating, which is to strengthen the Pilot Agency with the creation of new organic jobs of all the sectors planned for maritime personnel.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u227	Mr. Karayannides, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u228	I'll be done in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u229	You had no tolerance for half a minute ago. Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u230	Mr President, I think you can handle the conversation better. You shouldn't have told me now that I had no tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u231	I'll tell Mr. Metarakis later. Here, Mr. Mitarakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u232	Stop in seven minutes and Mr. Metarakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u233	If you want us to observe the Rules of Procedure and we all go in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we all respect it. Mr. Metarakis, the same applies to you. Do not think we will have tolerance in your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u234	Of course, Mr President. I always keep track of time, as you know. You are doing very well and you are insisting on respecting the Rules of Procedure. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled an amendment today with a general number of 1355 and a special 24, the Members of the New Democracy of Lesvos, Chios, Evros and Dodecanese for another year, until 31 December 2018. These days the citizens, the institutions, the professionals of our islands came to the street. They complain that in one month their cost of life will become unbearable, production costs will become unbearable. Can the government hear that? I'm afraid he doesn't, and he doesn't do anything about it. The Deputy Minister of Finance yesterday claimed in statements that the government expects the institutions to approve an extension. However, in a letter sent to Greece on 20 November, the European Commission disagrees that such a request has been made and states to the State Secretary. The government's telling outright lies. But it says in there and other things it says out. No request has been made to the Commission for VAT on islands, with no one negotiating. I am also making the statements made by Mrs Papanatsiou and the letter from the European Commission to you. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Notis Metarakis, presents for the minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As you know, tax policy belongs to the policies of the Member States. The design and final decisions belong to the Tsipra - Kammenos coexistence. The islanders must know that from the first months of governance SYRIZA - ANEL, when we supposedly resisted the institutions, Mr Tsipras and Mr Varoufakis claimed that they would only accept minimum measures to close the evaluation. Within these minimums in May 2015, Mr. Tsipras included the insular VAT. That is how he believes and supports the islands. With this proposal put forward by Mr Tsipras, in May 2015 he gave the institutions the abolition of insular VAT. I'm filing it. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Notis Metarakis, presents for the minutes the above proposal, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And it is the SYRIZA - ANEL Government that negotiated the third memorandum and brought it to Parliament for vote. Without a second thought, it has unblocked a measure that has in practice supported our islands and has been in place for decades. Now with Law 4446 that you voted in 2016 you proceed to its final implementation. We must not listen today to crocodile tears, because as proof of your indifference to islanders Mr. Tsipras did not include the insular VAT, the alleged countermeasures or the social dividend that you voted on the day before yesterday. Ladies and gentlemen, our remote islands are characterised by particularities. It's far from downtown. There is competition from neighbouring countries, mainly from Turkey. They face increased transport costs. At the same time, it must be our fundamental national objective not only to maintain the population on these islands, but to increase it, as we need to increase economic activity. How will you do that, ladies and gentlemen of the government? What is your specific design? With the definitive abolition of the reduced VAT in a month from now on, people will suddenly see all kinds of first need to be much more expensive than mainland Greece and much more expensive than neighbor. It is a strong blow to the purchasing power of the inhabitants in the winter, where on the islands where there is tourism, incomes are reduced, as we are out of tourist season. Some consumers will turn towards neighbouring countries, as is already the case in northern Greece. And this in the small closed communities of the islands will have chain reactions throughout the range of economic activity. The cost of production and raw materials will increase, affecting the production and export activities of our islands with a direct negative impact on the competitiveness of our products. The government - and this is the reality, ladies and gentlemen - closes eyes in front of these consequences. We have not heard in practice of measures to compensate for the negative effects and costs. The investment law, as known, remains a ‘licensed shirt’. Infrastructural in the islands is ponding. Mostly this year and over the last two years, immigration has affected our islands. We have therefore tabled this amendment by proving that the New Democracy is practically supporting the remote islands. We call on the government, at least now, at the last minute, to accept this extension. Here is the opportunity to enter a serious dialogue with the actors and residents on how to support the acronym Greece, the gates of our country. That is what all the island operators are asking for. I would like to present to you, ladies and gentlemen, the resolution by the Chios authorities yesterday, at the large protest gathering that took place. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Notis Metarakis, presents for the minutes this resolution, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let me say two topics on today's bill. Firstly, I would remind you, Minister, that in your recent visit to the Onousses you accepted the request by local bodies for the establishment of a public lifestyle school. And it is wrong for you to accept that you are bringing this into the wrong place by an amendment of a hundred and fourteen pages, since the bill has already been discussed in the committee responsible. We are, of course, waiting for these announcements to be implemented and operated by this school in Oinousses in practice. In conclusion, I should like to draw your attention to the subject of the transfer of new entrant students to AEN. These are long delayed, and the students swear over the next few days. This also costs both students and their families, who will not be able to attend the workshops at the schools, which they will eventually be able to attend. They risk not being able to meet the requirements of the first semester, given that the curriculum is not the same in all schools. Please, Minister, take care to complete the transfer to AEN. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u235	Thank you, Mr. Metarakis. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor from the Democratic Alliance. Mr Panayotaros will then be placed as Parliamentary Representative. I propose that the procedure should go two-three speakers, one parliamentarian, and we await the official position of the Bureau, Mr Kaloger. We have asked whether we will proceed to a second meeting. We'll let you know during the speakers. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u236	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Let me refer to an issue which concerns many Greeks travelling to Germany or via Germany and which communicates with us about the enormous suffering they are experiencing, since the country has practically come out of the Schengen Agreement. It should be recalled that this was, of course, a position of the Prime Minister, who, in question about the impact of the management of the immigration issue on the risk of getting out of Schengen, said the immoral one: 'We are threatened to get us out of the Schengen Agreement. Let us go, little evil." It is perhaps one of the few that this government has achieved, which will now panicky send out - it says - four police officers, two at each airport, to help the Germans carry out checks. Whose humiliation! The government accepts this indirectly that Greece is outside Schengen. It's unacceptable. And, today, the Minister admitted that the late amendment of the hundreds of fourteen pages a few hours before the end of the sitting is not normal, it is unacceptable. However, it has not established what is the urgency for which the amendment is coming. And if it is a specific provision from the amendment, let it be cut off, tell us what it is and put it in and accept it. In any case, the other amendments tabled by the government are too late. It is now the law outside the normal procedure. Of course, it is the Ministry of Shipping which has not brought a single piece of legislation for three years. For three years it has not brought a piece of legislation, and now it has brought a bill with an amendment of a hundred and fourteen pages lately. That's his work. Three years he did nothing about the unemployment of people, of seafarers, only 'COSCO'. We saw the chords supported in the first half of the year by Mr Dritsa, who took part in the demonstrations against 'COSCO' and then signed normally, not only the government itself, as a whole, Mr Tsipras. Now power is sweet, of course. I had no requirement from Mr. Dritsa, since he was found at the ministerial court then to take the stand he had before. I have no such requirement. He has done nothing three years now for the big problem created by the students of the master and engineer schools, who have been implicated in recent years by shipping companies, cannot do the practical exercise, cannot complete their training. And it comes and brings in a bill with arrangements for port transfers, with a complete deterioration of the Transition Council and a more direct involvement of the Minister in them. This, of course, is also an installation by the Minister of a pale system of old-fashioned labour, in which he himself has experience, since he has been Secretary of State for Welfare and the grant of benefits. He's giving gifts to shipowners and even to the seaships. And I don't know where this deal was closed. In the days that were the oil spill, which was in London, it seems to be closed, where it says that if international regulations are weaker, less strict than the Greeks, the Greeks will not apply, the international ones will apply. This is the seriousness of this government. [[The President-in-Office o' Vice-President of Parliament]] Liability-free arrangements for the oil spill. It's supposed to bring in a new system. He says they're unable to control ships from the Ministry. He may imply being corrupted. However, they can control private companies, which are exclusively responsible for the control of ships, private companies that are certified, have the right today to do so. However, the possibility for small boats on the islands and in particular small islands to be certified by the Ministry's services is now no longer in force. It abolishes the local test staircases. This is another gift to them, of course the increase in costs for small ships. Is it just foot settings or are they agreed settings with some? In particular, I would like to stress that this high cost which is actually called upon to pay small ships and especially on the islands is another violation of Article 101 of the Constitution, since not only is it not taken special care to facilitate and support the islands, due to the permanent disadvantage of cut-off from the mainland, but on the contrary it is more burdened. But this is not the first time since you abolished the financial equivalent of the reduced VAT, which was perhaps the only policy that gave flesh and bone to the welfare of Article 101 of the Constitution. The abolition of the extension of the islands from Samothraki and Lesvos to Kos concludes with the 31-12-2017 end of the extension. It is unacceptable because it says about Kastelorizo and all the Dodecanese, except Rhodes and Karpathos. You know, Carpathus is something else. This special scheme is not a special privilege, as some people want to present and promote this measure of support for the islands. On the other hand, it is a counterbalance for the specificities and problems arising from islands, as provided for by the Constitution, and of course it is a policy of major national importance, a factor of national sovereignty, because it is a crucial tool, both for the economic development of the islands and for the residence of inhabitants on the islands. Those who have the image of summer in their minds, for all the islands and for all the year round, not only are they wrong, but they are far from reality. In this sense, I would like to stress our position that the equivalent of reduced VAT for all the islands should be restored. It is not only a question of the burden that the islands have now borne and which is too great because of the poor management of immigration. It's not just that the country is on a schedule. It is not just that there is a European Parliament resolution stressing it. It is not only that there is the study by the Lesvos Chamber of Deputies, which shows the negative effects that exist and the reduction of the revenues from VAT reduction. It is the order of the constitution, which you are walking on. You write it in the oldest of your shoes, and that's what you do with other things. You will be judged by the people. And you know that his judgment will be fatal to you. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u237	Mr President, please speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u238	Here you go, Mr. Dritsa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u239	Very quickly, Mr President. I have no right to leave the irresponsible attack on me by Mr Kegeroglu, even though it is clear that all the issues he has spoken about in relation to the bill have proved to be the complete ignorance he has, both on the maritime issues and on the issues of the port and ports and everything. What I would like to say, Mr President, is that it is indeed well known in Piraeus and Greece as a whole, the programming direction for which SYRIZA has, with great effort, dealt with the best possible way of developing the port industry. Indeed, it was not our choice to privatize. It was the 2015 compromise that most of Parliament's parties voted for, including Mr Kegeroglu's, for the en routed privatizations at that time. Since then, however, the Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras, the entire government and my humility have dealt with how this agreement will be made with the best possible conditions for the public interest, for the rights of workers, for the proper functioning of the port, for the environment. That is also what everyone knows, both in the port and in Greece and everywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u240	Thank you very much, Minister, for clarifying. The Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Panayotaros, has the floor for twelve minutes. I will ask Mr Gregos for his pardon, because he is the next speaker, for another speaker to be inserted and for him to be second, so that you are not two of the same party. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u241	I agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u242	Thank you very much. Mr. Carras will speak after Mr. Panayotaroo, then Mr. Gregos and Mr. Armalene.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u243	I was replaced by Mr. Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u244	Okay. Mr. Panayotus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u245	Thank you, Mr President. After the award by Mr. Tsipras of the "Politique International", we all have to feel more relieved than his political courage, which keeps us chained to the appetites of our lenders. With regard to this award, just from a magazine - here in Greece, it has become a first issue - let us listen to the owner of the magazine what exactly he says. He says the Director-General and founder of the magazine: "Tsipras had the courage to make decisions for the benefit of Greece and Europe. He's a man of conviction and courage. Despite the different direction originally taken by Alexis Tsipras' political family, he found the courage to keep Greece in the euro and Europe, avoiding disastrous consequences for everyone." Here we see two things from the one who awarded the honourable Prime Minister. Firstly, he won him for his "columb" and, secondly, that if the government did not change the design and did not act on the appetites of the lenders, the whole of Europe would have a problem, not only Greece. Unfortunately, at the moment, with your cubes, the ones who have the huge problem are Greek citizens and not, of course, our lenders and others, whom you have guaranteed by having mortgaged our country for ninety-nine years, by selling out the "fillets" and the public property against a lentine billboard, to do what the lenders want. Remember that. When you "principle" when you give the last "chilet" to those who applaud them, they will leave us in our luck. So you know what's going on. Of course, another prize could be given to the Prime Minister, a prize for his consistency. Let's remember what he said, when he was in the opposition, about the social dividend, as the others baptized it, as they gave it, for what they were giving: 'Flying the surplus' at the time, while now he blames the fact that some say the surplus. Civilization in all its majesty! Of course, a prize could also be given to the Prime Minister for various actions that we have experienced in the last one and a half years: on how he treats Greeks and how he treats illegal immigrants, on how he went, using the Prime Minister's aircraft, to Cuba at the funeral of Castro, on how he went to Maduro to stand up for him. He went to all the lengths and backs of the earth. He went four times to Mytilini to see the illegal immigrants, not to mention any problems. But it did not go here next to the Saronic, when about two months ago there was a huge ecological disaster, for which no one is entirely faulted, or rather, as one SYRIZA MEP said, it was because of the illiterate capital and the shipowners and I don't know who else. He was hiding and didn't go to Attica's burnt-out to see the lack of the state mechanism in both the before and during and after. He didn't even go to the earthquake people in Lesvos. This is why the next speaker, Mr Gregos, will be reporting on everything that is happening now. The culmination is that no one went to Mandra, with the twenty-one dead and the missing, because it's not just one and you understand what we want to say. Everybody hid behind each other and all the government, whether you're in Central Command or in the Region, throw the ball at each other. He agreed to the Prime Ministerial Palace of Afghanistan, which did not parade because there were various issues and which should not be a signifier as a student of the First Elementary. That's another matter. When they can't write the letter alpha, what's it like in the first grade? In fact, the flag they gave him - we saw it, I imagine, most of them went out to "DIAGY" - charged it to pay for it for the Greek people. But the Prime Minister himself did not ask for a minister or the State Secretary for National Defence to see, when the three hopeful ones were lynched, and the same has not been done with the families of the victims in Mandra, as with the earthquakes of Lesvos, as, unfortunately, the Prime Minister does not always do. He could also be given a prize for lack of political emotiveness. Because for all these events that have occurred in our homeland, famines, earthquakes and oppressions, not one and the fault of the last disaster has been brought to bear on the master and climate change. Mr. Ministers of the Ministry responsible, and you seas have done it. With "Athens ZONI 2" you were unrealisticly exposed to what you said. When the incident happened, you didn't say anything. Then, late, you moved and one of your statements disproved the other and exposed you even more. You've screwed up. From "AYIA ZONI 2" to Mandra, from there to Lesvos and from there to Saudi Arabia. We hear things and on Monday the truth will see the light of publicity. We have a question. Demonstrations that end in a short time and want a country like Saudi Arabia, what does it want to do with them, make them a bell or use them? And since Saudi Arabia is currently at war with Yemen and elsewhere, do we know and where they would go? Because, for those who do not know, there is now a huge humanitarian crisis in Yemen, due solely to Saudi Arabia. But that's where you get too far. You see, there's no NGO involvement and money to go and work. And we also have what has been playing for the last two days on the degrading checks of Greek citizens going to Germany, where the Schengen Treaty has been abolished exclusively for those who come from Greece. The position of the Golden Dawn is that there should be no Schengen Convention in Europe for anyone. Because if we take pencil and paper and look at positive and negative, for our country is much more positive than the non-existence of the Schengen Treaty. We could control our borders and not enter millions of illegal immigrants or hundreds of thousands of Roma from Bulgaria, Romania and elsewhere, who have fallen like locusts and dismantle everything in our homeland and many others who go in and use Greece or other countries as a gateway. No check anywhere. But now we are going to the point that Germany has arrived, not only to control Greeks at the German airports, but it is revealed that, in your knowledge, there are German policemen here who control the Greeks and here before they leave. That is to say, you are in full boarding at all levels, at all levels, at economic level, in matters of security, national issues, everywhere, everywhere! And that of course didn't start now, it's an old story from 2007, in 2008, in 2009, where in the neighborhoods of Athens there were spirals from foreigners, who made and continue to make fake papers. And when Golden Dawn raised these since 2010, when the Chief of Golden Dawn entered the Athens City Council and had raised these issues with names and addresses, no one did anything. Because we mustn't hurt foreigners, because they're gonna call us racists. Take care of them now, ladies and gentlemen, for supporting these policies. And we end up with a very serious issue relating to this bill, but also more generally it should be something that should be very high on the agenda of all governments, insularity. It is a special feature of Greece with thousands of small and large islands. The policies of the memorandum you have all voted on, Mr Mitarakis, and you, with the memoranda and the measures and even the abolition of the reduced VAT, which was on the prerequisites, and if you did not fall, would have voted for it anyway, because the equivalents are over. You say one equivalent, the other equivalent, but there are no longer equivalents to anything at all. And now from 1-1-2018 they're ending lies for everyone and everything. Insularity should be looked after as an eyewitness because it is about the issues of residents living there permanently, not only in the summer, but three hundred and sixty-five days a year and not only in large islands, but also in smaller islands, it has to do with our national sovereignty, it has to do with the AEZ, it has to do with far too many things. And the state, the central administration, should move in this direction, in particular, to promote Greek citizens in any positive way for them at the border and on our islands. Not to close public services at once and to force citizens to take boats, planes to go to other islands or even to go to Athens or Piraeus, to Thessaloniki to deal with various cases. There should be, not only there, throughout Greece, but in particular there, an attempt at a demographic explosion. We should not discuss whether to abolish the reduced VAT on the Aegean islands in which it existed, but to discuss reducing VAT across Greece, in order to be competitive and not to leave either our islanders and go to work next to Turkey or the north-east of Romania, Bulgaria, Skopje, Albania and elsewhere. Finally, the amendment you brought, and it came to 12.47 ́, also has some positive elements. Why have you not brought it to the debate or to the committees to get it all right? How do you now require a hundred thirteen pages to be checked not to do anything and there is something that is epilepsy? There's some very positive stuff in it - we've seen it - articles. You should see this until the end of the meeting. Find a formula so that these positive articles in the amendment do not get the ball because you have brought them in late and there is no possibility for many to study them. Finally, I would like to say that as Golden Dawn, we consider shipping to be one of the most powerful weapons of our country and of the economy. With good and remedial moves it could be one of the four, heavy - heavy five, sectors of our country's economy, which would be the forerunner for relaunching. But all this to become needs a national government, which is thinking above all about Greeks and not about lenders, not foreigners, not about anyone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u246	Thank you very much Mr. Panayotar. Mr Athanasios, speaking from New Democracy, has the floor for seven minutes. Mr. Gregos and Mr. Karras will be followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u247	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall refer first to the two amendments which are of interest and first - firstly, to the amendment we tabled today with the other Members from the island regions, the amendment with a general number of 1355 and a special number of 24. Minister, the reduced VAT on the islands is not a state concession. It is simply a constitutional check, which should be kept. And it is a check which is respected in many European Union countries that have islands. I know very well - and we are all aware - that, in fact, our creditors, when we were in the government, were insisting that these reduced rates be abolished and our government at that time - the Samara Government - was strongly refused and never abolished. Unfortunately, it is your government which has abolished this 'awareness' - I say it in introductory terms - of the obligation on our islands. In 2017, with the consent of all parties, there was a suspension of the abolition of the reduced VAT and therefore a relief for the islands. We are well aware that at the moment - to be realistic - there cannot be a definitive abolition, but only one suspension. So, with this amendment, we are asking for the suspension and I would ask the Minister to accept it, so that this issue, which concerns the islands, can be resolved and that the business world, too, should be relaxed. The second amendment relates in particular to wage claims - compensation for workers in the solids of shipping companies. I particularly refer to these workers who have been most affected by all at the Lesbos Shipping Company. You brought the amendment, which is correct and there is no objection, but you brought it into a whole bill, Minister. First of all, you must know - and other Members have said so - that under Rule 101 of the Rules of Procedure, the amendments come to articles, which have been adopted and are to be voted on in the main draft legislation. You cannot bring in a separate article - amendments to a text that has too many articles. The amendments may be more, but each amendment relates to an article. It's forbidden by the Rules of Procedure. It can't be done. The question, therefore, is that your entire amendment should be withdrawn - and I am referring to 1358. It is incomprehensible to bring an amendment and have seven whole articles and even the first article can be divided into four more articles than I have seen. It cannot, therefore, come in this way, because the legislative body and legislative initiatives are being circumvented. That is why we would ask that the amendment be withdrawn as it stands, because it requires a study, but as regards Article 3, on the compensation of workers in shipping companies and especially in the Lesbos shipping company, you can take it out at this time and come alone as an amendment. That is to say remove it as Article 3, to remove it and bring it, if that intention exists. I have to say there's such an intention from the Ministry. That is why it has been formulated, and indeed fully formulated, and there is therefore no problem. So, Minister, since there is this mood, please withdraw Amendment No 1358 and bring Article 3 alone, so that we do not have any further problems. Now, I will not go into all the articles, the matter has been exhausted by the rapporteurs and the position of our rapporteur, Mr Plakkatakis, has been thoroughly taken up. I shall only mention, because time is not enough, in three or four provisions. I shall refer to Rule 76. They are provisions which have a legal significance. Article 76 concerns programme contracts for the award of public service contracts. This is the case, in other words, that the Minister is actually making direct awards, with programme contracts with the local authorities for the transport of islands, with a population of less than five thousand, with control by the Court of Auditors. However, I find the following two points in the order: the first is that, contrary to what is stated in the explanatory statement, Minister, it does not appear from the provision that this solution will be chosen only if not all other possibilities of awarding the transport operation are met. Secondly, I am not at all sure that such conventions - particularly since they may be development companies of the local authorities - are not contrary to Union competition law and State aid law. Because it was said by the Secretary-General, Mr Santorini, - I am reading just from the Minutes - that 'it will be resolved in this way in such a way in order to avoid any reservations which might arise, Mr Santorini, in order to avoid this risk from being consulted by the Legal Council of State or even to put a preliminary question to the Court of Auditors, to tell us how this problem might not exist. Clearly, the provision of Article 78 is also unconstitutional, according to which if, before the start of a road period, ships have not been repaid - it says the provision - the basic wages and allowances of workers, etc. So we're going to make the company's liquidity dependent on its airworthiness? I don't understand that. It's mostly unconstitutional. I felt in committee, when I put it, that this provision would be withdrawn or recast. I am not going to talk about Article 106. Of all the wings an analysis was made. Mr. Placiotakis was very detailed in Article 106. I would just like to stress that the provision as it stands against European and international legislation and can form the basis of infringements in our country with what this entails with a number of fines. Another issue - and I conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your half-minute tolerance - is in Article 109, which I think the Minister should pay particular attention. I do not think there is a similar ban in the world regarding the age limit for ships. At least I do not know and I would ask that I be disproved and corrected if there is the opposite. This applies only to our country and, as it seems, not only to Greek ships, but also to ships with a foreign flag. This will risk leaving too many Greek flag ships. After all, Mr. Dritsas quite rightly thought in 2016 he abolished the age limit for passenger ships. I cannot understand why this regulation cannot be applied now. Now, with both Articles 110 and 114, it is forbidden to recruit military personnel or politicians if they do not have three years since their retirement, even if they have resigned. The intake is prohibited. These are entirely unconstitutional provisions, because they restrict not only the freedom of work but also equality between other workers. Finally, take note of this provision, Mr Minister, of Article 129. I told you very much in detail, and I say it now. When the provisions of national law are designed to be stricter than international security, and they cannot be implemented, then the Minister for Commercial Shipping is given the opportunity - listen! - order that they be not implemented, after a reasoned recommendation by a classification committee. Instead, Minister, look at the legislative framework and abolish whatever provisions no longer apply because of technological progress, you are making the respective Minister for Regulators and legislator, which, as I have said in committee, specializes only in countries where they govern, for example, either Mr Erdogan or Mr Putin. It is only there that these provisions are appropriate. I would ask you to look at these very carefully, because these provisions do not apply to the rule of law, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u248	We're rule of law, I think. It's self-proof. Mr. Antony Gregos has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u249	Thank you, Mr President. We have also denounced the procedure concerning the amendment of more than a hundred pages and the very many articles. We will, however, study it because it is likely to have a positive effect. Mr. Dritsas has been quoted in an outline. I think, however, that he might not know exactly what this amendment says. Of course, we don't trust you. We are talking about a very serious bill, which concerns issues of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy, issues relating to the Port Corps and the Port Coast Guard. Our special speaker, Mr Kouzilos, who is aware of all issues, has been mentioned in detail. The evil of the placements of the competent ministers in this ministry, but also of others, is that usually the ones placed in this post, very little or nothing to do with the subject. They are usually doctors or lawyers or engineers. This Ministry, however, has very specific and specific problems and requires excellent knowledge of the subject, as much as there are advisers from the Ministers and State Secretarys. This is, of course, respected by all governments. I think, however, that this is only the case in our country. Since we are discussing island policy, we must condemn once again the crime the government commits against the inhabitants of the islands of Lesvos, Chios, Samos, Kos with the hordes of illegal immigrants who have been flooded - and continue to flood - these islands, causing a massive number of crimes, which, of course, are not punishable. Of course, no reason for relocations to Turkey.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u250	What do you suggest?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u251	You know our proposals very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u252	What do you suggest?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u253	I'll finish and answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u254	Should we sink them?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u255	No, we didn't say to sink them. Let me tell you that the war has stopped and these people must return to their homelands. As for what we are proposing, you know our proposals very well. But you should visit the island to discuss with the inhabitants if you dare. To say here that this policy you are implementing is very likely to lead us to some unforeseen situations. Of course, you will have absolute responsibility. The well-known SYRIZO - Folklore of the "SONTAKTES", which often hosts interviews of terrorists to satisfy its readers, today characterizes the protest of the people of Mytilini entitled "The protest in Mytilini smelled fascism". The role of this particular booklet has been taken over by the Greek people. Of course, no reason for attempting to rape a thirty-year-old Greek woman in Argos from dozens of illegal immigrants who have been avoided at the last minute, which is now common, such as murders and robbery. You're not so sensitive here. With regard to the problems relating to the Port House and which the Macedonian and Thrace port authorities are invoking in an official document, these are the result of the implementation of the 'port Kallikratis' which has stripped and weakened the services, the port authorities and the organic power of this House. For example, the reduction of staff from ten thousand to two hundred and fifty executives is mentioned in seven and a half thousand. We are talking about the areas from Volos to Alexandroupolis, Halkidiki, Thassos, Samothrace. Let us note here that these areas have a strong tourist movement of at least six months a year. Thus, many of these services fail to operate with transfers and movements made to other areas. Another very important factor is security in the region, an area bordering on the northern border, as you know with Turkey, and is facing the huge problem with the uncontrolled influx of illegal immigrants. In fact, as it says in the port document complaint, it is the only area from Kavala to Alexandroupolis that does not exist a step by step of the port House special missions. We're talking about an excellent service. As the People's Association - Golden Dawn we have tabled too many questions about the issues we are discussing in this bill. In particular, in a question on December 9, 2013, MP Kouzilos had tabled a question on the restructuring of services in the Thrace region, stressing the specificities of this region of national importance. Following New Democracy's policy faithfully, you are not correcting the criteria for assessing the structures of the central offices of the Port Authority. You continue and do not change the "port Kallikratis". For example, the entire Halkidiki prefecture does not have a central port office. The existing ports are not sufficient for the role to be played and burdened by tourism. They are subordinated and problems perpetuate. A similar question concerning central Macedonia was tabled on 25 May 2015 on the problems that you, of course, were not able to solve for the regions of Skala Katerini, Nea Moudania and other regions, stressing once again the lack of and means - I am talking about coastal patrol vessels, inflatable vessels, modern patrol cars and twins - in place of the old, but also about housing and medical care issues of the Port Body. You had a commitment in the election...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u256	Mr. Comrade, are there any vacant posts in Halkidiki?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u257	There is no port office in Halkidiki.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u258	I'm asking you. When you say it's subordinated, do you mean there are vacant posts? You're telling the House these things? I mean, mercy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u259	Halkidiki, Minister, is an area that is extremely deserving. You have made a commitment in the election that you will resolve these issues, but you have also been faithful, such as your predecessors, in 'Others we say and promise and other we do or do nothing'. In your answer you say that there is supervision and knowledge of any real issues that have arisen in the functioning of the services and the port authorities of central Macedonia and more generally of northern Greece, but nothing has been done so far. Supervision, evaluation and surface designs are not enough to solve the chronic problems. Immediate action is needed in order to achieve immediate results. The increased responsibilities of the Port House require staff and we cannot recognise the huge offer in our country, which is about defending the maritime borders, the safety of ports, maritime facilities, the protection of shipping and the marine environment. That is why it is essential that full staffing and proper training be provided whenever they are called upon to do their duty. We had also tabled a relevant question on 25-6-2015. I won't mention it. The faithfully and outreached memorial policies that you apply with the guidance of the loan-tooths have consequences for each country's lives. The lies about exiting the memorials, supposedly in August 2018, are no longer believed by your remaining voters. In all of this, the tactics of putting wrong people into key positions not just solve, but magnify problems. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. In a country that can be financially supported in areas such as primary production, tourism and shipping, you have shown dissatisfaction, clandestineness, relationships with interests and artisans, bad choices and anxiety. Admit at least your mistakes and stop lying, because your political time is running out. Of course, the Prime Minister does not have political courage, but an excess of political obesity, as the Greek people understand and prove it every day, unfortunately. Fortunately there is a strong Golden Dawn in and out of Parliament fighting for the Greeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u260	Thank you very much Mr Grego. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, twenty-six students and students and two teachers from the 2nd General High School of Nafpaktos (first Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Symblene has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u261	Thank you, Mr President. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the bill that we are voting on today by the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy, the fruit of multi-month consultation and processing, and the services of the Ministry and the political leadership, is a bill which I would describe as a bill of democratisation and transparency in central areas that employ Greek shipping, but also a bill which lays down important provisions for the islands and especially for the small islands, but also for the ports of the country. In relation to democratisation and transparency in three main areas, the bill refers to the issue of inspection of ships and classifications, the issue of the Port Corps - Greek Coast Guard and the issue of the receipt and management of waste. In particular, for the Port House and the Greek Coast Guard, I think that two innovations are being introduced very basic, which have also been criticised by Anti-Population - both by the New Democracy and the other Anti-Population - but without real arguments. The first issue is who decides on changes in service. We did. See you again. Read the specific wording of Article 26. It's not the Minister's decision. It is not just an advisory body, the transfer board. The Minister shall validate the tables of relocations drawn up by the Board of Transfers. Read it again and, finally, I imagine that until the end of this sitting, do not repeat the same argument. The second innovation, which concerns the Port House and is a very important issue, is the introduction to the schools of the Port House with pan-Hellenic examinations. It is therefore a serious innovation, despite the criticism that there is tolerability, etc. There's always tolerability when you're applying something for the first time. In any case, the principle is always half of everything. Before I speak about the important provisions for small islands and ports, I would like to say a few words about maritime tourism. It is essentially an institutional framework of rules, security and the fight against illegality in the running of the tourist ships of the country's marine tourism, which is a really serious pillar of the country's tourism development, a serious pillar, which had been underestimated for years by the Greek state. It employs thousands of businesses and workers both on the islands and on the Greek coastline, and I think that these articles, many of which had been adopted, but had not been operated by Mr Varvitsiotis, indeed give this impetus to operate a framework of rules on maritime tourism. In relation to the ending of voyages, because a lot has been said, that the ending of voyages, etc. is excessively increased, I would like to say: Firstly, it was introduced since 2013 and has not been collected until now even EUR 1. And that is a question of exactly how it was done and whether the previous government wanted to implement it, even though it voted. The second is that on board more than 12 metres, since they operate for professional use, there is a possibility of a reduction of up to 45%. And the third is - the political leadership has accepted - that during the decommissioning period these ships will not pay fees. Therefore, it is very important. Also, in discussion with the Secretary-General of Ports there is a change in the end of ports, which has injustices, which will immediately be corrected in the next period by a joint ministerial decision, because a joint ministerial decision of 2014 is changed and amended. Now in relation to the coastline, I have seen a great deal of reaction from the rapporteurs mainly from the New Democracy in relation to Article 76, which he is doing? It sets the framework for programming contracts between the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and the Local Government I and II. And I ask: what does he do during the winter period mainly? Because in the summer we are all well and, of course, with the work carried out by the Ministry of Shipping's political leadership in the last two, three years, there has been an improvement in maritime connections, whether by conventional or speedboats, throughout the summer period. It is therefore trying to meet the needs that are not met and will not be met in the century by today's ferry companies, because there is no profit for these companies on these lines. And, as the new maritime network, which is currently under way with combined transport, we will have routes which we cannot imagine today and which will serve the islands, serve the transport of goods and serve through this network. I will also say a word about the legalisation of ports, which is really a request for decades. For decades the country has remained illegal and this has created many problems in connection with the operation of ports and in relation to restorations from disasters, natural disasters and others. They are very important provisions and have been supported by all institutions throughout Greece. I will say one last word on Article 78 in relation to the rights of workers. It is also a provision - in fact a cut-off - that workers and their insurance contributions can be paid before the ship begins. This is very important and meets needs that have so far not been met. I will also say something about the issue of reduced VAT on the islands, because there is a great deal of talk and a great deal of spice - to allow me - and there is great demagogy and hypocrisy. I would firstly remind you that in the summer of 2015, two hundred twenty-one MPs from all parties - except Golden Dawn and the JRC - have necessarily voted to increase the reduced VAT rates for all islands. The government has never wanted and never welcomes this increase, because it is in the context of islands to be peculiar, as there is in all the countries of the European Union and their island regions. Go to Spain, Portugal and everywhere and look at the differentiated rates. But we are the victims of a policy which the European Court of Auditors itself presented in its report. If you read the report of the European Court of Auditors, you will see how much all three Memorandums have worked without strategic planning, with carelessness and dishonesty from the institutions and European services. That's the situation. We must not dedicate Europe or the European Union, as they operate, nor anyone else. Unfortunately, however, you have bankrupt the two parties of power for decades, and now you are also asking for the change. So this compromise has been made. Last year the battle was fought and VAT was not increased on the islands of the eastern Aegean. Today, in these days we're talking, we're fighting again and you don't know it, but you're telling some newspapers about letters that don't actually correspond, Mr. Juncker and others. The government has so far given the battle to extend the suspension of VAT. In any case, if we do not succeed, there will be immediate compensatory measures, which we have been discussing for two years - it is a fact - but now it is time, with the credibility of the budgetary policy that we have achieved, that we can achieve compensatory measures for the islands, the permanent inhabitants of the islands, to which VAT has been increased and that it has gone to 24%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u262	Thank you very much Mr. Armalene. The floor is for the Independent MEP, Mr. Karras for seven minutes. On the occasion of Mr. Karras coming to Stepma, I would like to inform the House that in the debate we had on the budget in the Senate - without knowing - I have also made a recommendation on VAT, and I have also given a study to Mr. Juliarakis, in which it seems that for the three islands of the northern Aegean, which are also charged with immigrants, the financial footprint from 17% to 24% of VAT is around EUR 20 million. If we put on all the islands, it can go to 68 million euros. And since the study was very good, it has been kept, it will be studied and we will probably be able to negotiate for a year an extension of the reduced VAT scheme on the islands, to remain at 17%. Here, Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u263	Thank you, Mr President. This particular bill refers in particular to Greek shipping. It's one of the most important pieces of Greek life. I have tried to concentrate on the issues it is negotiating, but I have to say that I have really had difficulty because I have seen that we have aggregation of funds and, from there, no one can draw concrete conclusions to pursue the policy that they want to pursue. Why am I saying that? A little while ago - about 12.30 minutes ago - the amendment tabled by the Ministry came in my hands. I will not go into the number of hundreds of fourteen pages - the fact is that the legislative text is much smaller - but I am surprised at two points: Firstly, articles of this bill, as mentioned in the report on consequences, had been consulted, and I call on Article 5 which says that it has been consulted with the institutional representatives of the fishermen. All the provisions proposed by Article 7 were the subject of consultation with the stakeholders. So why does it come now, when it could have been incorporated into the bill at first, so that it can also be processed in the committees, but that there can also be a broader debate within Parliament? My question remains. Secondly, however, the same amendment, consisting of seven articles with several paragraphs, namely a legislative text, has on page 85 a list of regulatory acts, presidential decrees, joint ministerial decisions, which are necessary for the full implementation in practice of the proposed provisions. Similarly, we have a reference to a number of presidential decrees, joint ministerial decisions and ministerial decisions. And the question now arises: Are the too many powers given to the human administration capable of being described? Those provisions of the draft law to which they refer do not include the contour of delegation, i.e. a summary setting out those matters which the Minister is asked to clarify by means of his decisions or by the Presidential Decrees to be proposed. And so the result remains: a bill of ministries comes to Parliament. I have to say this with all the consequence of my speech. It is a bill by which the legislature was finally transferred to the Minister and does not hold it, because the number of issues raised is too great.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u264	Mr. Carras, if you want, just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u265	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u266	Mr. Carras, you're a top lawman and we've known each other for many years. The New Democracy accuses me of not bringing a decree to settle matters.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u267	Don't get me into trouble with New Democracy. I have my own personal opinion. Don't bother me with what New Democracy says.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u268	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u269	So I'm coming back. Since you were kind enough to put yourself in this direction, Minister, I must say this: I want the laws of whatever government to be able to bring about and work. A law that has provisions and reliance on regulation cannot work effectively. So you take the burden personally to see the time when the regulatory acts and their content will be adopted. But let's see something else if you want. We can see whether they will be lawful in relation to the legislative delegation or will be seized later on with applications for cancellation. But we should go to the specific issues of the bill. This bill has provisions which are of particular attention, after the issue of "Agia Zoonis 2", which has troubled both the Ministry and the services, as well as the coastal area of Attica. I have a particular sensitivity here, because I am an islander and I cannot give up on these efforts that have been made. Unfortunately, however, my conclusion is negative for the government's overall course. This summer we had three big events. We had extensive forest fires, the "AYIA ZONI 2" and the day before Mandra. Do you know what I think of these accidents? That there is no prevention policy. In fact, in particular, I can say that there is no policy to prevent it. It's not just after the fire, after the shipwreck, or after the flood was destroyed. Do we have the capacity to deal with and predict? I'm afraid not. I do not want to be acidic, but I have come to a conclusion that will probably displease many. The one who prevents does not acquire any glory. He is a silent worker who helps the society in which he is from where he is. But the one who states "I have dealt with destruction and restored it" attempts to gain glory after the incident. Unfortunately, even though Mr Kourublis - as I have to say, he is an old friend and a qualified lawyer here, I think he has failed to do so. Because the efforts he has made following the events of 'Agia ZONI 2' were, of course, overactive - I cannot question it - but I do not know yet whether they were effective. I look forward to the overall outcome of this effort, because I must also express a complaint about the framework of parliamentary control. Parliamentary control has raised many colleagues to contact the Minister and to ask for answers. I asked for an answer, and I didn't have the chance to get one. In fact, I had to reassign my question. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Minimum tolerance, Mr President, please. Looks like what I asked was hard. I have been asked to give me the operational emergency plan for the preparation and treatment of the oil pollution and degradation incidents of the Saronic Gulf. I didn't have the chance to ever get to my hands. Perhaps there was neither an information I had - I do not know if it is valid - was obsolete from the beginning of 2010. I put the question I asked about the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Georgios - Dimitrios Karras, presents the above question for the minutes, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] To sum up, therefore, because time is minimal, I have to say this. In my view, the deficit in the prevention of accidents in Greece remains. The effort being made, it is assumed, by this bill, which depends on a number of regulatory instruments, cannot be known whether it will succeed and will take a long time to prepare. So the issue remains, the risks remain. Let me wish they won't. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u270	Thank you very much Mr. Carras. Mr Odysseus Constantinople has the floor from the Democratic Association, and then the Minister will speak. Here, Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, Mr President. I wonder if the SYRIZA Members who will vote for the amendment, if the Minister accepts it, have even read one of the hundreds of fourteen pages? Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, today you are still making a breakthrough. Apart from Mr Kammenos, with whom you have become accomplices, you are, unfortunately, simply voters. You say 'yes' to everything, to what the Minister brings, as in the hundred and ten pages without having read them, without knowing them. You don't even know what their contents are. Unfortunately, you don't even know what their contents are. This is the humiliation of the SYRIZA and ANEL Parliamentary Group by the Ministry and the Ministers. You'll vote for it all. Minister, both Spyros Danellis and George Arvanitidis have had a debate in committee and have raised all the issues. We have raised an issue concerning solid and liquid waste. I think we all want the market to be opened, to have transparency rules. It is hard to see how you want it, but in any case we share your view. I'll put the matter back to you. If these are to be judged in the next period, either at European Union level or at Greek courts and tribunals and disappear, it means that you had something in mind, you knew that these would be judged by fines for the Greek State and you did so. He'll have to find out why you did it. I want to tell you two issues. First of all, I understand that the game is getting fat, because the 'COSCO' has come out of a competition, and you are bringing about a legal improvement in the fact that the competition cannot take place since the 1st of November. You bring it, in other words, by a one-month process before you can prevent the competition made by 'COSCO', a company that Mr Dritsas once again, who is Minister, no matter what he says, he knows. You will allow me to say that the sitting was closed during the committee sitting. He said there's no need for any change and he changed the whole bill and you voted for it again. I wonder what will happen if the complaint goes to DIGICOM. I would remind you that the complaint concerning the registers concerning the TEI has gone and paid the Greek state, the Greek State. You guys, as far as I understand it, are sure that's not going to happen. Secondly, you know that when a regulation is incorporated, not whole, but part of the regulation, there is still a problem. Thirdly, Article 20 has signed it with 'COSCO', because the Greek State cannot be too private and can change the rules as government. You signed it, you brought it to the Greek Parliament, no one else brought it. If these fall into the courts, that is all we ask you to do if you have ensured that the Greek public will not be charged and problems will not be created that the Greek people will have to pay. If you have ensured that, and if there is one, the course will show it. But if you do what you do to earn a year for anyone, then time will judge it again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u272	Mr. President, will you give me a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u273	Minister, you'll be speaking in two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u274	We are telling you that what you are doing, in our view, which you will never clarify, has to do - I understand - with economic interests in the port. We want there to be the same rules for everyone. I believe that you do not guarantee them in this way and will need to be paid and fines. We'll be here and we'll see. However, I am coming back to you, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, because I see that you are now five in plenary, and I tell you that it brings you an amendment of a hundred fourteen pages which you do not even know until the first page. Will you vote for her, too? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u275	Thank you very much, Mr. Constantinople. The Minister has the floor for eighteen minutes. By the way, you answer, if you like, and Mr. Constantinople.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u276	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the point of order I asked for an apologies for the delay, and I meant it. I was expecting an understanding, because they are not economically related provisions. They solve years of critical and substantial problems. So I understand the difficulty. I have no objection to meeting tomorrow and to conclude. But we cannot go next week, ladies and gentlemen, because the IMO World Assembly is taking place. There are a hundred seventy-two countries and for the first time a Greek Minister will be a central speaker. I say this, to remember some things, because here we think that we are talking from the Step and those listening to us in Greece have a memory of goldfish, when it has had twenty-seven years for the Minister of the world's largest shipping to the Lloyds of London, who know what it means to shipping. These are the works and the days of the past. And you come here as "fute virgins" and say what you want. Ladies and gentlemen, when the political speech contains personal designations, cannibalistic elements, misinformation and lies, I honestly believe that those who take him have nothing to say to Greek society, rather than to capture their character. We're all judging. Unless the Greek people, when they vote for you, are good and have wisdom and vote for others with tens of thousands of votes - because I did not want to talk about a personal issue - it is in error! We're so deeply parliamentary when we work like this! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Saridis, I will indeed repeat the great sea state, because Hellenism is linked to the sea and what this means from a social and economic point of view. The fact that today Greece is the world's first shipping power with four thousand and five hundred large ships is not a random event. It comes from far away and can go away. This bill, therefore, which is a bill that has been opened in the most open way to public consultation, really comes to prove that we can, through a creative dialogue, launch a piece of legislation practical, effective, creative, innovatory, transparent. Twenty - four bodies came to the House and so many sent memorials. So bring me one of them who asked for the bill to be withdrawn. I say that, so that the Greek people understand what we're talking about. You are the only ones who are unable to support a bill that solves chronic problems in this area, because you have not read it. I say that in the light of the fact that I hear speakers from this Step forward referring to specific issues. I understand what the last speaker said. I understand his concern and I call it a good thing. But read, my dear colleague, the report by the Scientific Committee of the Parliament on this article, to see that the Scientific Committee makes two comments which we will consider, but it considers that this article is compatible with European law. Who, then, will we be in danger? Ladies and gentlemen, this bill brings new customs, new institutions that will really change all this environment linked to Greek shipping. This draft law, from Article 1 to Article 15, upgrades the characteristics of inspectors and auditors. Do you need to or don't you need to? You didn't tell us. It also creates a school, because auditors can play a catalytic and crucial role in the quality of navigation. This bill, from Article 15 to Article 25, enables new institutions, such as radiopharmaceuticals, to be created. This new institution will really contribute to safe navigation. We are a country with many islands, with many sea channels. I should also like to say about the record that increases, Mrs Manolakou, the possibility from four to five years. You say you won't vote for it. Anyway, what can you vote for?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u277	Not the Navy Fingers' Fingers' Fingers!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u278	All right, all right! Folding! Only you are democrats. We're not. We all have a story in this place, Mrs Manolakou, both in the issues of democracy and in the social struggles. I mean, mercy! It is not a monopoly on some people, with all due respect for the historical struggles of the Communist Party. You can't think it's a monopoly for someone. Mercy! Let's go to Articles 25 to 51. As far as Rule 26 is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, I do not know whether Mr Athanasios is here, who is a well-known legal judge. Is it possible to say these things and allow your resignation to say them? That is to say, when the provision says that the Minister's decision says 'are moved, transferred and transferred?'. The Minister's decision is to approve the decisions of the advisory bodies, and you came here and said that we should give them to the Chief. Now, how did you appoint the leaders, let go. "Div, Lord, prison my mouth"!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u279	How do you define them?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u280	"Div, Lord, prison my mouth"! Let it go. Leave what happened and how many people are in court so far. Not to say. Disciplinary law. Was there? Was it connected to the register, to the duties of the representatives of the Port Authority? For seventeen years it's been unresolved. I didn't hear you say anything. So let me go to Articles 51 to 57. Ladies and gentlemen, if you had a bit of a glimpse of these articles, you would all vote on them. I would therefore say to the Greek people, if you wish and cause me, that for those who bought you, there was no provision for maintenance. Do you know where the money goes to the markets? They're on their way to maintenance. Does the Greek people know that twenty years ago you took a 20 billion-dollar system and never worked? Tell the Greek people. A total of 20 billion was paid, ladies and gentlemen, by the Greek people, for this maritime monitoring system and it has never worked. These are the works. Not to mention the ships, the ships you bought. Let me say that you gave Croatian dirt yard six ships, fourteen million euros of the Greek people? You know the consequences if they've ever been built. Didn't you have the care to ask our embassy there if this shipyard is reliable and you come here and talk about this government? We will find the way to do what serves the Greek people, what I said and disagreed with a colleague from New Democracy about whether we can do it. We'll do it. We will find the way, because we have the will to support Greece. We will do what you have not done with the Greek shipyards and you have led them to destruction. You come here and you talk about this. Does the Greek people not know what happened to Scaramaga all these years, about the measures that you have given Mr. Safhas the opportunity to grab and come and say what you want? What do we do? Fifteen-year planning, staffing and equipment. We will bring the motions to the House, to the Trade Monitoring Committee, so that the House can take into account them, not because the Minister has decided to make provisions. You didn't have the courage to recognize this either. What more can one do to make the procurement procedures transparent? I inform you that upgrades will be made with all these programmes and with maritime surveillance and procedures will be carried out in the most transparent way. We'll do all the things you haven't done over the years that you've bought ships in drunken ways from the Netherlands and from here. Is that what you want me to say?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u281	What have you done?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u282	You'll see them along the way.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u283	We'll see. We'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u284	You'll see them and you'll criticize them. We're open. Come here and report us, Mr. Placiotakis. Come to the Ministry one day.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u285	You have 200 million. What have you done? Three years you've been government.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u286	Come on. I've called you many times, but you don't come to the Ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u287	Mr. Placiotakis, please don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u288	Come on. I've called you. The Ministry is not the property of Kurubli. The Ministry is the Greek people and the parties have the right to come to control the Minister, the State Secretarys, the Secretary General, all. You never came. You're making a safe policy with flares.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u289	I've come many times.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u290	Ladies and gentlemen, from Rule 58 to 75 I have not heard any serious arguments and opposition. I didn't hear. They are provisions which really solve the problems of workers. So let's go to Article 76. The New Democracy accuses us of stacking the coastline and the Communist Party tells us that we sell to shipowners. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, this government has done everything that has not been done so far on the coastline, what has not happened so far! The Greek people's money for the barren lines was spent to get rich, Mrs Manolakos, shipowners over the years.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u291	And they keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u292	No, you're wrong. Come on, Mrs Manolakou, with me to take you to Onousses, see what the people say, take you to Psaras, take you to the connection that we now make to Alexandroupolis and Samothrace with the North Aegean. Come and take you to Ithaca, which for the first time after twenty years we connect Patras to Ithaca. Come on, let me take you to a series of these areas and see what's going on. I really am astonished that New Democracy has come completely impassable, really impassable, even the people of New Democracy who know things. Mr Patoulis came and fully agreed with Article 76, to which the New Democracy disagrees. Local government and regional government fully agree. What is going on here, ladies and gentlemen? Of our 102 islands, the 50 islands are negotiating. If tomorrow's shipping blackmails - because this is happening - it will be possible for every small island to make its own contracts. This is the greatest incision that could be done, and we dare that, because we are not anyone's undermining interests. Only by such provisions are the political system upgraded. Only such initiatives are served by society. Do you want me to tell you, then, what has happened in the Aegean Sea for the last three years? So bring me a complaint from these orgys that were made, that you were paying barren lines that were never implemented. You saw what we were doing with the ship 'VITSENJOS KORNAROS'. That's what you've done all these years.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u293	What did you do?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u294	If you don't know, go ask the Cythera to tell you what we did, because we don't submit to the logic of these interests. We serve the local communities. We cut it off and brought another ship, which reliably serves society. What happened to Lemnos? Aren't you going to ask the people of Lemnos if they ever had lines? As for Article 77, weep or laugh? In the SAL, the body which is primarily responsible for the port facilities, for the studies in ports - listen, ladies and gentlemen, to the Greek people - was not involved in the Shipowners' Union! In other words, the people responsible, who put and take ships out in the ports, did not participate in the competent body planning the ports! These were your works and your days! Let's go to Article 78. Mrs Manolakou, won't you vote on Article 78? Think it over.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u295	We have tabled an amendment, Mr Minister, to a different 'white'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u296	Consider it again, because what no one dared to do to this day, those who tell them that we are friends of shipowners, dares this government. He won't leave a ship unless they've been paid. Mr. Athanasios, I don't know if you're here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u297	He's not here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u298	You have come - and I welcome you - to accept it - for rights for workers who have not been paid to date, since your time, Mr Athanasios. Let me see. Will you vote on this article, as well as the amendment, the relevant article, Mrs Manolakou, will you vote on it? You know, ladies and gentlemen - for the Greek people to know - what was a ship that had been arrested for undeclared work? He paid 300 euros. What do we do now? Will it be EUR 10,500 for every worker and will you not vote for it? Hi, I'm glad to meet you. As far as Article 79 is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, I have heard tears about maritime education schools. Do I have to make my cross? It's really impressive. Mr. Placiotakis, after you have made personal reports, I ask you: In the last ten years when you have been a government, a euro was given to the Naval Education School in Crete for its equipment? One, not two. Do you know how much will be given now? EUR 2.5 million will be provided. You know or you don't know that you voted with your vote and cut the feeding of children in maritime education schools? Do you know which people go to naval education schools? The poorest kids. In your knowledge you are asking to postpone the vote on this provision now, Mr Plakatakis. You know that by this provision we will be able to bring back this crime you have committed, feed the maritime education schools. That is what the amendment you are saying to withdraw. There's nothing wrong with CIF secrets. That's what you're doing! May I say that you have been abrogated, ladies and gentlemen, by voting in 2013, the 200 out of the 280 teachers' posts in maritime education schools? We came and we got maturers - because you know very well that with ADP the process is not simple - to meet these needs with 290 teachers, because you know that the programmes had been degraded. At the moment, the "Evgenides" Foundation, in cooperation with the Ministry, has set up a team of experts to upgrade the timeline. We connected the schools for the first time, gentlemen. Did you ever go, Mr. Arvanitidis, to Engineering school and come here now and tell us these nice things? So let's see if all of you ever visited here, those of you who are opposition, the schools of maritime education. Nobody!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u299	Many times.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u300	Right now. I know if you've gone. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u301	You're the one who came to the ministry now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u302	I know what I'm saying! You never did. That's the truth, and you come here and you say. What do you think? Irresponsible verbs, because we're really doing a serious job. We put money into all the regional programs for school equipment. Five and a half million we put in for the White Tower School. For the first time, we connected the universities and the TEIs to the schools. For the first time! We have opened a dialogue with the specialised university for the maritime education of Stockholm, the IMO. It's never happened. That's what happened! And you come here and you say weep! Panhellenic exams: Yes, gentlemen, we will go into a deep intersection to upgrade and you do not have political courage nor that to support. We're not doing what was happening until today. We signed a memorandum of cooperation with the Democritus University for the first time and we will ask for his support to create the academy, not Athens, but in the most sensitive areas of the country, such as Alexandroupolis. That's what this government does and you're shaking that up, because you never dared to do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u303	In words.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u304	Describe it in the law, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u305	All right, all right. From Article 80 to 85 there is a number of provisions which really favour and enable political officials to resolve problems, as well as the possibility of them being involved in foreign positions. That's something that's never happened. Now we're going to Articles 85 to 105. Ladies and gentlemen, now what can I say about the end and the pleasure boats? Mr. Placiotakis, has SYRIZA been ruling over the years in the Aegean Sea by illegal chartering of thousands of ships? You forced Mr. Stellito to tell you that there was no era like this today. You think he joined the SYRIZA all of a sudden? Maybe! Let me tell you something else, which Mr. Dimitris Kammenos said. You did not tell us how many millions of euros have been spent during your period on ship subsidies from Katmaran, which had to be another purpose and another one they are doing. You didn't tell us that. But if a prosecutor hears us now, he owes us tomorrow morning to initiate a procedure, because millions of euros have been spent and wealthy people have become rich and have acquired catamaran. You're doing all this. You don't know it. You never said it. So let's see which gentlemen took these and why they don't serve the purpose for which they were subsidized. Are you going to tell us anything about your dentistry and that? The end is not about boats that are still in motion and Mr Katsikadis knows about it, as we know they have received discounts of up to 55%. None of these bodies complains. Everyone understands what we are trying to do in a spirit of understanding and cooperation. I'll tell you about the port facility. Since the establishment of the Greek state, can you tell us in your second speech, Mr Placiotakis, how many ports did master plan have in the country?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u306	Will you tell us anything about 'COSCO'?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u307	To understand what you've done all these years!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u308	We've done a lot.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u309	You were tourists in this ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u310	Thank God you're here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u311	You're walking around the Aegean Sea. That's what you did!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u312	And someone else was a Undersecretary!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u313	This ministry is working, and has it become a headquarters and I'll tell you something else? To date I have seen a hundred eighty two entities directly and indirectly involved in shipping issues. Bring me a body that denounces the Minister to see what we do and what you do. An agency, tell me. You think they're all symbols? Maybe. In fact, therefore, these articles concerning port facilities solve time-consuming problems. Let the Greek people hear them. Many port funds had money and the possibility of doing projects, and because of this looseness, which no one dared to hurt all these years, they could not improve their infrastructure. Otherwise, you have made development policies. This is development intervention, ladies and gentlemen, a deep development intervention that solves problems created by the establishment of the Greek state and you come here and tell us "in other words we love each other". On Rule 103, I would like to say the following. Ladies and gentlemen, we are giving the small islands the opportunity to have revenues and to place order on an anarchy that they had and which they did not want to pay. We give the opportunity to all these small islands. They know about these fifty islands that are under five thousand. For the first time we dared and continued Panagiotis Skourletis to fund them by improving the indicators they were wronged. This government did these for these small islands that saw a white day. You know, ladies and gentlemen, what did the mayor of Oinousses tell me when I went to visit the island? "Mr. Minister, when I was young I was asking my father who had a grocery store on the beach: "This great ship, why doesn't it ever stop in the Onousses?" And he told me it was a summer night dream. So now that since Dritsa's time the ship entered this line and goes to the Onousses, I go to my father's grave and say to him: "Father the ship came". Do you know what this means to this island, to the Fish or to other small islands? And you come here and say what this bill does? That's what this bill does. It responds to society's chronic problems. That is why Mr Patoulis, who represents the local government, has fully supported the bill, because he acknowledges that these provisions solve these problems and you around elsewhere are being smuggled. About Article 106, or rather 105 with the counting...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u314	Minister, you're in twenty-seven minutes while you were eighteen. Are you taking time from...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u315	As you know, I have no text.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u316	I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u317	I'm done. A little tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u318	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u319	The Scientific Committee of the Parliament gives the opportunity to answer the questions that exist. This is the provision with greater transparency. I am pleased that the Communist Party is voting for it, from what I have heard, because it really opens up this space that you know very well all these years how it works. Read it well and think about what you will do by the end of the vote. Regarding the remaining provisions from 106 to 109, I would like to say: Ladies and gentlemen, this provision that I am talking about really did not suddenly come to Parliament. The provision for the Greek classification societies came another time, Mr Arvanitidis, I do not know if Mr Arvanitidis is here - he came from the time of Mr Diamandis. He didn't come back when you said that. Read Mr Diamandi's ministerial decision well. We don't say anything more. So we say that at the moment we are changing the status of the Greek classifications. This is where the Greek shipowners, as the Greek Government supports them in the issues they are concerned with in Europe, finally put their hand in the pocket too and cooperate in order to get the country with the greatest shipping a formal international classification rather than these things. It is shameful in this Parliament that Members elected by the Greek people go up to the Step Memorandum and say: 'No, do not change this regime'. It's disgraceful, it's disgraceful! We know very well what was going on and you know it, too. I was really paralyzing it and we are now putting in a framework and we say to them: 'Masters, adapt to the new data, or you'll be closed'. We are therefore giving them the time margin that was given to them and the decision by Mr Diamandides, which was subsequently abolished. I don't want to make any more comments. So the order is here and it says that they need to be adapted. So I'm listening to a slut for the tiles. What has happened to this day, ladies and gentlemen? External partners have gone in. And now what does the arrangement say? With all due respect, but you're forcing me to tell you you're not reading. What does the layout say? It says that all of these, as soon as they take up this responsibility, must have thirty permanent employees, which means they will be able to organise networks. He's talking about networks, about obligations now. If they don't have these, they won't be able to get permission. It's clear and clear. Now for the age of ships. I sincerely expected to hear colleagues here say: 'Bravo, at last', because this provision came to Parliament many times, and something was done at the last minute, some strange, dark, and they took it back. Well, now it will be voted on. And because you told me about Europe, I told you to come to the House. In Europe, there is indeed no such provision. But what's there? All refinery regulations do not accept ships over 20 years old. That's all there is. You must know. So when our refineries too will make such a decision, this provision will not be needed, but it must now come in, because you know very well that most of these ships are'shoes'. That's the truth. Well, as much as we improve them, a ship of fifty-five years old, sixty years old, you understand that it's not a ship that can be corrected, no matter what you add to it. Petresis. For the first time, they are obliged to give a spot. Do you know what happened with the stone? As far as it wasn't for the signal, the drills would go and go. That's what happened. That is why there is so much reaction from various circles to the provisions of this bill, because it conflicts with many and dark interests. That's the truth, and that's the reality. I have not heard you comment on this. I heard my dear old friend and colleague Mr. Carras. Mr. Carras, and you've been caught unbeatable.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u320	Don't say it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u321	Now listen to me. It is perhaps the only bill that, for the first time, comes to Parliament and provides for a mandatory period of time for the adoption of legislative acts and decrees. The entire bill is intended to be issued in time rather than what had been done in the last ten years, where you have heard the Greek people that you have passed laws that have provided for fifty thousand ministerial decisions that have never been adopted and three thousand decrees that have never been adopted. This law, therefore, also makes innovation on this point: for the first time, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister is obliged to provide and adopt ministerial decisions. I have heard some colleagues from the Golden Dawn. Ladies and gentlemen, 40% of port positions at the border were empty and if they were covered, half of them were seconded to Athens. I have the evidence. If you want me to give it to you. At the moment 98% of positions throughout the border are covered. And despite the financial difficulty, the Government also approved the frontier allowance for all these people, at the initiative of the Ministry of Shipping. Do you know how many port ships were parked all these years you've been government? Do you know how much we repaired and now operate on all the islands, offering services? What can I say?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u322	Minister, you're about to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u323	How long do I have to talk about works and days?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u324	Parliament must also speak and announce the high school that has come.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u325	I close, Mr President, by saying that it is a law that is useful, a bill that is useful, functional and effective. That is why it brings together the vast majority of the bodies involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u326	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, thirty-four students and students and two educational sessions from the 2nd General High School of Nafpaktos (second Chamber). The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u327	Mr President, I would ask the floor on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u328	Mr. Carras, there's no Republic at all!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u329	Why do you deprive me of my right?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u330	Was it something personal? It was a noble observation. It wasn't personal. Because we've wasted time, Mr. Carras, there's a chance we'll be done tonight. I mean, in respect of all of us...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u331	Mr President, for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u332	Here you go, Mr. Carras, for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u333	I would like the Minister to tell us, after he has taken over my impassment, what is the deadline set by the law? Is it for all regulatory acts or for some? And if there's a deadline to indicate the order to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u334	All of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u335	Where?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u336	All of them!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u337	Let's hear it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u338	I'll tell you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u339	All right, Mr. Carras.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u340	Mr. President, excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u341	Here you go, Mrs Manolaku.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u342	If we finish today, as you said, let us know from the parliamentary amendments which he accepts and which he does not.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u343	We hope to end today. There's one chance, we'll see. Maybe tomorrow too. Mr Theocharopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u344	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister spoke twice as much time as the time he was entitled to. I think Parliamentarians will also have your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u345	He took all his time. I won't give him any more.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u346	We do not want twice, but your tolerance, so that proper parliamentary control can be carried out. Minister, you have been extremely dismantling and abstract as a whole for opposition and parliamentarians. This is not good for the political system. You called indisputable arrests all politicians and all political sites. You said they didn't come to the House. You spoke with a populism that has no limit. Fortunately, you told us that you had agreed with Mr. Patulis on the bill. So, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, you have found a partner in this bill, Mr Patulis. This is the alliance you have made, as you have said. I think you understand, Minister, that this is not a level of dialogue that we can discuss the real problems of shipping and, if you like, the real problems of the country and a rebuilding plan at which shipping can play a decisive role. After three years, then, you legislated. [[Noise in the Chamber]] You will resolve your issues with Golden Dawn, Minister, then. Make dialogue with the Golden Dawn. Now, just listen to the opposition talking to you. The Minister's not listening. It's okay. Three years ago, it took us to discuss issues of our shipping policy in the Greek Parliament, and we should, as the economic crisis forces it increasingly, take advantage of and further strengthen the acquis of the leading role of Greek shipping. Three years of preparation, then, and the SYRIZA - ANEL Government brings in a bill with a promising title and with extremely ambitious objectives, without, of course, having the necessary infrastructure, as we have said. At the same time today, Minister, you have tabled an amendment - you have tabled it four hours ago - more than a hundred pages. Over a hundred pages! If this is not the humiliation of the parliamentary and legislative process, what is the definition of humiliation? Please withdraw the amendment. I would like to ask you, at some point, to have a debate with the committees, even in another bill, so that there can be a debate in the committees. Have you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, read this amendment and judged an article that he says? Citizens see us. The people who are interested in the space are now watching us. Is it possible to move forward in this way? You've done three years in this piece of legislation that you brought today, have you brought this 100-page amendment? Haven't you even prepared for it to be discussed with the committees? I think it's self-evident. This is an argument which does not stand, unless you mean that the opposition is not read in relation to this amendment, which you have, of course, read and knew. There can be no debate like this. I would ask for common sense, even at the last minute. You often have a nervousness, a panic that defines your policy. A characteristic example that you mentioned - and we disagree - is the ship surveillance system, which the Minister says is actually transforming it with this bill. However, a substantial transformation of the ship monitoring system must primarily respond to needs and new challenges and testify to justified reform proposals. It must not be dictated by the decommissioning of responsibilities and the need to decapitate the government from the tragic incident - which we discussed here in a timely question - the sinking of the supply tanker 'AHIA ZONI 2' and the huge ecological and economic consequences that followed in the Saronic Gulf. Easily words cost the Greek people. Since your Government has, in our view, proved itself, in that critical week, ready to prevent the disaster, since it has displayed an unjustified impediment and the measures taken have been inconsistent with the problem, it has then been faced with devastating pollution on a large coast of Attica. I'm not going into this. After all, the Greek people can understand and know how to judge. We have then pointed out the need for efficient management of the disaster, which left the shipwreck behind. What did you do? You have responded positively to an attempt to transfer responsibility only to administrative factors, and then you have launched a stormy briefing that everything is going well with the depollution of Saronics. After the revelations, of course, on the certificate of airworthiness that the ship had from the Ministry of Shipping, you decided to remove that responsibility from the Ministry and to transfer it to the classification societies. That's what this is about. And now we are here to state that from September 30, 2018, the issue of anticipated certificates of Greek ships from the ship control industry, the port authorities and the local stadiums ceases and is transferred to authorised organisations, the classification societies. At the same time, you cancel. While you take the primary checks and certification of Greek flag ships from the Ministry and give them to classification societies, at the same time legislate a system of training and certification of managers who will carry out checks and inspections on classification societies, ships and ports. So explain to us how it is possible to think that the ministry's service cannot respond to inspections, but it can well be controlled and supervised by classification societies. How is that possible? Have you studied and evaluated the effects in depth? The rapporteur for the Democratic Association, Mr Arvanitides, has explained them to you both in the committees and here, and has asked you specific questions. You haven't answered. Instead of laying down a roll, you are used to making progress in such a way that, in fact, as I had before you, you are plucking into the seas of the shipwreck in the Saronic, which marked another "shipwreck" of your government policy. Instead of finally taking over your responsibilities, you come and legislate another provision, which gradually prohibits the movement of shipping fuels by vessels over thirty years of age. We have heard your opinion. We've told you we don't agree. After you commit only the Greek flag ships, will you tell us what is going on with the rest of the thousands of foreign flag ships? How are you going to solve this particular problem?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u347	Mr President, can you give me the floor to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u348	You'll answer me, Minister. If you want, then we'll have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u349	I can answer you now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u350	If Mr Theocharopoulos agrees, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u351	I agree, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u352	Mr. Theoharopoulos, I am confused because I tell you that you are coming undetected. It's not about tankers. It is about ships making rock in the country. What does that have to do with what you're talking about? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It's not about tankers. It is about ships that make rock.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u353	That's exactly what I'm saying. What you are doing is unprecedented throughout the European Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u354	No relationship.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u355	That's exactly what we told you. We have told you that what you described is unprecedented throughout the European Union. And that's what you didn't disagree with. You have just justified why they are unprecedented throughout the European Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u356	You said one more thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u357	And here our memory turns back a few months into the tanker fiasco, which had undertaken the extraction of oil, if you remember well, after the shipwreck in which they were found and seized without legal documents. Why am I saying it? Because fuel smuggling - it is not just about you, Minister, it is about your government - it comes back to the fore again. The current government, three of your ministers, said that they would bring more than 1 billion - up to 2.5 billion, we heard from Mr Nicholas, from Mr Alexiadis - from the fight against fuel smuggling. The ministers who called them are gone. But smuggling is here. No complete plan even today. Partial and clipboard solutions. You are exaggerating everyone, because you cannot solve these problems and then you are urging you to have surpluses. I am not going to go into specific issues in the bill, where we could have a lot of discussion, because they have been exhausted by the rapporteur for the Democratic Partnership. I'll only tell you some. In the Strategic Operational Planning of the Port House, although we are in agreement at first - and we have told you that we do not have a sterile opposition, for example, we told you on the specific subject we agreed on at first - we wanted and we want you to explain why you ignored the Single Independent Public Procurement Authority and did not ask for its opinion, as it denounces. It is not the first time that you are ignoring or undermining the opinion of independent authorities. We understand that in your government you have allergy to the independent authorities and this is confirmed daily. And this question here is a typical example. Of course, there may be a specific answer, but we should take it. And at the end, I can expect either the SYRIZA rapporteur or the Minister to tell us why we do not consult the independent authorities as we should. I say this because today we have the example of another independent authority in Parliament, the Bureau of the Parliament's Budget Office. So what does Parliament's Budget Office say, an independent authority, about the budget? It is certainly about the specific economic situation in which we legislate any bill, and the current one, as we are in a state of economic suffocation. It says that "The combination of austerity and injustice reduces the success of an adaptation program". That's what the House's Budget Office says. It says: 'No social objective can be achieved, in essence, as we move with a clear preference for indirect taxes'. For the first time, your Government, after seven years, is increasing the ratio of indirect to direct taxes to 1.33 from 1.18 last year. For seven years. Is that a left-hand and progressive policy? The abolition of the reduced rates on the islands continues, the reduction of the heating allowance and all this is, in fact, a policy which is not just social. Of course, all this is highlighted in the report of the Bureau of the Parliament's Budget Office. It is a budget in which, in fact, you are again trying to achieve excessive surpluses, you are setting a target of 3.82% of GDP, to give over-taxation and to recycle poverty only. So we are negotiating abroad to reduce the primary surplus targets, which should be a national target, setting an ever-increasing primary surplus annually? There is an increase in revenue, which is constantly resulting from a logic affecting the socially weak layers. Of course, a new cut in pension. The cuts are 2 billion and 1.6 billion from pension. All this is what the House's Budget Office tells you, the opposition tells you. You do not hear all you do, as we read, is that you will not renew the office of President of Parliament's Budget Office, because you do not like his criticism. If this is a way of operating and respecting the independent authorities, I really think we cannot move from now on. I would also expect that in this bill there will be substantial arrangements for island policy, Minister. They're missing. You are, of course, recommending a Passenger Transport Council. But do you think that you are implementing your government commitment to protecting islands and exploiting combined transport, with a view to improving the connection between island regions and the mainland? Do you think this is the only problem the island regions are facing? Let us know if you intend to address this issue as a whole in another bill and when specifically. Because I don't think anyone thinks they're dealing with today. Ladies and gentlemen, shipping is one of the main pillars of the Greek economy and has the dynamics of attracting other sectors. However, a holistic approach to the industry's problems is always needed within the framework of an integrated National Production Reconstruction Plan of the country. This country's national productive reconstruction plan is unfortunately not being discussed in our country. For two and a half years now, you have not worked out such a National Production Reconstruction Plan. The country is constantly discussing issues relating to transparency because this bill has the word 'transparency'. What transparency, then, when we see what we are seeing these days in particular with critical issues in the country? We are talking about shipping, national defence, for example. It is crucial that we have seen in these specific issues that there is no transparency. I am also speaking to you as a member of the relevant Committees of the Parliament's Equipment Programmes. Really what has happened, what they have seen the light of publicity is out of every logic. The Minister, Mr Kammenos, has been given a chance to make a transnational agreement with Genaris, and in the summer this agreement was made with a mediator who, as Saudi Arabia says, was not the country's responsible representative. And, of course, all this harms the rule of law when we move on in such a matter of national defence. Instead of having answers and apologies for the government, we see a daily kitten by not actually being able to inform the members of the Committee on Equipment. The members of the Committee on Equipment have not been informed of the costs of F16 - we have learnt from Mr Trump about the amount - nor these issues. Of course, this debate will take place in detail on Monday and I do not need to go any further. But today's situation is that the Minister of National Defence says that from this House we will take the members of the Committee on Equipment to read out the documents submitted yesterday, but there is no such information in this House. You can understand that this cannot go any further. I have been a member of the Committee on Equipment for two and a half years and it has not leaked anything at all from the Committee on Equipment and they are members here to assure them. I do not understand why the committee has not been made aware of all these issues, because there is this panic in the government, the panic in the Greek Parliament, in relation to the thorough briefing of those who have dealt with them in full secrecy throughout the past period of time. That is why this panic shows that there is a serious problem. Dear SYRIZA colleagues, is there a limit to your co-government with the ANELs? I really would like to ask: will there be some time, after all that is proven, which you say 'we can't do everything for co-government, for power'? Will a limit finally prove to be on all that's going on? For otherwise it turns out, unfortunately, that you are hostages of Mr Kammenos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u358	Thank you very much, Mr. Theocharopoulos. This will prove to be the case. In the elections, the Greek people decide for everything. Ms. Big Economics, we've been a little delayed, but for good. You've heard a lot, so you'll have very good content.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u359	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, today I don't know, but you touched sensitive strings. You spoke of the Kytheras, you spoke of the Oinousses, you fell on two very sensitive points of mine. First of all, we're talking about VAT, but why was Cythera always the most unfair island? They always had 23% of all governments, even though they had a border with three thousand inhabitants. They never complained. In fact, they paid OTE overcrowded and made a request and made us a bourgeois unit. Then you referred to the Oinousses. The Hinouses have a school of merchants, my husband was in attendance there, and he had obtained the Lieutenant’s degree and traveled three - four years. When I was a student, I worked at a shipping company, and especially the Navy Code, I've learned him from the outside. At least, if you're going to lower your VAT, lower your VAT. Cythera is also a paradox. Take the Kythiras out of the first district, put them in Laconia. Don't play with words now. Kythera must go to Laconia, they have nothing to do with Piraeus. It is closest to Crete than to Piraeus. It had once been done by Sophocles Venizelos' wife to exile, because it was also a place of exile. From having 24%, let's go to Laconia, have less. Let's go to the bill now. You brought a bill, Minister, in the middle of the night. So all this had to happen with "SHOE ZONI 2", should we have an oil spill with indiscriminate ecological disasters? In the meantime, I attended Perama yesterday - it was also Mrs Karakosta and Mr Provincial - a speech by the mayor, who belongs to you, who spoke about the casinos of companies, etc., which are a bomb for the settlement. I was surprised, however, to hear about a third pier of 'COSCO' that we do not know where he is from and what he is getting rid of. How did you give permission to make a third pier in there? Those who unload are also toxic, because the boxes are closed and we cannot check whether there are toxics. So we don't know what's gonna happen. The mayor then tried to make them a little nice. I stayed until 12 o'clock, but unfortunately I was unable to speak and Mr Gabriels left. I had to go to another event. Anyway, I would like to ask you this: are the measurements done, Minister? I've applied for you to send me the measurements, or you're the Ministry or the CONTROL. You answered me to take the measurements from the affected municipalities. Finally, only three municipalities have sent me, the Argyrupolis, the Old Faliro and Vari - Buliagmen. They're probably not going to look to you. So I'm going to testify all these measurements. Measurements have been taken since October. They've stayed there. I've asked you six questions, except for the timeline. In fact, when the "news" were taken off, you have taken care, Mr Minister, to call the President of PPEH. CONTROL is an independent authority, why did you call him, in order to confirm these measurements called "News"? I've asked six questions to six ministries, shipping, finance, interior, justice about the file he's gone and the environment. I haven't got any answers from any ministry. The main thing, however, is that I have asked for measurements to be made on the bottom. You haven't done any counting on the bottom for sediment. Oil has been covered in the sand. Count only surface, up to eight or thirty meters deep, but not the bottom, the sediment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u360	Ms. Big Housekeeper...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u361	Give me and I'll...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u362	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u363	Do you have the bottom counts?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u364	Can I interrupt you for a second?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u365	To interrupt me, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u366	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u367	Mrs. Big Economics, you're a MP.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u368	Of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u369	You can't say anything you want. You don't talk in the neighborhood.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u370	What about me?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u371	Have you spoken to the PPE and told you that the investigations have stopped?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u372	So far...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u373	I ask you: have you spoken to Mr Mavrakos and told you that the investigations have stopped?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u374	Can I answer you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u375	This is a serious and delicate debate. So I ask you once again. Did you speak to the PPE and tell you that the investigations have stopped, either on the bottom, or on the water?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u376	Good. Can I answer you now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u377	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u378	I asked you to let me know when the last measurements were made. I think you remember that last week I came in and found the Secretary General of the Ministry in all the mess. The PPEH has arrived, from the three municipalities I took, until October or 2 November. From there on, there are no measurements. Now, if you don't give them publicity or no measurements, that's what I can't know. As for bottom sediments, it is too accurate to measure and has not done the CONTROL or, if it has, it has not been made public. In fact, on the basis of what they sent me, there are not even labels that say that swimming is forbidden. The day before yesterday, coming from my house, I saw people holding bags and taking a bath to Alimos and I went to call 'What are you doing?' Make the municipalities put ‘No bathing’. Why do you forget that? You want to forget it! It's dangerous. Let's go down. As regards the amendment you have brought, you have brought it overnight. Don't tell me that it's an amendment that you brought today. You planned it. From what I lived last night, I realized that you had designed the amendment. Why has 'COSCO' made a third pier without being licensed? Nobody knows. Of course, you are asking us to vote blindly on an amendment that we have not read at all. Why are you bypassing the amendment by the Council of State, which says that for all ports there is a presidential decree on the use of port land and only take us to the ministerial decision? Can you answer me, Minister? You're also saying you're protecting workers in shipping companies. In fact, you're doing well, too, for those who get a subsidy. But you do not ask them for insurance information or tax information, nor if they have public debts. You say that from 70% of the money that the public is entitled to, you keep nothing from them, wishing to pay their employees. Are you serious about wishing? Make a law that says you'll get that money and pay the employees. Not with the wish. What wish? A wish and a curse we give here? We are happy to speak to Parliament? You put in a law and you say you get the subsidy, we give you insurance and tax information, you get 70% of your money and the money goes to the employees. Not with the wish, Minister. I'm stressing it. Why? Because you say 'with the wish'. Since the provision does not in fact oblige undertakings to grant this money exclusively for payroll under Article 3(5). That's what I've been able to read from the amendment you brought in at 12:30, but what am I supposed to do to you? I was working on shipping. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I don't know if I have another time. I have too much to tell you. As for the classification societies, don't take your tail out. The classification societies must be private, but do not fly the ball to private individuals now, the Ministry must be co-responsible. We have not arrived as you said 'LLOYD'S'. ‘LLOYD'S’ is an insurance company. We have not reached the level of having private classifications for overseas ships. You'll check too. Not as you gave "AYIA ZONI 2" two and three renewals through the Ministry. It will be the private classifications, and then you will also take responsibility for signing. So if there's two security folds, I'll see how the ships are going to run without the rules they have to have. I don't think so, because the private classification society will be responsible, but the Ministry will be responsible at the same time. As with towns. Does any engineer get his signature on something that's not right? They're both there. I'm perpendicular. You must have both.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u379	Dear, my dear colleague, please, let us close up to the other colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u380	Also, look, Minister, don't just put Greek officers on the crew. Put it in the lower crew of Greeks, too. Because the waterships have foreign, Pakistanis and Afghans. Find them with the shipowners, give them some incentives, make them less the insurance contributions, because the seamen will no longer be unemployed. NAT was the best fund when you were a secretary, and it became the worst fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u381	I would like to say to my fellow Members - and the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy follows - because we are few and there is a request from everyone and we have come in touch with the Minister - I think there is time for the amendment to be considered - it would be good to finish the debate tonight on the bill. They all have motive. I think we're all agreed. Time will be observed for everyone. We may give a further five minutes for comments on the amendments to any parliamentary representative who wants them. At about 20:30' we will start the vote, which will last about an hour, because it is a big bill. If you agree, let's move on. Thanks for the cooperation. Mr. Cameroon has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u382	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as is used almost every time we have a bill to discuss, some colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of the Staff Regulations, take advantage of this step towards micro-policy, most of the time in matters that are not related to the bill. In this effort, some colleagues from the islands today tabled an amendment to extend the abolition of the reduced rate of VAT on the islands. Mr Metarakis, Mr Consola, Mr Athanasios, I would like to ask you: I agree to vote on this today. You do not know, first of all, that this must be done after approval and consultation and with negotiation with the partners, which you know about. Why then do you want to cause impressions? Secondly, you are trying to lay the burden on the government and to present us as the anals of SYRIZA and ANEL who want to abolish the reduced VAT rates on the islands, while you are the defenders who have not voted for it. What are you telling us? What did we vote in 2015 when we passed the whole law on the measures that were imposed on us? Was it not the abolition of the reduced rate of VAT? In fact, the government tried and did it in three stages and three phases, in three classes of islands, while the demand for lenders was to be one and the outside. And you voted for that, too. Why do you want to forget about this? You're doing a micropolicy? Do you do populism, yes or no? Of course, the letter you lodged, Mr Mitsarakis, on the presumption that SYRIZA, it is the Government that abolishes the reduced rates, does the opposite. I do not know whether it is the same as the letter that I have from Mr Juncker, who answers whether or not he has applied for. Of course, this is done through negotiation procedures and it is not done by a simple letter of request. However, the letter by Mr Yunker, which I have written on the following: 'The reduced rates of VAT have entered the programme and the Greek Government has committed itself to this because they create unnecessary distortions and administrative costs'. This is the European Union's view of reduced VAT rates. While accepting that there is a problem and specific needs and difficulties, it states: ‘The reduced rates of VAT are not the most effective or targeted ways of dealing with these problems’. So you see that if something comes out of this letter, it is the collapse of your argument, which you have long said that the abolition of the reduced rates has been requested and imposed by SYRIZA. Of course, we know that negotiations are taking place. And we're pressing, and we all want it. And the President said so before. A whole study was documented. I noticed. He's not just the President. Chambers have done entire studies. We know the pressures being put on us so that we can maintain the reduced rate. At the same time - and it is even more serious than that - we are working with cowardice and even taking steps so far - and far more seriously than we are doing here - we are trying to remove these inequality created by islands. This is the most effective way of dealing with any consequences: by tax, by improving the coastline, by improving the health sector, by improving the education sector, improving services etc. But I must also mention the bill, much more because we have tabled some amendments. I'll be very brief to try and be in time. Two amendments were tabled. The one, which we sign with Mr Diaras, will develop itself. I would like to refer to Article 96, as the bill was now tabled, because it was already 97, which refers to the constructions in the port areas. I repeat that this is not a legalization of the constructions. Because many are criticising this in view of the fact that it is about legalisation. It is a suspension of the imposition of all measures, demolition, imposition of fines, administrative sanctions or other legal penalties, in order to allow operators supervising the port areas and individuals who have made these constructions, to give them the opportunity to adapt them to studies in such a way that these areas are dispersed. In other words, this article and the amendment making improvements to the fines that are suspended, because they were not originally included, goes on to put a order in these areas. I conclude, Mr President, with another article and another provision which makes the bill which we are going to vote on today, with regard to the possibility of small islands, that small towns may make contracts for ships mainly involving local lines and we know how important it is for our islands. I am very pleased that the Minister has received an improvement, because it was expressed that this could be done in municipalities of less than five thousand inhabitants, not including islands that are under five thousand inhabitants, but belong to larger municipalities. With an improvement, I think we will be given the opportunity. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm done, Mr. President. And to such small islands, which belong to large municipalities, such as the like, we have in Kalymnos, which has Psrimo and Telendos, Corfu, which has the prosperous islands, we are giving them the opportunity to conclude these agreements too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u383	Thank you very much, Mr Kamaterre. I would ask the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy Mr. Kefaliannis to come to Step for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u384	Thank you, Mr President. I, too, shall refer to the amendments with a slight tolerance. I won't expand too much. Minister, I will start with something that I am not used to in this Chamber, but by listening to your speech, after you have spent about half of your time wondering whether SYRIZA was ruling over all these years, and in fact it was PASOK and the New Democracy, I would like to remind you of something, because everyone really has his way to this Chamber. I read from your official CV: In 1993 with 1996 you were Secretary General of Welfare at the Ministry of Health at PASOK. In 1996 to 2004, for eight years, PASOK Member. In 2009 with 2011 PASOK Member. In 2010, as a member of the PASOK Parliamentary Group, you voted for the first memorandum. You differentiated yourself then. You went to SYRIZA again where you differentiated yourself and voted for the third memorandum. I mention this because despite my personal appreciation on your face and you know it, you are unfair to yourself. Because after twenty-five years you have been in public life, today you have only remembered and discovered that there is a useful bill. You are wrong with yourself, I repeat, because you are in fact saying that the rest of the twenty-five years of your public life did not find any useful bills in this area with regard to island policy and shipping and a route is being cancelled in general. So, in this Chamber, we should all be a little modest, acknowledging our mistakes, not canceling everything, not throwing everything down, saying that some of the previous years have been done, and beyond that, we really have to move forward. Ladies and gentlemen, Isocrates advised the leaders of his time not to rush to gain political allies, but when they decide to acquire them, they must try and stay with them. I don't know if the Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras, knows this advice of the Isocrates. He's probably ignoring her by reading his left readings. However, I am sure that she is aware of her value, even with a delay of seventeen days, Mr. Tsipras has finally decided to take a position in this prevalent case of selling military material from Greece to Saudi Arabia and as a good friend and political partner of Mr. Panos Kammenos, to postpone the timely question of the New Democracy, in order for him to attend and be placed. Mr President, I myself, through the Bureau, on behalf of the New Democracy, also complained, because today the postponement of the debate on the topical and urgent question was known. In fact, when the Prime Minister's journey, which is now in Paris, I think that when the postponement took place last Monday, could be set at another date. Really, I wonder what's changed? Was it the suffocating pressures of his partner, so he could attend to provide a cover? Of course, the merry of his award for displaying courage and commitment to European ideals is another matter. We can also see it as a stepping-up to the internationalisation of political practice, known as an asshole, according to them, who are today awarding the Prime Minister, with which the SYRIZA and Independent Greek Government has taken a prominent position in the history of diplomatic relations. I hope, however, that Mr Tsipras will find a little time in his speech on European ideals and explain to fellow lawyers from France that, since the beginning of the proud negotiation at the beginning of 2015, he will reach the demonstration of political courage in the summer of that year, this has cost the Greeks 14 billion unnecessarily additional measures, a new recapitalisation of the banks, ninety years of hypothesis of the Greek wealth, as well as a third and fourth unnecessary memorandum. Overall, this is about 100 billion directly and indirectly for the Greek economy. Indeed, it takes huge political courage from the Greeks to bear such a burden. To come back, however, Mr Tsipras, of course, is welcome to the debate next Monday. We will expect with great interest not only to apologise but also to share semantic and political responsibility and any criminal side effects that will arise from this dark case. But we must warn that in democracy, even the way in which we defend our positions and our political friends, it has certain limits. I hope that the Prime Minister will not fall into the error of Mr Kotzias, who, with legal acronyms and inventions, is trying to cover Mr Kammens's actions and omissions, threatening the opposition and the media with imprisonment and warning that he will activate Article 146 of the Criminal Code on espionage. In fact, I would like to hear from colleagues on the left their views on these threats of imprisonment by fellow Members and members of the media. I assume that for the first person, whom Mr Kotzias will ask for Rule 146 to be activated, he will be Mr Panos Kammenos, because, if I am not mistaken, is it not Mr Panos Kammenos who made available the confidential document of the so-called transnational agreement about twenty days ago? I also don't remember either Mr. Kotzias nor Mr. Tsipras nor anyone else, of course, colleague of today's Co-Policy and then of Opposing to show the same sensitivity when in 2014 Mr. Panos Kammenos from the Step of the House played a classified document of the Bank of Greece with all the archives of the Credit System Department, causing, in fact, the then Minister of Justice to ask for his prosecution. Instead of depositing himself with his silence, Mr. Kotzias should have been the first to ask for explanations from Mr. Kammens about the lawfulness of his operations, which he has put forward diplomatically. He had to explain to the Greek people if an transnational agreement has actually been signed between the two countries. He also had to explain whether our country, represented by Mr Kotzias abroad, signed with the mediator of the choice of Panos Kammenos, who was not a proxy of Saudi Arabia. With regard to the invoicing of the Greek Ambassador's documents in Riyadh reveals nothing more than the government's embarrassment about how to handle the file on the sale of defence material in Saudi Arabia. I really ask fellow Members: does the ambassador of Greece not repeat in his telegram what he has already said on a simple mail from the Greek consul to Riyadh that Saudi soldiers have declared their total ignorance of Mr Papadopoulos' activity and have expressed the desire for talks to take place between governments? However - to close this - Mr Kotzias should have been aware, since he decided to deal with the Criminal Code - he obviously does not know - that the victim of criminals is also a criminal offence. Finally, a comment on the Bureau's decision to ban Members' access to documents submitted by Mr Lovers. I would like to address the Members who participated in the Committee on Transatlantic Trade Agreements. Ladies and gentlemen, was there not a Chamber in this House, which was set up in a reading room where we went and studied the contents of documents relating to transatlantic agreements? Didn't many of you participate in committees of inquiry or pre-review, and have you received a record of secrets or classified documents far more serious than what Mr. Loverdes has said? And I ask: has anything leaked over the years? Let this hypocrisy stop now. The bill: The Ministry's political leadership has mentioned the need to formulate a national policy, which is supposed to serve this bill. I understand, of course, that the government, after three years and a mere example of writing in the maritime sector, must communicate a narrative. National maritime policy, however, in the planning of which the directly concerned are absent, i.e. the shipowners, I have first heard. I would like to mention one example: you are bringing in, Mr President-in-Office, provisions to strengthen social participation in maritime shipping. Have you discussed this with the shipowners' side? Is the municipalities able to support up to five thousand inhabitants or the development companies of the ATTs? A national maritime policy of a development nature for our country today presupposes that it will be able to meet the two challenges sufficiently, firstly, the growing internationalisation of trade, namely the growing demand for maritime transport - and, therefore, the development of competitive ports in the eastern Mediterranean - and, secondly, the development of all maritime forms of tourism, that is, both cruise and yachting. For the first, unfortunately, we've seen little things. With the thousands I shall say the further privatization of the PPA. Unfortunately, we have not seen any strategy for the further use of the large ports until investment is attracted. We have seen no policy on the inability to finance existing port projects, which is largely dependent on the Public Investment Programme. We have seen nothing about the restructuring of the institutional framework for the operation of ports. And I come to the second point, the development of maritime tourism. Unfortunately, Minister, the evidence speaks for themselves for the cruise. The reduction in the number of cruise ships attracted by Greek ports is 24%. The reduction in visitors is around 16.3%, which is translated into eight hundred and fifty thousand less visitors. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] I come to the marine tourism that deals with the bill. What is needed, Minister, by yachting, to strengthen its dynamics and contribute to the development of the Greek economy? It takes four things: firstly, to complete the competitive process by the ICT to grant private marbles of strategic importance. Secondly, to modernise the spatial framework and the land use framework, in order to maximise the synergies between marinas and adjacent property. Thirdly, to simplify the procedure for obtaining a Greek flag vessel and thus support the Greek register. And fourthly, create an electronic register of professional pleasure boats along with an electronic fare of pact and ticket. I ask you: which of the above is this bill facing? Unfortunately, none. What's he doing, on the contrary? It imposes, in fact, traffic charges for pleasure boats - private and professional - in a way which is borne by smaller vessels. Does this tax policy support marine tourism? I think it supports him as much as to paraphrase Lenin, 'the hanged rope'. As far as the amendment from the Ministry of Interior is concerned, what are you doing with this amendment? You are amending an article of a law which you themselves voted on here in July, that is, just three months ago. I think it is obvious how you legislate is handy, without any concrete action being taken, so that these mistakes can be corrected. What were we telling you last summer? We told you that if you really knew the needs of the municipalities, if you recognized how they really work and what positions and with what qualifications, then you could follow a rational recruitment plan and really help the municipalities to meet their needs. It is evident, however, that it is completely unknown how many people are concerned with these provisions. It is a detail that empty organic positions are minimal. Unfortunately, it is a detail for you that many of these people are not qualified for the work they are called upon to accomplish. Of course, it is a detail that we do not know how much these recruitments will cost. As a result of this sluggishness and lack of design, you bring the layout by which they may be appointed from the tables of the IAS. On the amendment tabled by the SYRIZA Members concerning the PPA, I will say it, ladies and gentlemen, as clearly as possible. You are trying to recruit through the PPA, that is to say, a private company that is now more successful than previous PPA competitions, whose validity has expired, even creating personal positions and binding empty Agency's organic positions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u385	Let's finish, Mr. Colleague, because we have to finish tonight.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u386	We said to talk about the amendments, so at least I have the tolerance for two minutes. But the most evil you do is that you give the possibility of moving to another service in the event that this organic position is requested by the Agency to be covered. That's unprecedented. In the amendment tabled by my colleague Mr Lazaridis of the Independent Greeks - in conjunction with Rule 86 of the Rules of Procedure, of course - it is proposed that there should be no compensation in cases of arbitrary construction of port projects. With the amendment which he tabled - and it is good to hear from the Minister whether he will accept it - he effectively cancels the provisions of Article 86(3). This is where I want to ask the following question. Does the government, but also the fellow Member, think that when Greek citizens pay administrative fines for arbitrary constructions, for example, to come the Greek state and say that for the constructions which were arbitrarily made by its operators, they will not pay fines? Because I see colleagues with an ecological conscience in here, do you agree with this provision? I am indeed thinking of a minister of the present government, who during his term of office as mayor built and used port projects illegally. Do you, Minister, in this provision cancel the fines that the Municipality of Sfakion had to pay for their legality? At least let you have the political courage to say that by this provision you want to acquit Mr Polakis, who was first sentenced ten months for arbitrary construction of a thirty-mile pier over a measure of width and two-mile height. In addition, Mr Lazaridis' explanatory statement states that there is no question of fines already paid, because any repayment would mean deprivation of public revenue. And I ask: does this result from the draft law, namely that those who have already paid the fines will not look back for the money they have paid? So what does that mean? That those who paid a fine for arbitrary use will be able to claim back the money they paid. There is this topical point, ladies and gentlemen. In the amendment tabled by Mr Lazarides, that is to say, in the case of the 11th paragraph, it adds, in fact, that it legalises a number of port projects regardless of - take care - of the construction operator. A private person, in other words, who has unlawfully built a marina, a pier, whether it is a hotel or a residence, is here today and you legalize it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u387	Where does he say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u388	Read it, it is the amendment tabled by Mr Lazarides. Therefore, the'regardless of' means private projects. I shall conclude with two amendments. One has a general number of 1358 and a special number 27. Minister, I need to comment on the fact that this is actually a new bill within the bill. It is a hundred and fourteen pages, which we do well not have time to read and comment on. Also, the amendment with a general number of 1361 and a specialist 30 was tabled just an hour ago, and unfortunately it proves once again - without going into the essence of it - that the current government is legislating. I shall end with the reference to the New Democracy amendment. We are actually proposing to extend the reduced VAT scheme for at least one year. I think it is hypocrisy to hear from here, from the Stepping of the House, colleagues, saying 'whoever tables this amendment is populating or doing it with micro-political purposes'. Unfortunately, the islanders know very well who kept the reduced VAT, who resisted the then pressures of the troika, and who were they actually abrogated. I've heard the original, and I'm closing up with it, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u389	You've got a long time to close, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u390	Last sentence, Mr President. I have heard the original that we must consult with our partners in order to get through this. But I have not heard anything like that, and sometimes, when you come here and go, for example, last year with the social dividend, you said that it was your own act without consulting the social partners. So decide whether these provisions need to be agreed with the troika, whether we have to go through them on our own, whether we have to have an agreement and not have bilingualism when in one case and when in another. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u391	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u392	Mr President, can I make a clarification?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u393	Here you go, Mr. Dritsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u394	Thank you, Mr President. In the first sentence of my speech I made clear on the amendment we have tabled with other colleagues, because today on a front page of the morning newspaper there was a misunderstanding, which I think the newspaper already understood. Already the New Democracy Press Office, the protothema.gr site, started yelling again now, and the explanations have been given. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative has come to say the same thing. Is it ever possible to table an amendment that the House of Commissioners will appoint a private company, such as the PPA at the moment? The explanatory statement to the amendment actually clarifies that it refers to beneficiaries who have obtained CSCE examinations at the time, who have validated a right, at which time they have declared their preference. Then the PPA was not privatised and they were left with all the money. All the rest of the same class were placed as the law defines and as the whole program was. So those who stayed won't go to the PPA. Other services will go, but they were the beneficiaries who had declared the PPA at the time. That's all.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u395	All right, Mr. Dritsa. We get it. Here, Mr Deiaras, you have the floor with strict observance of time, please. Because we have found this patent 'complete' and 'finish' and twice the time goes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u396	Thank you, Mr President. I'll try to be in time, though. Ladies and gentlemen, my intervention concerns two articles of the bill relating to environmental and aesthetic issues of coastal towns. The first is Article 96, ex 97(1). As we all know, the coastal areas on the islands and coastal towns, which are close to the ports and are usually exposed to large lengths and backs, belong to the so-called 'land zone of port'. On these lands, where there are generally beach shops, shoppers have usually built arbitrary structures with permanent features to protect from sun or air and rain. These structures, which are in areas owned by port administration and operation bodies, as we have said, are, as a rule, arbitrary. Apart from the economic issues of non-performance of rents in the State, i.e. in port agencies, etc., they create other problems, first of all, in the traffic of pedestrians and people with disabilities, secondly, in the aesthetic appearance of the coastal sections of the islands and coastal towns. Many times we have not understood and we think that these areas are in the municipalities. For example, the beach of Loutrakios, where these shops have made these constructions, does not belong to the municipality. It belongs to the Port Fund. Thus, each shopkeeper clippingly, with all he wanted, constructed these structures without rules that harmonize them in the environment. Article 96 of the draft law sets one order and defines a procedure for moving to normality. There is a one-year period to prepare studies on the implementation of new constructions following an opinion of the Architecture Board. That's right. The draft law, however, states that the opinion of the Architectural Board is presumed to be given three months after the date of receipt of the studies. What does that mean? That, if the architecture board fails, these studies will have no architectural control. The question is, then, what will happen in this case that the architectural board does not give its opinion in the quarter? As, unfortunately, there is a great deal of experience in our country, and as the paragraph says, studies and constructions will proceed without any control, i.e. without the agreement of the Architecture Board. That's probably a rule. The window of the islands and coastal towns will not be controlled by an architectural board. That is a matter and that is why I am intervening. That is why I have tabled a technical improvement so that within three months of the receipt of the studies, the respective Architecture Board has an obligation to give an opinion. We need to remove the phrase'remove given', because we will find a loophole not to control these constructions at all. In addition, we have tabled an amendment to Article 96, which proposes the following change: it refers to the article 'to prepare studies to carry out new uniform constructions'. To be uniform is not enough because in uniform structures there may be malicious works and they may be made with materials that are unauthorized. Besides, aesthetics and uniformity are not directly proportional. We therefore propose abolishing the phrase 'new uniform structures' and setting out certain criteria: firstly, harmonious integration into the natural and structured environment, both in terms of design and the materials used. Secondly, it ensures easy access for pedestrians and young people who already have a problem in these cases. Thirdly, ensuring conditions for bioclimatic behaviour. Bioclimatic behaviour must now be a norm for each building and for any construction where people live or work or entertain. Climate change now requires changes in our way of life and in the way we plan and build the buildings. Thank you, Minister, for accepting this amendment. I think it really improves a weak point of the bill. After the two years any construction is not regulated by the provisions of the law, it will be demolished. This is very important, because the time is given to go through a situation where these constructions or will come back with data and criteria that we have set or will be demolished. In other words, this bill does not legitimize such arbitrary practices. All of this will be in relation to the law that we have voted on for the structured environment and the rules of this law that applies. The care for the environmental and aesthetic upgrading of the islands also offers economic benefits, since our country is a tourist country. That is not only the aesthetic dimension but also the economic dimension. Also, in Article 105, the old 106 I call for two changes: In essence, one proposes compliance with local, national, Union and international environmental requirements. I propose adding the words ‘including the requirements of Law 2939/2001, as amended by the recent Act of 4496/2017’. Here too, as far as these issues are concerned, the law on alternative waste management, recycling, the law on proper waste management should apply. The corresponding and paragraph 29 of Article 105. Thank you, Mr President. I was accurate in my time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u397	And we're about to keep time. Mr Kurublis has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u398	Mr President, I would like to state clearly that these very few - measured on the fingers of a hand, I think - were recruited by old invitations not to do so. I categorically say that. They'll be placed in public.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u399	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, eighteen students and students and three educational attendants from the Giannadon Corfu Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Michelovannakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u400	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, the bill, which will shortly become a law, provides for a full system of education, certification and competence for port inspectors and auditors, for recognised organisations, for the safety of port facilities and port state inspectors. The School of Inspectors is being established. We have provisions for personal radiopharmaceuticals, risk position indication and PLP holder record. We have a system of transfers, abstractions and transfers by law and not by presidential decrees. We have a management evaluation system. We also arrange for disciplinary law, all this disciplinary framework that so far has not existed. The branches of this House, the leadership, the Final Planning Council, the Force Structure and supplies are being put into a program. We now introduce and train young people in productive schools through the pan-Hellenic examinations. We have a programme contract between the Ministry and the islands with a population of less than five thousand for their maritime connection. Social participation in the coastline shall be strengthened. Clearly, there is protection now for the workers. Clearly there is a modern model of maritime administration and the ranking of civilian personnel with both adequacy and know-how. There are arrangements in recreational ships, in logs, in port facilities, in municipal port funds, in the register of tourist ships and small vessels and in the provision of port services for the reception and management of waste. We are afreshing the scope of the classifications. We reduce the age limit of tankers for rock and binding ship obligations to make their position known in writing at least 12 hours before rock. The Council of the Merchant Navy and the Council of Passenger Islands enters. In other words, the plan is not only expensive, but from that we will certainly save costs and generate revenue. The vessels we're about to buy will be built in Greek shipyards. Until now, barren lines have served shipowners. They will now serve society. The link between Alexandroupolis and the northern Aegean, Patras and Ithaca, the islands of Oinousses with neighbouring ports is made. So far no port could enter European programmes because they were all arbitrary. The International Compensation Fund gives 51 million to all those who have suffered damage, something important by the government. The International Maritime Group and the Norwegian-based international body and experts, as well as the International Compensation Fund, say that we have done very well on the issue of pollution. It was a long time ago - and we all know it - smuggling there the Port Corps and customs did not control the stigma. We finally take care of the famous supermarkets. Finally, we lay foundations in the shipwreck.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u401	Thank you, too. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA Mr. Nikos Xydakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u402	Thank you very much, Mr President. The bill introduced by the Minister for Maritime Affairs, which is massive, with many regulations and in many detail and obviously a product of a long-term process and also a long-term consultation, with all the volume that it is trying to carry out, I think it shows the measure of political will. I think that if I chose a phrase to characterise this legislative effort, it would be a hard attempt to make transparency in many areas. We are talking about transparency in the way the port of Piraeus is awarded a great deal of work and in other ports, transparency in the way supplies and maintenance contracts are carried out, which the Minister himself has talked about, and transparency in the way licences are granted for airworthiness and the way in which such companies are controlled, transparency in how the classification societies operate and judge the airworthiness. I think that's not a little bit. In a political debate that takes place during the years of crisis and bankruptcy as to how much opacity and the many rams, the many cracks in the public system have allowed corruption and how much this corruption and opacity have contributed to the great historical adventure that the Greek people are going through, I believe that this political effort made by the government in many respects of the legislative work is what will remain. Transparency and rationalisation of administration and the great effort being made for social justice, for alleviating our weak strata and our affected fellow people, I think it is the mark of a left democratic intervention in the years of the crisis, in a very narrow margin. I would like to stay a little in Article 106, namely Article 105, by renumbering, which regulates in an extremely simple, transparent and democratic manner, with respect for both the public and the rules of a healthy free market and a healthy free competition, the transport and treatment of waste and cargo residues. This field is a large industry with a great deal of money and extremely important for the environment and for public health, but also for the economy, that is, for the economic benefits that a port produces. The law, the provision by which it is imported, minimises and eliminates the open possibilities for oligopolistic and monopolistic situations and opens this market to all those who have the technical capabilities and the economic surface to do this work properly. I think that any serious and honest supporter of a transparent functioning of the market will vote in favour of both the specific provision and the spirit of the entire bill. Otherwise, here we are and are judged in the presence of the Greek people and in the face of the factors of shipping that know both persons and mechanisms. As far as transparency is concerned, colleagues from the major and minor opposition are again returning to transparency in the issue of failure to do so until the time when we are talking about the sale of missiles in Saudi Arabia by Greece. I think that the government's overall position on this issue is 'Everything in light', 'Transparency'. I think, indeed, that so far the Ministry of National Defence has been given full information. From January to September, in September, the Minister presented himself, giving explanations, documentation and reasoning, and he also brought the officials. In the debate that took place last January, all parties were positive and agreed on what had been put forward to them. The present JRC also voted. Last September the Minister came back when the whole process was involved, and he gave an explanation again. My fellow Members who have experience and are involved in the armaments committee are aware of this. It's all recorded in the Minutes. So I have some impression of passion, surprise and little of the dramatic tone with which they return and raise an issue to which all the explanations have been given. It is also open for the government to re-explain what has happened, how this transnational agreement has evolved and whether it has not been successful. We are politicians and we know that developments in Saudi Arabia are very, very fast and in a way that we cannot see, since they are not in our political tradition. There is another power structure in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and another structure in the Hellenic Republic. Let us not compare unparalleled situations. It's on a very big political contempt. Things change. They change the feuds and families that are enthusiastic about power. It is possible from summer onwards that we have had the underground developments and now the very obvious, that has also affected the course of this agreement. But let's not rush. On Monday, the Minister of National Defence and all the political leadership of the Ministry and the Prime Minister himself will be here, in this Chamber, to have a political debate. The government has nothing to hide. The debate is already taking place and will take place in the most institutional and serious way on Monday. The rest, by showing the mechanisms and documents distributed to the press, I think it is to create impressions and to provoke opposition vigour, which, on little political terms, also serves the debate that is taking place in Parliament and in general, the most serious, the most intended debate throughout society. Finally, I would like to make one final point about someone who has also been heard by the Officerial Representation spokesman, that we do not know people and things. Look, even the mediator, who intervened as a representative of the Saudi government, is known to the Greek political system. Other ministers to other governments also discussed with him and sought agreements and work. Let us not all be innocent, and much more so when what we are discussing today has been discussed in detail. One final comment to make on the bill. As a descendant of the islands, I have the impression, from what I have been doing and other colleagues have said here, that we have, for the first time, arrangements for the island population. We have provision for the islands of small islands, which are cut off and unjustly paid too often by the state of Athens and ignored. We also have for the first time with the present government, from 2015 onwards, a constant concern for all sectors. I'm not putting the burden on the money that went in with the VAT. But in all the other sectors, in the infrastructure sectors, in the water, in the long-term survival projects, we have a lot of serious work. I think that those who have their origins from the archipelago, where the soul of modern Greece strikes, and those who have passed through the islands, will be able to understand some critical differences in the area of infrastructure and welfare in order to live the archipelago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u403	Thank you, too. Mr Nektarios Santorinios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u404	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to begin with the issue of VAT on the islands and the amendment tabled by the Members of the New Democracy, who are, of course, missing, but no matter what, they will listen to it, I imagine. I would say that they tabled an amendment to create a nice press release and say that 'we fought for islands'. Besides, it was the only measure of islandity they knew for so many years. But they should probably give us a reply to Mr.4336 that was intended to abolish - Mr.Wyrmulene said so - whether or not they voted for him, because all four signatories have voted for it to stop hypocrisy. They must respond to us - and the truth is that on page 27, point 5 of the e-mail Hardouvelis, which was the government's proposal at that time, it was not an institutional agreement - if the abolition of the special VAT rates on the islands were to be included. Not to say that we want in here and not to remember the islandity and Article 101 of the constitution a card. Because all they had done was that. I want to remind you of a few things that we did for the islands. Armors: They go and run rural medical services. Military doctors go and run farm medical services, with a bill of our own government. The molecules of doctors, who go to the barren areas, have doubled. Agricultural doctors are funded in some of the health centres on the barren line. We brought the special development programme for the northern and southern Aegean. Today, 15.5m euros were announced in the northern and southern Aegean. Can they tell us what they had done to fund infrastructures for so many years on the islands where the islands were the pigs? What were the infrastructure we had on the islands? And tell us about the water on the islands, about Amorgos, about the Leipzigs, about Kimolo. What were they doing over there? Unfortunately, we still have not succeeded, but we hope in 2018 that we will succeed, that the aqueduct will stop going. In 2013 they bought a desalination in Kimolo and one in the Leipzigs, but they left it there. Now we're setting her up. They just bought it. Is that the concept of islandity understood by colleagues from the New Democracy and PASOK? To finally understand what islands mean! All of the last three years agree that the connection of the islands has improved. Whether they like it or not, the routes have changed and the island is really taking flesh and bone. This should be answered by the New Democracy colleagues who have tabled this proposal. And speaking of islands, and within this bill we are talking about islands. Programming contracts, Article 76, are not state-owned. What do you say? That municipalities and municipal units - and here also enter the adjacent islands, the small Cyclades - can have a ship with which they will test how to interconnect. He said Mr. Placiotakis that we would give them money from the barren lines. Why now the money from the barren lines where they're going? In profitable business? Most companies, Mr. Placiotakis, you know, are in banks. Why are shipping banks? Because they owe them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u405	What do you want? You want to go bankrupt the municipalities?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u406	Are you serious now? You told me about the Kalymnos ANEK, which serves Pserimos, Agathonisi, the Arquis. You told me there were some complaints about a mayor's mismanagement. Well done. Does it help? Is he solved problems on the barren line? It's done. And from there on, we are also doing the Passenger Transport Council. Why? Why are we doing this? Because we have found that planes and coastline are not connected. People leave Kasso to go to Karpathos to take the plane and need another day to stay in Karpathos. The same goes for Leipzig and Lero, where there is an airport. Same from Kimolo in Milos. The same from the Furnus and Ikaria in Samos. That's the problem. Once we have to connect these instruments so that people can travel as quickly as possible. And we also legalise port facilities. You are right, Mr Dannelly, and that is why we are bringing improvements in legislation. And what do we say in the legislative improvement? We say that there will be a land zone in the port, and when the sea zone is determined, then the sea zone will have to be adapted. I think that's what you said. And what's going on over there? For example, we have a port in Kimolo that's damaged. This port, if built, will reduce the distance of Milos - Kimolos by 2/3. Is that not going to help the islands? Because it's not just VAT that helps development. And we now have the big business issue on our islands. What can we do? They're tourists, our islands. They need the skewers and pergoles. So no one had to deal with this. I agree with a lot of what Mr Dimitras said, but once we have to finish this. This problem needs to be settled. It must be possible for businesses in Naxos, Kalymnos, Kefalonia, but even in Loutraki to have a place for the customer to enjoy their coffee, the tourist - since we are talking about tourist development - without being under the liquor. And since we are also the Ministry of the Port, let me tell you this: the porters, especially the porters on our islands - which, by 40%, were subordinated when we received them, were we not, Mr Dritsa? It was 40% understaffed in the islands. You are so much cut off, gentlemen, for the Port Corps on the islands - even for a pregnancy leave you had to come to Athens. And what do we say? The simple one. To be able to take services from the Agency so that they can cover insurance, be covered for their medicines. These people aren't covered right now. Is it so hard? Aren't these island actions? And one last thing - it may be small - for the islands: to be able by fixed-term contracts, but through APA, port funds hire people to be able to collect compensation from the marinas, for example, in return from ports. And you know where this came from? Because there are municipal marinas in Corfu, Benitses and Palaiokastritsa, which the municipality could not operate because it had no staff. And now we're going to the port issues. I have here a statement from the Pan-Hellenic Federation of Personal Port Authoritys, "Piraeus 2-3-2017". It agrees almost with what is included in the bill. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of State, Mr Nektarios Santorinios, presents for the minutes the communication referred to above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Because this bill strengthens full transparency. There is no change in staff unless there is a collective decision by a body. The Minister shall only ratify the decisions of the Transition Council. The transfer criteria are in formal law rather than changing the presidential decree at night what goes down and what suits us. So the transfer criteria must be changed by the next Minister to come to Parliament and say: 'I change the transfer criteria for this and that is why'. Is this not too important to say that we are really democratising the way in which the transfers are made to this House? Changes that came out, though, never happened. I'm going to the pan-Hellenics, too. You tell us that we do not have a curriculum, we do not have an organizational chart, what you are doing, is to regulate incompletely. Honestly, are we going to put the curriculum into the law? And every time we have to change a lesson, we have to bring in and change the law or the organogram? What are you talking about? Do you hear what you're saying? Honestly! And because many issues have been raised for the ship control sector too, I think most of them have been said, it has also been said about the end of ships. In 2013, when you voted on this famous ship fee, Mr Varvitsiotis said, among other things: "We are critical of this end that it is cheap, that it is "hadi", that it is a favorable arrangement for scavengers and so on." So the 'hadi', for seven to eight metres, said 300 euros. How much is our arrangement foreseen? It is foreseen that EUR 192. For eight to ten meters, 300 euros. How many are foreseen in our own regulations? Provision is made for EUR 300. For the 10 to 12 metres, 400 euros were provided for in your own rules. How much is ours predicted? The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u407	Is it applied?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u408	Wait a minute, let's get this over with. For more than 12 years it was 12 euros per measure. Our arrangement is eight. You're saying it didn't apply. Did you ever make fun of society? Do you vote for laws not to apply them? Is this your tactic? Is that your opinion of good law-making? Are you bringing laws that you don't want to apply? You've been revealed. So you have brought a law - and I am tabling it on the Minutes - so that you do not apply it. Congratulations! That's how you teach lessons of good legacy. Very good. Your good legacy is very good. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Maritime Affairs and Islands Policy, Mr Nektarios Santorinios, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practices.]] And because a lot has been heard about "AYIA ZONI 2" and you say that there has been an opportunity, etc., I submit the latest measurements of "AYIA ZONI 2" throughout the sea of Saronic. Everything's clean. And in the open Saronic. It's all clear. There's Salamis left.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u409	So we're taking a bath?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u410	The Department of Health will answer you. I won't answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u411	Please! Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u412	Wait. I shall conclude, Mr President. Yesterday the work on the Athenian Riviera was completed. In half of Salamis the work has been completed and will be completed by next week in the rest of Salamis. I wanted to know in corresponding cases how long the depollution was doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u413	He didn't do that kind of pollution on land.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u414	Let it go, much bigger. "Alpha 1" was much bigger, Mr. Placiotakis. Don't give up on that. Most importantly, Mr. Placiotakis, do you know what it is? The crane is heading towards the shipwreck. In a few days it'll be up. Will you tell us how many shipwrecks you raised your governments? Never. So we face the environment, so we respect the environment. And not leave environmental bombs at sea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u415	Thank you, too. Mr. Marios Katsis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u416	Thank you, Mr President. By catching the thread from the dear State Secretary for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Mr Santorini, we must all admit in this Chamber that it is a bold draft law that we are discussing. It is a draft law which makes areas, imposes institutions which help both transparency and, more generally, the formation of a completely different culture from the one built in the previous years in this Ministry. I would like, on this occasion, to refer to some of the points in the draft law, which, from the debate in the committees, seemed to have a broad consensus. And how not to have a broad consensus, as much of the issues it solves, many of the issues that this bill deals with are chronic problems and even solves them by creating these areas, which I have said, in the direction of transparency and modernisation of shipping and island policy. That's why they deserve our attention. For example, entering the Port Corps, in the Greek Coast Guard with full-fledged examinations, is it not a matter of transparency? It's a matter of transparency. Isn't that a matter of dignity? Obviously, it is because a system of personnel selection is determined on the basis of concrete and improper criteria. This reform, as we all understand in this Chamber, is very important, as this practice has also been followed by the Greek Police in the past, but also recently with our own government in the Fire Corps, and as a result these reforms have shown that in addition to transparency in the selection it is guaranteed in this way and the qualitative upgrading of the security forces that have major successes in these years. A second point is the transfer and secondment. It is being established, the Deputy Minister said earlier, a new regulation, which obviously aims to be more respected by stepping on objective, social and service criteria, as such a regulation must be. These criteria are now standardized, they become law. And why are they making laws? They shall be amended in order to avoid any changes made to them by means of parallel presidential decrees, which, if not otherwise, could be made to the interpretation of Parliament, in the absence of the National Representation. We know very well that these things that have so far been the case and to this day, as we call them, have brought an unjust treatment even to officials of the same order. Otherwise, a port guard, who had a barbas in Koroni, was treated differently, otherwise another port guard, who was trying to go with the transfer regulation, based on the criteria. Evidently, therefore, the civilian staff had left open windows to reproduce the customer state. With the new institutional framework, we are now finally leaving this vicious past behind. Also important are the changes made to solve the problems of workers who have been exploited by shipowners. The protection of the labour rights of the crew of the vessels of the coastline shall be established. And I'm explaining. Article 78 provides, essentially, that before the start of the service shipowners must have paid the basic wages and crew allowances. If the port authority receives complaints concerning unpaid employment, then in cooperation with the Maritime Labour Directorate, the Ship Inspection Directorate and the Ships and Port Installations Control and Safety Directorate shall initially issue a 15-day period for compliance and in the event of non-compliance with the legislation, it shall impose a departure ban, which shall be lifted only in the event of payment of the dues. It is, then, a piece of legislation. The government dares! It shows, in practice, that we are adjacent to the interests of the workers, but also to the coastline and against the logistics they want to speculate on the workers' back. The attitude of the opposition parties in Article 78, in my opinion, will be indicative of who they are defending and of whom the interests are expressing. Finally, as most of them have been heard, I would also like to refer to an important intervention which attempts to solve the problems of local communities, which we in Thesprotia, in my own constituency, are well aware of, as the government in the recent past by an oral Prime Minister - and there have been moves too intensively in this direction - it was promised that land ports will be granted to local municipalities and citizens by extension. In the course of the process, however, it can be seen that years of inertia and spiral policies without a plan have created many, complex and unresolved problems, such as land zones without a management body, land and port zones without a clear demarcation, but also buildings of the public within ports which are arbitrary or irregular. For this reason, this draft law solves such issues of time that were buried under the carpet and thus paves the way for the rendering of land zones to local municipalities, such as Igoumenitsa, Patras and elsewhere. With regard to the terrestrial zone, a number of articles which clearly place the terrestrial areas of the port installations and regulate the issue of the authorisation and implementation of the projects, the authorisation and implementation of the projects shall be effected by way of derogation from any provision, provided that the use of the areas is carried out by an IFO or prior performance of use in IFOs by means of a law or concession. Secondly, the issue of the legality of port installations that have not been legally executed by Greek public bodies up to 29-4-2013 is regulated, but which have been captured and integrated into the master plan of ports. In conclusion, I would like to make two proposals to the Minister and to the Ministry from the Step of the House. And I say this because, in his honour, Mr Kourublis, the Minister has visited Thesprotia in the past two times and we have discussed them closely. Minister, on the one hand, a fixed request for local communities in the ports hosting these cities to be able to receive some rewarding benefits, due to the large number of activities that exist from the ports, is to establish a framework for the certification and collection of port charges by the municipalities hosting ports, as a compensation for the environmental burden which the town of Igoumenitsa and other towns, hosting ports, from the traffic of vehicles and ships. Such a move, Minister, would provide liquidity to the municipalities concerned in order to provide services of general interest to citizens. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I know that it is your responsibility and the Ministry of Interior and your intention is to go in such a direction. You can be sure that it will be widely accepted and consented by all. We will urge you, for our part, to move this forward quickly. Secondly, it is also important to make a clear distinction between what is a project involving the Local Government and what is also a project involving the Port Agency. In other words, establishing a framework of transparency more effective in public procurement and direct awards, similar to the one made with the Ministry of Infrastructure with the system and the draw-up. So I think it's a bill that's bold. It makes the necessary areas that show both the political will and the direction of the government not only to solve problems of everyday life and local societies, but also to leave its footprint to another concept, nothing to do with those of the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u417	Mr President, please speak for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u418	Here, Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u419	It's 17.55'. A new amendment with twenty-two pages came. This cannot continue. It's unacceptable. I want to report her. Now he's shared!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u420	What's the general number?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u421	It has a general number 61. It can't go on. It's like spit on us. Do you want us to leave? So what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u422	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-two students and students and three educational attendants from the Achaea Beach General School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Constantine Katsafandos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u423	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Curublis, really congratulations! This bill, which you are tabling today, is the best bill that has ever been filed on island policy issues. And what I would suggest in plenary, if you will allow me, after your speech, is today to be termed a landmark for the Merchant Shipping day, since with incredible courage you have told us that nothing has happened since the liberalisation of the country to date, and this bill solves all the problems of shipping. You know what, Minister? A little metaphor to these difficult times that society is going through and our homeland is not harming. Because we all have our story and you as a older and older parliamentarian have a much bigger story than we do. One thing is certain, however, ladies and gentlemen: If we did not have this huge environmental damage that was done on the coast of Saronics by the shipwreck of "Agia ZONI 2", this piece of legislation would not have come. This is a bill that had been put into consultation since the first months of 2016, when the Minister of Commercial Shipping was still Mr. Dritsas. I cannot at this point - despite the fact that Mr Santorinios has left, who told us that the "Greek" is breaking - not to put to you, Minister, issues and questions which concern public opinion after so many months. Are the responsibilities charged to those who judged this sapiacaravo as a prosperous ship? And if so, who and who are they? Why did this ship finally sink? Will anyone answer us? When and how will all those affected by this environmental disaster be compensated? And when will the beaches finally be open so that all these citizens of Attica can swim again? So instead of giving us answers to these questions, you are bringing a piece of legislation that is based on sloppyness, serving obvious and beneficial political purposes of the government, since you do not really solve, but you are deepening problems of port and shipping policy. But this is your regular tactic. Unfortunately, the amateur and incompetence that you possess not only in managing the economic crisis experienced by the land, but, as we saw in the summer in the fires, in September with this shipwreck, but also, unfortunately, recently in the western Attica, where we lamented twenty-one victim and a missing person, together with the permanent "for everything the previous ones are to blame" and "What to do? We are trying, fighting, but, unfortunately, we do not have the means, because the previous ones are to blame for this situation that we are facing," leads you to build a line of defense, which actually offers nothing. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to the committee of bodies which have been called, but also to all those who have not called. What one can see is that we have a review of this bill between bias and party and political feasibility. Minister, we also agree that the way the Trade Ships Inspectorate operates is problematic. But, instead of improving him, instead of redeeming him, what are you doing? You're removing him. That's what you're doing, Minister. You do not, however, know that the existing classification societies can respond to the increased needs that will arise. We asked you. We did not receive a reply, we did not receive any response as to whether classification societies, who are currently operating, can respond to the increased needs that will be created. How can you give us an answer, since no study has been done and no preparation has been made? It was a communication "flare" which the Prime Minister flew to the Ministerial Council after the shipwreck. A second important remark concerns the financial burden on owners of small professional vessels. But in that we did not get an answer. So this is a slap, ladies and gentlemen of the government. You will now allow me to come to the field of micro-participatory purposes, which you also have. There, unfortunately, the provisions on transfers, placements, secondments are referred to, once the Minister becomes completely sovereign, after deciding and signing everything. Don't tell us, Mr. Kurubli, we don't know how to read. We know the regime that was in place before the bill you bring in.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u424	The people listen to you and me!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u425	We know the regime. Here's Mr. Drits. I don't understand. Why does the Minister have to ratify?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u426	Read Article 26, so that the people and you and I can hear it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u427	Mr Kurublé, it is characteristic that Article 21 is clear to this aim.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u428	Article 26!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u429	That is why every sense of discreet role has been circumvented between the political leadership and the operating structures of the Port Authority. Article 26 of the bill now makes it decorative to the body of the Port Authority, which until now is responsible for the transfers, and which will henceforth have an advisory character.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u430	No, Mr. Catasfado!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u431	I ask you, Minister, and you, Mr. Dritsa, where were you a minister, what has happened so far? Tell me what happened so far.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u432	The virgins!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u433	What did you do, Mr. Curublis? I ask you what happened so far! From now on, then, the Chief of the Port Corps should first pass through your office and if it does not make your own ruffles, then you will not sign. That's right. That's the reality, and that's what you want to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u434	That's right!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u435	That's right!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u436	People can hear you!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u437	However, the provisions of Article 27(5), which effectively abolishes the objective criteria for the movement of personnel within the regional administrations of the Port Authority, create a problem and concern. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the disciplinary provisions are also covered by the provisions governing disciplinary action, and in particular the provision that disciplinary chief of staff of the Port Authority will now be the Ministry's Secretary-General. Where did that sound, ladies and gentlemen? So I think it is clear why you do not want to listen to the officers of the Association of Officials of the Port Authority. Ladies and gentlemen, some people are applauded for the provisions according to which it is determined that the representatives of the flags of the Port Authority, the officers and the port guards will pass through the Pan-Hellenic Examinations rather than through the ALP procedure. And who told you we wouldn't agree on that? Is there any consultation between you, between the Ministry of Shipping and the Ministry of Education? Is there preparation for exactly when the ministerial decisions and the presidential decree will be adopted by the end of the year? Third question. In what scientific field will candidates who want to enter these three schools be examined? What Panhellenic Examinations are we talking about? When is it going to come into effect? This year? Next year? All in the air, ladies and gentlemen. And in this respect, you must answer not only yourself, but also the Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u438	Finish it, Mr. Katasafandos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u439	I would like your tolerance, Mr President. Another very important thing is that with the system that you want to adopt, you exclude the staffing of the Port Authority with executives with degrees, postgraduate qualifications and from the Schools of the Commercial Navy. Do you know how useful these guys are? Do you know how helpful all these worthy executives, who under these difficult circumstances give their battle to defend the interests of the country? Unfortunately I am not allowed to do so because I have been misused in time, Mr President, but I would like to give an answer to what the government has to do with the article, that for islands and municipalities under five thousand inhabitants they will be able to make contracts between the Ministry and the municipality, so that they can have ferry transport. How will that be, Minister? Will you give them ships? Do the municipalities have the financial means? Sit down and say and go and celebrate. So Mr. Santorinios a moment ago. Do you remember what the people's base companies had? Sit down and go on and celebrate and say that there are no more problems on the ferry connection. I don't know what's going on in the remote islands. I'll tell you you've made the Saronic barren line. Two weeks now in Methanah, there is no boat, Minister. And that's your success. You said about the Kytheras, and you should ask the Chirigos and the Chirigotes. Here's Mr. Dritsa, all these years of parliamentary activity. Tell us, Mr. Dritsa, what summer the Kythera didn't have a boat.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u440	You won't have a dialogue at this hour.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u441	This is the reality and as much as you want to avoid it, you won't be able to. You'll deal with her. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u442	Ask what the mayor said the day before yesterday at an open event!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u443	Until the European Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, Mr Cavalellas, comes to Step, I would like to make a statement to this House. The Standing Committees on Public Administration, Public Order, Justice and Trade have submitted their report to the draft law of the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information: ‘Renewal - Amendment - Consolidation of the Convention on a special licence to exploit the exclusive right of the Greek State to access and use the nominal position of 39° east on the track of the artificial geostatic satellites of the earth and its correlations with the construction, launch, operation and commercial exploitation of a satellite system of pan-Hellenic and cross-border space under the name of ELAS SAT (HELLAS SAT)’. Here you go, Mr. Cavaldela, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u444	Thank you very much, Mr President. I have heard the spokesmen of the New Democracy begging the Minister to be chasing the government. I'd like to ask. That boat, all of a sudden it's old? It could be you, gentlemen of the New Democracy, government, and the same thing could happen. It is the dreadful state, which - you and PASOK have ruled for so many years, of course, has the PASOK - established it. This ship didn't get old all of a sudden. We should admit that some actions have indeed been taken quickly to be restored by the Minister. We must recognise that. We are against the government for a thousand two mistakes it makes. But if something is done positive, why not say 'bravo, move on'? In any case, our opinion is that it is important to maintain in such cases a low tone and a low profile, because these problems are dating. Now let me get to the point of the matter, get into the bill. This is a huge bill, which is like a telephone list and today an amendment has come, which is a hundred and thirty pages. There's indeed a matter here. The honourable Member cannot be aware of what this amendment says about the same thing. In any case, I will speak only about island policy and tourism. Tourism is being affected more and therefore our islands too. I have to say that I spoke to Mr Santorinio the day before yesterday and somehow he reassured me. However, there are many points which are also gray and black. I contacted the Association of Owners of Tourism Boats, because we have the bad luck of the Aegean dealing with tourists. What's going on? When we charge our own tourist boats, the tourist prefers to board and land from Turkey. I will bring a characteristic example: from a 55-foot, eight-year-old tourist vessel in 'low season', when ten people are on board - not to tell the owner and the agents, etc. How much are they going - Turkey will collect oil, along with airports, taxi, etc. and supply of the vessel 14.150 euros. This will sail towards the Aegean and our islands. These tourists, because these boats are supplied with food - the purpose for which some do not go to hotels is to better enjoy some beaches that cannot reach any other means, such as car, etc. - consume food and beverage and other species within the vessel, which are supplied by the place where they are shipped. So Turkey will receive EUR 14,150 and our islands will receive EUR 4,250, that is, the damage is EUR 283,000. Also, the passenger's journey would be cheaper by EUR 180 if he boarded and landed in Turkey, because they do not have VAT, they do not have the fees of boats and these funny things that New Democracy thought about, regardless of whether it did not apply them. It doesn't matter. He created the conditions for moving a government later against our tourism. In the Aegean Sea and in our islands there are too many islanders, who are active in tourism, who have large cakis, traditional wooden boats, carrying out daily boats. They start this morning and visit different parts of their own island that are of tourist interest. They visit bays, bays, beaches, they carry several tourists, who in return for a small ticket are on board. This is about Mykonos, Santorini and some other islands, and we could say that it is quite profitable. However, there are small islands, which also have some beaches that are not served by a road that can go by car. There are taverns, there are various small shops that, when they visit with this tourist boat, some tourists give life, they also give VAT, they also pay taxes to our country. I don't understand why you're messing with tourism, which is the steam engine, I'd say, the economy in Greece, because we don't produce anything. We don't even produce a pin. Unfortunately, everyone's gone. I visited the Association of Owners of Professional Vessels with these professional vessels rented by tourists. This club has more than seven hundred fifty companies - members, and that is where about three thousand vessels fall. So the Greek yacht has emerged because other markets are now starting to grow, such as Croatia, such as Malta, as Turkey, which is a competitive force in tourism of this kind. You should bear in mind that every vessel of this type is a work cell, because every charter is employed from three to ten persons on board and on land, except for the jobs created in more than sixty professions supporting maintenance, management, chartering, promotion, etc. This is a special study of the University of Piraeus prepared by the Naval Chamber of Naval Greece. They're not my words. In other words, it is a chain and we must take care of that. Tourism has left us. Ships have a property that doesn't have a hotel. They change flags at sea and Turkey closes the eye. Many thousands of our ships have already been there and the rest will go and we'll look. The marinas are empty. So we have to do something before it's too late. We have tabled our positions on this. There is Article 86. I don't know if it's changed now. I am talking about the old Article 86, "Fleet of Recreational Ships and Calendars", which New Democracy thought about. From this fee you must exclude professional vessels. Turkey has no fees. Malta has no fees. No one has a fee. These vessels shall carry foreign exchange. When the Greek shipowner is not competitive, I told you that they will take the ship from Turkey, they will go to the Aegean Sea, they will go to the supermarket in Turkey, they will touch their money, they will go to the airport in Turkey, pay airport taxes, tax taxes, tax taxes, one, the other, they will go back to the city, there they will ruin their money, in the oil from there, in the waters from there, the ship's fare from there. In Turkey 14.150, on islands in Greece 4,200. These ships therefore bring foreign exchange to Greece and must be competitive. If they're not competitive, we don't do anything. The end of the voyages, if you want to apply it, for me it's wrong, because it's crumbs that you get in front of the benefit that our country will have in case more tourists come and flew from some place in Greece. You have to keep in mind the age of a ship. A new ship can pay a fee like this. An old ship, though? The shipowner fights with a thousand two things, and many times it's incomprehensible. Perhaps more the love of the shipowner is the one that keeps the ship, but when we charge the old one with the new one, the luxury with the wooden one with the same logic and the same factor, we are certainly unfair to one of the two. You should bear in mind that old vessels have fewer days of chartering and lower prices. They also have more expensive repair fees. In our view, time must be taken into account and not charge the winter maintenance that is out on the land. They don't do boats then. It also increases the exorbitant fee for vessels over 12 metres in length. In relation to the current scheme, an increase of 44% to 55%. The fee costs are also increased from 12 to 13 metres by 136.36%. It is completely counterproductive and uninvested to reduce the discount on professional vessels from 50% to 25% and the marinas will follow. They'll want the same. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I won't eat your time. I could say a lot. We must all strive to ensure that any businesses that have more work to do and that they also pay more VAT to the public. There is also something I do not understand: only one charter per day is allowed. Why do you mind that? Do you mind having another circle? You're going to collect the VAT. Why would he only make one charter? To be able to make five charters a day, three, as many as you want, but to be calculated one day fare. That's not bad. "Do twenty-five charters, bring me VAT to put in the pocket, but I count one day fare." That makes sense. We also have to do this with the maximum allowed to twelve people twenty-five. We need to help tourism. Otherwise it doesn't make any sense. There is also something else about the fares. There are some boats going to Lichadonesia, they take ten, fifteen people with 8 euros each, 15 visits a day, and they survive. If they are prevented from taking another fare, with 90 euros, how will they be able to support their families, boat and crew? There are a lot of things you need to see here. I'll come back with a question later. I think that the issue of tourism and especially professional pleasure boats must be taken seriously, because many are ready to leave, as has happened before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u445	Thank you, too. Mr. Treasury from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u446	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, Minister, Minister, on the issues referred to by the law, the Qualified Opposition with its parliamentary representative, as well as with the rapporteur, has been placed in detail. When you had put this draft law in public consultation, I was standing on two issues, on the establishment of a port academy in Alexandroupolis, but also on the issue of the transfer and placement of the representatives of the port department of Samothraki. Recently, Minister, you visited Evros at the regional conference on productive reconstruction. At your meeting with the mayor of the city of Alexandroupolis, as well as with local authorities, you were stressed by the multi-faceted importance of the establishment of the port academy and its existing schools, as referred to in Article 72. I put forward the corresponding document for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Anastasios Prussakis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As soon as you bring the extension of the pan-Hellenic examinations and the representatives of the Port House, in accordance with Article 79, a port academy is to be set up in paragraph 4 and we now expect you to define the seat of this House by this law. This is the housewife, that's what lawyers follow, and that's what experience says. Since it is your intention to establish the port academy by a Presidential Decree, referred to in Article 79, I think that the Presidential Decree, if included, Minister, and its seat, will be valid. Let me remind you that the Municipality of Alexandroupolis has granted over the years an area of 148 acres in the best area of the city, near the sea, between two ports, that is, the centre of Alexandroupolis and the district of Macris. In fact, until the main facilities are built, temporary facilities have also been found to accommodate the educational needs, but also all the pedagogics they will teach at the existing schools of the port academy. But you are once again hesitant to carry out this important work and constantly find excuses for postponements. You raise the issue of finding a staffing staff that can keep training at a high level. The paradox is that you express these reservations after the memorandum of cooperation signed by your Ministry with the Democritus University of Thrace. Today, in fact, you mentioned it very proudly in your speech. Only this cooperation, which began even on paper, Mr Secretary, guarantees the high level of the port academy. Synergies with sections of Democritus can help train students in the academy. Do not forget that there are three police schools in Thrace - in Xanthi, Komotini and the Dumotich - and there have been teachers and lecturers and lecturers and we have absolutely no problem. You also bring a draft law to vote for the establishment of academia schools and you do not say where it is to be done. Shouldn't we know the seat? When are you going to announce it to us? What are the candidate cities? Why such secrecy? Mayor Alexandroupolis sent you a letter today, updating the demand for local society, asking you to define in this bill as the seat of the port academy of Alexandroupolis, stressing even that the Democritus University is committed to teaching teachers in courses to be determined by the academy. It also emphasises that it has facilities which it offers unpaid to serve the educational needs of the body. Both in my speech in the public consultation of the draft law and in the debate on the timely question that we had here in plenary, Mr Secretary, I stressed the multi-level role that the port academy can play in Evros and Thrace. It can well move to an international post-training centre for port authorities of Member States of the European Union on cross-border crime, but also the violation of our land and maritime borders. They can also become productive and efficient synergies with the Police Schools of Komotini, Xanthi and the Dumotech. An important parameter for the creation of the port academy in Alexandroupolis is the fact that Evros and, in general, Thrace have the best level of education and that is because they have islands, sea, rivers and strictly land borders with a deterrent barrier. So there is a splendid field of glory. So there is no excuse on your part. All it takes is political will. I think it's time you took her. Baptise the port academy that you will shortly establish with the Presidential Decree until 31 December, as you have committed, and write that it will have the seat of Alexandroupolis. With regard to transfers - placements at the port of Samothraki, unfortunately in the geographical part of Thrace there is a different logic in the locations compared to the ones in the rest of Greece. Victims of this injustice are the strains of the port section of Samothraki, as this service is considered to be subordinate to Alexandroupolis, without any mobilisation bonus so far. So since you are promoting legislation and in accordance with Article 72 for the process of staffing various parts of the port, I suggest that it also has retrospective power, because the representatives of the Port House have served in this area - that is, Samothraki - over five, six, seven, eight years old. It should have retrospective effect, and indeed be explicitly registered in the law, rather than coming out of the interpretation of a paragraph. I would also like to close my speech with our amendment to the other colleagues on the stay of the islands of the north-eastern and south-eastern Aegean, including Samothraki, in the arrangements for special VAT rates. We propose that this scheme be extended until 31/12-2018 and that the increase in the VAT rate on these islands should not proceed as from 1 January 2018. Especially for Samothraki, Mr. Undersecretary, I would like to tell you that, as you know, it is a special case, because it is hurt because of recent disasters. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u447	Thank you, too. Mrs. Karakosta from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u448	Good evening to all of you who are here today, but also to all the citizens who are watching us. We government MPs, as you can see, when such bills come, can only be pleased, we can be happy, because, for example, this bill seeks to develop and strengthen Greek shipping, to ensure the protection of human life, to protect the environment and to simplify the administrative procedures of the Ministry of Shipping. Through this bill, the existing framework concerning the service change of the staff of the Port Authority is democratised, and in particular the criteria for transfers, secondments and transfers are being standardised. It is a very serious issue that we have experienced and said why. Mandatory compilation of tables of shifted staff by the Board of Transfers is required. I stress here, because it seems that the opposition has not understood it, that after the tables have been drawn up, then the Minister's ratification takes place. For transfers a competent collective body is the Executive Board and decisions are ratified by the Minister for Maritime Affairs. Multitude, parents of children with an incurable or incurable illness or disability, or persons with disabilities from similar subjects, that is to say, shall only be transferred after their previous reference. It's very socially interesting. An objective disciplinary system is being established that fully respects the rights of the officials of the Port Authority. The representatives of the Port Body and their families receive health care from the EEAS, while the civil servants of the Ministry of Shipping, as well as their families, are given the right to prescribe from the maritime medical professions. For the first time, operational planning of the Port Authority is being attempted to create a rational environment for the public administration. The School of Inspectors of Ships and Port Installations is hereby established, providing training to the staff of the Ministry of Shipping in matters of safety and inspection. The College of Auditor Inspectors is set up and has all the powers to carry out inspections. This ensures our country's response to its international Union obligations. The Maritime Ministry is set up as a body for consultation on shipping policy. From 30-9-2018, Greek ships will be issued only by the classification societies that are authorised. From 1-1-2018, that is to say, the possibility of extending licences to permanently anchored vessels shall be abolished from 1-2018. For us who live in Piraeus and close to Salamis, Megaron, the Central Port of Piraeus and Aegina, we understand what this means to the marine area. The introduction to the schools of the Port House is being introduced with full-scale examinations. This is an essential step towards establishing democracy in the system of introduction to the Port House. The structure of forces is established with the democratic co-existence of all sectors of the Port House. The aim is to assess the real needs of the body in personnel and equipment, as well as the ways in which these needs will be met. For the first time, it is planned for 15 years and with a three-year rolling programme, to know what supplies are needed and how the staff are moving. For the protection of the environment it is proposed that a paradox be paid for permitting shipments of bulk of oil between tankers at sea, that a fine be paid to the responsible illegal interference with the sea, sea, sea and seabed and port zone. In the event of an infringement in an environmentally sensitive NATURA area, this fine shall be doubled. Regarding the regulation of the legalisation of existing port infrastructures in all ports and the payment of arbitrary compensation, I agree with the amendment tabled by my colleague Mr Lazarides under number 1352, which proposes that no compensation should be paid if it has not been paid or confirmed by the competent IUs, that is to say, that it should go in accordance with a previous decree that we mentioned on all arbitrary matters, if it is arbitrary. An amendment, which I endorse, has also been tabled concerning the arbitrary use of ports in land areas. Where the sum of EUR 30,000 as a limit is to be made two years and interest and surcharges should not be taken into account, and the criminal proceedings in question should also be postponed within this exclusive two-year period. With regard to the prohibition of 1-1-2018 the movement of maritime fuels by ships over thirty years of age, 1-1-2022 requires the obligation to comply with European law of the introduction of double-hulls to single-hull oil tankers - it is important, we had the example of 'Agia ZONIS 2' - the obligation to communicate to the competent port authorities the position of carrying out rocking in Greek territorial waters, the compulsory registration of all ship receiving and managing providers in the electronic waste register, so as to put an end to the opacity of the procedures for the collection and management of waste from ships. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You will give me one more minute, Mr President. The benefits that will arise for our islands and citizens are as follows: The preparation of programme contracts between the Ministry and local authorities to cover the maritime transport of the islands for reasons of territorial, social and economic cohesion, the establishment of a permanent council of passenger transport islands, with a view to improving the connection of the islands with the mainland, the development of combined transport and the upgrading of maritime transport. It is unprecedented for so many years that the port of Piraeus does not have a railway if we think it was double-track railways. The bill provides for the improvement of accessibility for people with disabilities to the ports, the fight against illegal chartering of pleasure boats, the free provision of land port spaces to public services, which is very important in the public interest. Finally, it is equally important that ship crew rights are upgraded. It is now necessary to pay wages and insurance contributions by the employer for the launching of each type of ship, while the infringement entails a ban on departure. Personal emergency position indicator radios shall be established. It increases the monthly unemployment allowance granted to all seafarers, EUR 450, with the possibility of adjusting it. Medical care is provided to seafarers who are unemployed, disabled or studying. To conclude, I would like to ask the Minister, although what he intends to do about the seamen's trade union movement, governed by laws, which have their payments to decrees and laws of the silk period and to the anti-virtual law of Law No. 330/1976 and not to Law No.1264/82.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u449	Mrs. Caracosta, we're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u450	This creates vibrations and malfunctions in the seafarers' trade union movement. I would really like the Minister's comment and initiatives he intends to take on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u451	Mr. Michaelides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u452	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law, which we are debating today, is a set of interventions, which concern a large part of the area of competence of the Ministry of Trade Maritime and Island Policy and touches on issues that have been gleaning for many years. I believe that due to the scope of the provisions, the long and systematic preparation, on which it was based, and in particular the very content of the arrangements, the positive and necessary sections which it marks and the objectives of its logic, the draft law regulates in a fair and effective way a number of activities, practices, processes and functions. This was largely reflected in the bodies' positions during the debate of the draft law in the committee. In short, I only note the parts of the bill, which provide for the strengthening of the inspection framework, but also of the ship surveillance system, the attempt to establish for the first time a clear, rational and fair framework for transfers, diversions and transfers of the staff of the Port Authority, which is a framework which tries and democratically makes known customer or other opaque procedures known and to unravel out the respective attitudes, the extremely important provision for introduction into the schools of the Hellenic Coast Guard through the pan-Hellenic examinations, the establishment for the first time of a maximum age of ships, which carry shipping fuels with a clear objective of combating lawlessness and protection of the environment, as well as public health. Finally, as far as the establishment of a body of auditors at the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy is concerned, we have repeatedly noted the positive contribution of such bodies, which operate in other ministries. Many of these provisions are very clear about the nature of important, if not radical arrangements with a view to creating deep prints in the individual fields that regulate them. Let me also look a little further at the specific articles of the law, as well as the amendments that have been tabled, which deal with issues facing our islands, but also with the issues of maritime and maritime education. As far as issues of island and islands are concerned, the possibility for municipalities and islands up to five thousand inhabitants to conclude a public service programme contract with the Ministry of Trade, using public and European resources, is concerned. Port projects and structures are regulated in the terrestrial zone, allowing them to legalise existing port facilities through specific conditions and procedures. In accordance with Article 124, the Council for Passenger Transport of the Islands, whose objective is, of course, to improve the connection between the islands and the mainland. Indirect objective, therefore, is an institutional strengthening of the principle of islandity. As far as maritime issues are concerned, the protection of workers' working rights on board ships is being strengthened, as is the payment of wages and contributions from ferry companies now compulsory for the start of the service at some point. In the event of termination and non-compliance within a specified time limit, a ship's departure shall be prohibited. In Article 114 we must take note of the provisions of strengthening the protection of seafarers. In particular, paragraph 1 extends age limits and other conditions for seafarers' children in order to enjoy protection from the Navy. Paragraph 3 increases the monthly unemployment benefit for all categories of seafarers to 350 euros. This is an increase of EUR 65 to 115 compared to the current level of the allowance. Article 119 removes the requirement to prepare three years for first-class masters and engineers to make insurance compulsory at the NAT. This facilitates the recruitment of new seamen and strengthens insurance contributions in favour of the NAT, which, as you know, faces the known problems from the great disparity of workers and retired seafarers. The amendment stipulates that the granting of disability-related benefits to the Navy House requires certification by CEPD. Allow me one last thing, but very important to us, especially for the islands to which I am going, is the establishment of a public school of maritime life and fire-fighting instruments in the Onousses. This school will provide the necessary training for seafarers and will be added to the two existing, Egyptian and Municipalities, which, as all seafarers know, because of their high demand, there is a great accumulation of demands and a large number of seafarers resort to private operators with what this may entail. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. I'll be done. Finally, the local academies of a commercial seafarer are given the opportunity to establish special sections of masters in class, rulers in second and third grades, engineers in class and commercial seafarer electricians. The establishment of these departments, of course, requires various educational and administrative issues. However, this opens the way for the establishment of special schools for the academies of a commercial seafarer who have expressed relative interest, including to report the Chios Marine Engineering Academy and Master of Oinoussa. I think it is obvious that the above-mentioned arrangements are of many benefits. First of all, our seafarers, graduates of shipping and other ESDP specialties and other interested parties are being strengthened and facilitated in education, professionally and economically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u453	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty students and students and two educational escorts from the public IEK Transformation. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Santorinios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u454	To say about the amendments. First of all, for the ministerial amendments. The amendment with a general number 1343 and a special number 18 is accepted. The amendment with a general number 1353 and a special number 22 is accepted. The amendment with a general number of 1356 and a special number of 25 is accepted. The amendment with a general number of 1357 and a special number of 26 is accepted. The amendment with a general number of 1358 and a special number of 27 is accepted. The amendment with a general number of 1361 and a specific number of 30 is accepted. We shall now proceed to the parliamentary amendments. H by a general number of 1350 and a special 19 by Mrs. Dritsa, a dozen, etc. it's accepted. The general figure of 1351 and a special 20, for the certification of the privileged allowances of the House of Navy, is accepted. Mr Lazaridis's general number 1352 and specific number 21 are not acceptable, but because it is a substantial amendment, it is included in the legislative improvements that we will be tabling, so that he enters the legislative framework in Article 86. The general figure of 1354 and a special number of 23 by Mrs Manolakos and Mr Katsotis cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u455	We didn't doubt it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u456	Nevertheless, we are sure that you will vote on Rule 78. The general figure of 1355 and a specialist of 24 shall not be accepted. The general number 1359 and special 28 of the Municipal Councils and the Kamaterou are accepted. The general number 1360 and special number 29 of Mr. Diaras, Mr. Kamaterou, Mr. Theleritis and other colleagues is accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u457	Mr. Lazarides, is there any reason to speak now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u458	No, there is no, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u459	Mr President, I would also like to table the legislative improvements which are in line with the proposals made by the Scientific Committee of the Parliament and some other corrections. I would say that the most important of them are in Article 76, which says that the municipalities that are islands are also included, which has been requested. The amendments to Article 86 are also made in line with the changes proposed by Mr Lazaridis, both legally and in the main law. I'm tabling them for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u460	Mr Mavrotas, the Parliamentary spokesman from the Potami.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u461	Thank you, Mr President. Unfortunately, I cannot begin by congratulating the parliamentary procedures that we are following today, and I am referring specifically to the multimodality, which you brought a few hours ago, of fifteen pages. When to study this multimodality. Or is the purpose of not studying it? If the issues included in this multimodality were important, why are you enjoying them in this process? If it wasn't important, why do they have to pass glue like this? You seem to think the House is a decorative thing. Then we'll come up with subsequent provisions to correct laws that pass through the mussels. We have said this many times, as far as we are concerned at the end of the year, we have the same phenomenon. Last year we left the meeting for the same reason. It seems to me that, as you go, this year we'll do it again. And we're going to the bill. After almost three years of the present government comes the first shipping bill, except for some relevant sanctions that we have voted on during this period. And to think that we are talking about a country with a trademark, with intense commercial and tourist activity around shipping and, of course, a country characterized by great islandity. Did AYIA ZONI 2 need to come to the bill? Shipping is certainly a dowry for the country which is one of our comparative advantages that contributes to the economy. It is a key pillar of development and can thus act further collaboratively for the benefit of other economic sectors in the country. This bill is a multi-legislative draft in substance. It includes a hundred and thirty-four articles, which have many thematics, such as the inspection of ships and port installations, the qualifications and training of inspectors and auditors, security and policing issues of the personnel of the Port Body and the Greek Coast Guard. A large part of the bill relates to the service framework of ports, transfers, secondments, transfers, as well as the entire disciplinary part. Staff issues also continue in Articles 58 to 75 which make significant changes. Finally, issues are being regulated for ports and for various other issues relating to island policy and shipping. Although, as our rapporteur said, the bill corrects and resolves issues, the truth is that you bring a bill with many scattered provisions instead of sharing the legislative work of the Ministry, which does the Ministry of Education often and the Ministry of Health and so on. As I said, 'Ministry of Education', let me turn to Article 79, as I agree with the inclusion of the Schools of Officers, Officers and Port Guards at the respective levels of higher and higher education. We are also in agreement with the introduction to these schools of the port with the system of pan-Hellenic examinations. But I would really like to ask you, and above all the Minister of Education, Mr. Gavroglou, if it is possible that everything will be possible in a month to get in from the new academic year through the pan-Hellenic examinations at these schools. The question is when all these curriculum programmes, when teachers. If they do not enter the law, as Mr Santorinios said earlier - and these things really do not go into the law - do we already have them ready for the presidential decree, or is a common glue here too? I'm afraid it's a flaming academic firework. I wish I could be disproved. Let me also ask you my question, although I am not a legal engineer, about the legislature that has 'if, instead, else', namely 'if, then, otherwise, it means that, as referred to in Article 79, and I read from within - if the Presidential Decree referred to in paragraph 1 has been issued by 31/12/2017, the school introduction takes place from the academic year 2018-2019, that is from the next September, with the system of pan-Hellenics. If the above decree is issued after 31/12/2017, the integration of these schools into the system of pan-Hellenic examinations will apply from the following academic year following the Presidential Decree. It would suffice only to say that the integration of these schools into the system of pan-Hellenic examinations will take effect from the next academic year following the Presidential Decree. Why do we put ‘31-12-2017’? Either we do something hasty, which then we run to fix it, or we do it for purely communication reasons, say it's something that's ready, and it's actually not. However, because it seems that it is not ready, it is important that we do not play with them and legislate, much more on education issues, when they are clearly and clearly defined the things and the conditions that concern them, because we are dealing with young people and the choices of their future career. It is also because we see the possibility of direct awards in many cases being abused, in Article 92 it is important to introduce more variations in what specific projects - port interventions may amount to up to EUR 100,000 by direct delegation, following a decision by the Secretary-General of ports, port policy and maritime investment. Since sometimes in Greece the exceptions become rules, this flexibility of the amount should be specified. This applies, for example, only to natural disasters, such as the earthquake in Kos and the port that suffered a great deal of damage. Since we are on island policy issues, let me refer to something that has already been said about the abolition of the reduced VAT, which will apply from 1-1-2018 to the remote islands. This will certainly have a very negative impact on the professionals and the inhabitants of the islands, because it is not a privilege, but a reasonable compensation for the intense islandity of the country and all the other difficult and cost-effective it entails for islanders. After all, as the representatives of the productive operators of the islands of the north Aegean, visited us, the expected revenues from the application of the highest VAT will be much smaller than estimated, while the damage too much for the local communities. So you must look at this - in cooperation, of course, with the European institutions - because islands in our country require the economic viability of local communities, which are not the most privileged because of tourism. Finally, Mr Skourletis' amendment, which was made in Article 133 of the bill, moves to the same logic, as the government does in other cases, that is to say, his logic "divests and reigns". He has already done so in the main body of the shipping bill, taking advantage of different views within the federations. On the pretext of the autonomy of trade unions in the public sector, therefore, leaves a loophole in the disagreements and in the populism of one side, which, although not collapsing in commonly shaped positions, can sell a revolution, but then take advantage of what the other secondary trade union has achieved. Let's go to news. A more general comment, allow me, on the occasion of recent tragic events in West Attica and the large number of victims. Within almost three months, Greece and especially Attiki has experienced three major disasters, the fires in August, the big deal with environmental damage from the shipwreck of "AYIA ZONI 2" in Saronicos and now the floods in Western Attica. Unfortunately, number three is also mentioned in your years of governance, and unfortunately, you cannot continue to give up in the previous 40 years of post-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-municipalism. Three years is not too short to wash your hands. You have delayed a long time in dealing with these major disasters and at last we have to say that. However, no one ever blames, only the low tiles, the phantoms of the gate shut by the "Rubicon". It's their fault, they're paying for it. There is no objective political responsibility. People, though, know, understand that. He understands both the insufficiency and the lack of ethicity. In the House - and I will close with that, Mr President - the agenda is now being fixed by the media and their topicality. So, yesterday, on the occasion of the news and the indiscretion of the media, as Mr Tsipras says, his request to the President of Parliament is to postpone the debate on the current question on the Saudi missiles of your co-pilot, Mr Kammenos, for a second time. I'm sorry, but the House cannot necessarily be transformed into a communication arena of the two Heads. We've said that before. We are here for society and not for communication. And on the parliamentary agenda, we will be listening to needs and not the lines. So today we have had the new parliamentary procedure for the parallel processing of two bills - because the one hundred-fifth-page amendment that actually came was a small bill - and indeed with the element of surprise to measure our reflexes seems to be, if we can work a hundred and fifteen pages in four hours. And because you are approaching the end of the year in which you are prone to such spoonfuls with last-minute amendments and rhysphetological provisions, we tell you that, if they come, you will vote for them on your own. We won't be in it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u462	Thank you, too. Mr Miltiadis Varvitsiotis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u463	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, while the Prime Minister takes the distinguished 'cock-out' prize in Paris, I believe that he should also be a candidate for the 'Pinokio' prize from what is given in Italy. Because he came here and told us incredible things between them and a series of lies. He told us that he solved the problems of ferry transport and that he first went "BLUE STAR" to Psara. Minister, 2014 went. As in 2014, the coastline problem of Lemnos was solved, which caused the people of Lemnos to suffer for years. In fact, in the amendments we had at the time, SYRIZA voted against them. That's the reality. And this year, August, after continuous extensions given by your predecessor to an unscrupulous ship, Kytheras were left without a ferry connection and what we expected was achieved. He told us that for the first time he brought transparency to the Ministry. First of all, transparency and the way it legislates is unprecedented. We are talking about a hundred and fifteen pages, after four exhaustive meetings in committee, and it brings a pre-prepared amendment of a hundred and fifteen pages at the end of the sitting, without having referred to these matters. This is not called 'parliamentary transparency'. This is 'I want to hide what I want to do'. Secondly, you told us that you were bringing transparency to the port. What? But are we returning to the Peloponnese seasons in the 1980s? You're the bad PASOK. Do you understand that? Can you arrange for the Minister to sign the transfers and be the final judge of the transfers? He said Mr. Dritsas for a warrant. What guarantee of transparency? The guarantor of the transaction with the Port Corps Headquarters. That's the reality. As far as the secondments are concerned, the same applies. The port distractions are made by the Minister, who do you want to go and who do you not want to go? You told us that you were abolishing Russephetto rule. Roofets, ruffles, ruffles are the whole of your bill. Appointments are made to individual positions, as they exist in Mr Dritsa's amendment. Are the officers going to make transfers to other charges and positions again with ministerial decisions? You're giving promotions through this bill again. Minister, you blame your predecessors for tourism at the Ministry of Shipping, but you're the biggest tourist ever. You were a tourist in London when you needed the deaf situation that was created in Saronic and then, as a tourist, you told us that we could go swimming in Saronic. Do we think, today, almost three months later, is the Ministry of Health ban on swimming in Saronic? You are talking about the state control that must exist everywhere, and today you are abolishing the state control of the world's largest shipping industry. Remove state control of ships by the greatest naval force. That's what you're doing. A bill for the inspectors, which was ready, you didn't bring it and abolished the inspection. That's what you're doing today. You grant public authority to classification societies and you have not told us who you have signed a contract or who is willing to sign a contract and what costs for fishermen, for boatmen, for those who have small boats. I have heard you many times say how amazingly you will do in equipment and how bad people before did work in the yards abroad. One contest and only you've come out in three years when you're a government! What does this competition say? I'll testify to him for your partners to read him, because I'm afraid you don't know what you signed. It publishes an electronic open competition for international participation and with bail letters very large! I put it in the Minutes for the Minister, to know it, who says he'll bring the Greek shipyards. [[At this point the Member, Mr Miltiadis Varvitsiotis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Would you like to tell us one of the Greek shipyards that will deposit the guarantee letter of participation in the tender, which is twice as much as expected? In three years, at the level of supplies you have done nothing to your ministry. Three years you've been in government, Mr. Dritsa. In the eighteen months that I was, for which a lot of you say, we took an offshore ship - and a second that was repaired and airworthy - two patrols, three highways, ninety cars, thermal cameras, twelve inflatables, VHF and GPS for all ships, X-ray, trucks that had no service of the Greek state. The customs took twelve years to get them. We got cars with thermal cameras. We got a computer. We received rescue equipment and too much pollution equipment, the one in the warehouses and you did not use in the shipwreck of "SYIA ZONI". Because at the shipwreck of "AYIA ZONI" you accepted a tug company to make depollution.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u464	Do you mean these useless things you took with the intervention of the Queen of Denmark? Is that what you mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u465	Minister, you'll get the floor later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u466	We made use of what was in existence, 100 million euros of equipment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u467	Do you mean these useless things you took with the intervention of the Danish royal house?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u468	When you do even 1 million euros, come and talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u469	With transparency.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u470	Three years sitting in this chair and you've done nothing. You haven't done anything. Your balance sheet is zero. This is why the eastern Aegean border is open. That's why the islanders are suffering. That's why others see the absence of the state. You should go tell the Mytilians, the Chiots and the Samiots who undergo your policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u471	I'm going. You don't go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u472	Minister, you'll get the floor later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u473	You should go. Do you have the courage to go now that you impose them the VAT now that you have imposed on them a special enclavement?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u474	Ten days ago, I was there.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u475	Do you have the courage to go now, after Mr Muzala's failure to escape to Europe, who will charge his policy to the international community? I shall conclude, Mr President, on one point. We are told that they are taking a huge step towards transparency in the port through their submission to the Greek exams. Anyone who listens to this says that's right. Yeah, but you know that, to get a port ship captain with these procedures, the sooner you get him will be in nine years. It'll be nine years. In nine years, the first commander of a new ship will be here. Nine years you are condemning the Port Authority not to take any officer, because it will have to end the school - which you have not established, which you do not know where it will go, which you do not know when you will finance it - and then go through the AAR for three years to become governor. That's the reality. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] So if you want to abolish the Port, we will feel happy, because it is so bad your legislation, which this bill is too difficult to implement. Eleven Presidential Decrees provide for its operation and forty-four ministerial decisions, of which fourteen are joint ministerial decisions. With such a legacy, all you can do is say a lot and do nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u476	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. We're entering second grades. Mr Arvanitides has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u477	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Varvichiotis, let's leave this good and bad PASOK. First take your responsibilities for the country's period of governance and how you delivered it in 2009. Get your responsibilities for what's going on from here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u478	That's it. Say nothing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u479	Minister, I'm the one who's speaking. You have to tell them and you have to decide to govern.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u480	He dares to talk about Xenophon Peloponnese!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u481	And you must decide to rule and be judged by your work and not by the words.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u482	The archirosfetologist. Such are your idols. We know.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u483	It's a disgrace.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u484	I have taken the floor to answer the Minister, who, instead of answering what we have been asking him for two weeks, has taken the whole Opposition out of hand. That really bothers me. He told us not much or much that in shipping he received burnt land, of course forgetting that we are talking about one of the very competitive branches of the Greek economy. He also told us that the former were to blame for everything - as always - and, of course, forgetting to say that they, the bad ones before, supported them for decades. Of course, we are being swamped by the Minister for Maritime Affairs, who, together with his predecessor, has been completely absent from Parliament and from any initiative that could improve shipping issues. You are tabling at the last minute an amendment which is a mini bill. You are tabling amendments up to this time when we are talking and you think that you are in a position to suggest to Members whether or not they read the bill. You say that in shipping you need consultation of the parties. That is true, and we believe that too. With this style, however, you use all you do is achieve exactly the opposite. So I will once again ask you the questions you are avoiding, to see who has read the bill well and who is not. For Article 30, answer us what legality the Minister will do in port transfers before signing? In Article 37, will you link the port assessment to the Ministry's productive indicators, or will you simply bring a presidential decree to pass through the Troika's positions? In Articles 52 and 57, why didn't you ask for an opinion from the Single Independent Public Procurement Authority? Didn't you read, Minister, that you are obliged by law to ask for an opinion? In Article 65, will you answer why the time of military service counts for a higher degree only for specific graduates of the Port Guard School and not for all? Didn't you hear the representatives of the Port House blaming you for discrimination? In Article 79, will you answer whether the pan-Hellenic system will apply this year? Will you respond to the degree of preparedness of the Ministry of Education in infrastructure, curricula and educational staff? Will you explain to us how the empty organic positions that exist today will be covered until the first students of these schools graduate? In Article 97, will you answer who will pay the operating expenses of the property you grant? Will you answer whether they can be granted in return, without public services, real estate made with European Union money to serve the Greek industry? In Article 91, will you answer why direct awards can be drawn from EUR 20,000 to EUR 100,000 by decision of the Secretary-General of Ports? In Article 94, why do you send to unemployment the owners of small boats who go to swim on the beaches? They blame you for doing so to serve the larger recreational boats and you have not answered anything about it. Will you respond to the unfair competition between ships flying and the ferry, as the SEEN accuses you? In Article 124, will you answer why the Transport Transport Council does not join the Island Policy Council? In Articles 106, 109 and 128, will you answer why, with one hand, legislation is tightened, supposedly to protect the environment from the rottens and with the other hand relax it? Will you answer how it is possible for the ship control industry to be bad for the inspection of classification societies and incapable of controlling ships? If you wish, Minister, to have a debate on the substance, as you have said, answer what we ask you and leave the suggestions. We have come here with good will to discuss a bill which, as I have said several times, solves problems in many respects. We will not, however, sit down and listen to monologues, unrelated to the bill, just to cover the lack of policy at the Ministry of Shipping in recent years. To finish with Mr Diamandides' notorious ministerial decision, which you constantly call upon, we will once again inform you that the truth is completely different. Under the 2003 Ministerial Decision, very small vessels located in the region were allowed to be inspected either by local stages of port authorities inspection or by classification societies, decentralising the relevant service, without removing the possibility of inspections by the ship control sector for all other ships. That's true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u485	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u486	Mr President, I would like the floor for a legal improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u487	You have the floor, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u488	In Article 79, the first and second subparagraphs of paragraph 2, the date 31-12-2017 is replaced by the date 31-1-2018.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u489	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Panayotarus has asked for a second. He wants the floor, and Mr. Kouzilos wants the floor. You both want to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u490	Yeah. Both of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u491	Here, Mr. Kouzeli, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u492	I would like to make a correction about what you said, Mr Santorinier. The federation on 2-11-2017 in her memorandum told her to withdraw the articles of Chapters I and III, mainly Chapter III...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u493	For the 2-3-2017. He's talking about that date.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u494	It is precisely because, at the time, there was still no change of federation and the previous administration had other views. I think you know them from within and from within what is happening and what is happening and what is the problem that has arisen in the federation at the moment, so that we do not analyse this particular issue any more.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u495	Can I answer that for a second?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u496	As much as you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u497	One is a conference decision and the other is an opinion of the Chair. What you're saying is a president's opinion. He hasn't even been through a federation board.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u498	Yeah, but Mr. Drivakos right now represents the whole federation. That's it. As far as I know, there was another regime at that time, some other people, who do not exist at the moment, and there are some other developments with the specific persons we are talking about at the moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u499	Yes, but it was a conference, Mr. Comrade. It wasn't the administration that didn't even call the board.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u500	I don't see that it was a conference, Mr. Kurubli. I don't oppose what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u501	Mr Kuzellis, make your speech, because it will evolve into a debate now. Say what you want to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u502	You were very specific, Minister. I'm too specific for the federation. As we speak, the federation has an administration, it has given its proposals on 2-11-2017, and that is the case. Now, with regard to the proposal on illegal immigration you said, Mr Kurubli, we have tabled a proposal for a law. We've got her here with us. We have tabled a specific proposal for a law to combat illegal immigration and everything else that can be done. Whenever you want we can discuss and what else can be done on the issues of the Aegean and the Port Authority. We have specific proposals for everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u503	Thank you, Mr. Kuzey. Mr. Panayotus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u504	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President-in-Office, Mr Kouzis has tabled to you in the Minutes the proposal for a law that we have made to combat illegal immigration. In addition to the proposals, however, to implement a number of proposals, there must also be a will. There are countries which belong and are members of the European Union and do not have an illegal immigrant. They may not be entry countries some. Of course, Bulgaria is also a country of entry and we see this oxymotor: some illegal immigrants entering Greece via Bulgaria because they know that in Bulgaria they are not going to find all the benefits they have in Greece and which you and most Greek Members have voted for. Things are very simple. There is a desire to exist and solutions exist. At the moment, your policy has led to an impasse for the inhabitants of Lesvos, the islands of the northeastern Aegean and various regions of Athens and Attica and elsewhere. You are currently trapped in a vicious cycle of iniquity from non-governmental organisations, which are the only ones who drown them, Minister, why did you say before to our speaker: 'What are you going to do? Will you drown them?’ We haven't said anything like that and they're drowning them in the altar of money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u505	Thank you, Mr. Panayotare. Mrs Manolakou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u506	It does not seem to us that you have accepted the JRC's amendment, because only the JRC's proposal can put an obstacle to the payment of accruals and allowances by shipowners and employers in general, including seafarers, without the expiry date in 2022. We are now asking for wages and allowances to be paid to the seafarers and workers of the 'NEL' shipping company and all other shipping companies. With regard to the current process for the bill, the government shows that it wants to fade, not to hear the responsibilities it has but to learn the ways and methods it protects and promotes what is best and what the shipowners have. Even for the payment of recruits you do not fully guarantee the beneficiaries, because you have a last paragraph - the fifth in Article 3 - which, in fact, will also receive the subsidy and, if they do not pay, there is no penalty. As regards the one hundred and fourteen pages amendment, I would like to say that it is a challenge. It corresponds to a whole bill, which must be called upon by bodies, to give their opinion. You bring it into the throw of an eye, not only to read it, but also to be placed. What are you afraid of? The revelations that are provoking you continue with the second amendment of twenty-two pages? It's unacceptable. The articles are obscure. It's challenging. Do you give 600 euros a year to students to cover their food? How do you treat these young people? Like beggars. You put IT, which through its illegitimate conventions takes out the people of the shipowners to determine the representatives for the tours of the primary unions. To say what? How well do seafarers exploit? What do you want? You want to place out of class clubs. It won't pass you. The ties between seafarers and the class movement and the JRC are very strong. But let the world know who you're promoting. WNO, the one that will have both the right and the bogeyman of the urban state and the European Union, of course, with the funding of the shipowners themselves, so that the Greek sectoral collective agreement for all seafarers does not apply. Good for you. Of course, with tips from shipowners at the KESEN and AEN, you cannot cover the ignorance of a situation in maritime education, or the wild exploitation of students and seamen from the shipowners' capital, because this is what you are proposing in the last ministerial amendment, which you have tabled to only five. But we are telling you clearly: we are not going to become an accomplice, we are going to abstain from voting for these amendments, and we denounce you for that. But your authoritarianism has no limits outside the House. Even at the junky and degenerated conference of the IMO today, a few hours ago, you made an outrageous intervention against class unions. Together, Government, shipowners, Ministry of Shipping, to protect the subordinated and influential trade unionists of WNO, servants of your anti-population policy and shipowners. Yes, you went with suppressive forces to form the connections to the trade union movement. Shame on you! It's never happened before. We denounce you of the raw intervention but also of the statement from the PAMM to know that authoritarianism and repression are taking place in hug with the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u507	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Dannelis has the floor for his dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u508	Thank you, Mr President. I would just like to say two words on the amendments. We shall vote on some of the amendments tabled by colleagues, such as those by my fellow Members, Mrs Camaterou, who improve the provisions of the bill, as well as some of the amendments tabled by my fellow Members, Mr Dragon and others. We cannot, however, vote for the multimodal approach, which is essentially a second, parallel draft law. It is a pity, Minister, because, at first glance, many of them could join you, but it is impossible to accept this methodology. I imagine you realize that there is no excuse, because we are now discussing this bill with such interesting provisions. It's a plan, like we said. These amendments to this second parallel draft law could have been incorporated, followed by the normal procedure, taken into account, and can be placed as they deserve. Unfortunately, that's not how work can be done. I imagine you understand that. I do not understand why this was done, because on the same day, after you prepared the multimodality, in order to make it possible to vote on it, why didn't you include it in the bill? Perhaps it would be worth bringing in a second bill next week. It would be worth more than that, because some of them at first glance - I say again - are provisions on serious issues, which improve a reality that is difficult and that is why you are also unfair to us. Unfortunately, we cannot vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u509	Thank you, Mr. Dannelly. Mr. Dritsa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u510	First of all, I understand the Members' objections to the fact that some of the amendments, which have many articles, have been retarded. But that has already been discussed. The Minister asked for understanding. It is not enough to understand and he himself agreed to go for tomorrow, as I recommended. It seems, however, that there is no consensus, which is why we are going to finish the process today. But they are amendments, and I have said so earlier, which most of them are issues which have been pending for a long time. They have generally been discussed as necessities both with the unions and with the institutions and with everyone. They know a little - very much - the representatives of the parties involved in shipping that these issues are pending, such as the establishment of the KESEN Macedonia. I had announced it, when I was Minister, the founding of KESEN Macedonia. It's well known. The Oinoussa School or the feeding. Okay, six hundred euros...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u511	Two minutes, Mrs Manolakou. This amount was secured after many years of dismantling. Say hello to it as a step and we'll go further. Also, many other things: the performance in the Municipality of Perama, in the Municipality of Piraeus, in the Municipality of Keratini - Drapetsonas of the areas left out of the concession of the Port of Piraeus and much more. These are well-known topics as a whole, they are not new. What I want to end is to highlight a few other things that have not been given the opportunity, precisely because of the time, which are virtues of this bill. The end of recreational and diary ships, for which a debate took place in Article 85, is also supplemented by Article 99 with the activation of the Register of Tourist Ships and Small Vessels. The fact that it lasted so long to be because it turned out to be a very difficult case. Indeed, the wording of the article is such that it is a step-by-step approach. I think that the withdrawal of ships is best done and what Mr Plakkatakis said does not apply. It's not true. It's the wrong point. Article 92, which refers to the Pilot Office, is one of the most developmental measures in this bill. The navigators and navigators become sixty - one of forty - five, the navigators of the navigators thirty - five of twenty - seven, the navigators of the navigators thirty - four of three, the symphonies twenty - four of fifteen. The road is finally opening - I think that in the next phase this will be possible - for the establishment of new navigating stations, which are needed everywhere, for the construction of navigators. There's the capital. Maybe this thing can move on. Of course, it's another policy. Because the policy of the New Democracy and PASOK during the previous period was to end it. That's well known. This is a neural service for every port, extremely profitable and developmental. From there on, health workers in the Port Body, dentists and psychologists are also important issues. As far as the protection of unpaid seafarers is concerned, Mrs Manolakou, I can understand what your amendment may seek, however, to a certain extent. Because this article regulates salaries, allowances and insurance contributions. What does it mean 'the total remuneration'? These are the basic earnings for each worker. If there's any more pay, that's a mess. Maybe it's for the captain, not for everyone else. Maybe it's for the chariot, not for everyone else. Bonus or I don't know what else. These cannot be regulated. When, then, we have a regulation which so well guarantees seafaring in this matter, can we not say that it is nothing, only if we accept the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u512	We did not say 'nothing'. We said 'the present'. Half a job.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u513	The provisions of Article 103 on seafarers are also a very important development. Prohibitions on employment in Articles 109 and 113 for any person, whether port or politician, who is leaving, whether retired or for another reason, to companies with whom he had traded as an employee under contracts, with one or the other, entails not being able to work there. Is it not a transparent and very proper approach to this? Is the use of civilian personnel at foreign positions, the Permanent Representation or elsewhere not a very good step? As far as Rule 116 is concerned, 12 hours ago, no, Mr Plakkatakis. You told the committee. Until now it is only a duty to inform the Customs Office, not the Port Authority, and not 12 hours ago and without the area in which it can really control it. Do we understand what we're doing here? If he hasn't informed, he doesn't make a stone. If he does, he's illegal, with very important consequences and consequences. I would also like to mention Articles 21 and 25, with regard to personal radiopharmaceuticals, as well as disciplinary control, which are also being discussed. But rules also set here, and there is a discipline regulation. What safeguards this bill for the strains of the Port Body is that it gives them rights. He doesn't leave them in the subjective judgment of the supervisor. It builds a frame, which everyone can use. The rights to exercise must be regulated by law, so that everyone can exercise them, not just by the general provision of the Constitution. As far as the Port Authority is concerned, the concession procedure is now complete. This is the first time that our government has taken this issue seriously. And Venizelos had given them, and Lover had given them, and Varvitsiotis had given them. A bubble! Just ministerial decisions, without any legal objections. Monthly work to return these land to Patras. Twenty-year-old games! It's a number of other issues, I've abused time. I'll finish with a comment. How can we speak, even now, that it is the Minister's decision to transfer? It is a law that lays down rules, on which objective criteria, on which social criteria, on which service criteria, on which criteria of locality and so on. All the executives have it. What does the law say? How do you make the transfer? On the basis of these and the decrees to be followed, the Transition Councils will draw up the tables. From where and how dare he dares not to validate the tables if the legal procedure has been respected? How can Mr Varvitsiotis, who has served as Minister for Maritime Affairs, say that this will affect the Minister? But does Greece not know all the role played by the ministers of the New Democracy, the PASOK, etc., in the Port House over the years and how this changed radically? From the first moment we gave the Chief, the Deputy Chiefs, the Staff, autonomy to operate on their own decision. I said to them: 'Do not argue with me and only then will you be worth it!' I do not understand, in other words, how Mr Varvitsiotis can dare, with his experience, to be so aggressive in such things. I shall conclude, Mr President. Excuse me, but the whole bill - some may prove wrong, some may prove incomplete, something might not have been predicted - is authentic. It arises not from transactions, services, lobbis logics or anything else. It results from the study of the data, the evolution of the data, the exhaustive discussion on all sides and finally the development, on the basis of the Greek legal framework, of the best possible solutions, in the judgement of the Minister. This bill is authentic, in most areas it attempts and does. It's no accident. How, then, can the criticism be of this type? I'm done. Even if the Port House needs to increase the roof of its powers, there is no longer any more, since it has been cut horizontally by the memorandum options, due to the empty organic positions and the possibility of using new potential has been weakened. There is no other way at this time from the creation of a tool that will objectively prove that more staff are needed and in which sectors and sectors these executives need. This will give it the system of the "structural power" which establishes this bill, for the first time, in the Port House. And it makes it modern, it makes it organized, it makes it dynamic and transparent. Based on the structure of forces, this tool can really be used to increase the ceiling and increase the organic positions that have now been cut horizontally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u514	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty students and students and three educational attendants from the 4th Polychni of Thessaloniki (first Chamber). The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u515	Mr President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds, because I was accuseed a moment ago by Mr Dritsa that I am responsible for thousands of rumours.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u516	I didn't say that, but if that's what Mr. Varvitsiotis understood,
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u517	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u518	However, on your part and on the part of Mr. Kourublis in the Port House, the biggest retirements were carried out, the biggest scalpel fell to the extent of the master, in order to select the brother of the Secretary-General of the Independent Greeks as admiral and to reach the point. A few weeks ago, we all read in the press the previous retirements after "AYIA ZONI" and the notes that were circulating, with the result that all the associations of officers and ports denounce Mr. Kourublis. So don't talk. Do not speak because you are unfortunately reintroducing the evil party state of the past, for which the Greek people have paid too much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u519	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u520	You have the floor, but don't ping pong.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u521	Mr President, I have been very careful. I commented on Mr Varvitsiotis' comment and not on him, precisely because I do not want to go on and do not want to make personal attacks on anyone, and I look forward to it as much as I can. But I will tell Mr Varvitsiotis, speaking through the House and to the representatives of the Port House. What Mr Varvitsiotis referred to was done during my term of office. There is no such gray area for the crises and promotions in the leadership of this House. Not only is there not because I say it - it can be said that I am acting - but precisely because SYRIZA has never had its own people in the sense that New Democracy and later PASOK has. That's why we forgot from the first day we entered the Ministry who are ours and who are not, and that was appreciated. Retired undersecretary told me "I regret leaving, but I very much appreciate the fact that the time that I stayed in your term of office felt more decent to myself and to my family than I had throughout my entire term of office in this House for thirty years". These are issues that we need to take care of. If you want us to come back to your times, I will resist.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u522	That's what we turn around, your bill turns around.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u523	Mr. Plackotakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u524	Minister, you have often accused us of not reading the bill, that we do not know its provisions, and that this bill is a serious section - Mr Dritsas said so - on shipping issues. What exactly are you doing, Mr. Curublis? Since you are arranged for small projects in the ports, do you think this is a serious intersection in the maritime sector? I explained to you five key areas in which you were supposed to have already intervened. Even when the sad incident occurred in the Saronic, you were in London and were supposed to attract shipping activities. Has anything been captured in the bill and I haven't seen it? Because we are talking about Saronic, your responsibilities, Mr Kurubli, are personally criminal. Because you're happy here to tell us that the measurements of ERCE find all the beaches very clear - that's what you said, Mr. Undersecretary, if I'm not mistaken? - you did not say, however, that the checks of the PPE have not yet been completed and that studies on the bottom will be required, studies on marine organisms, to inform the public at last. Because in these matters you must be extremely serious. One day Mr. Kourublis said that you can go for a bath and the next day the Minister of Health was getting a directive that we can't finally go for a bath. So you should be particularly careful in these matters. How has now emerged in the transformation of the Commercial Ship Inspection Branch? Because of the shipwreck it took place and, overnight, the Prime Minister's decision was taken over by the industry to the classification societies. I told you, you have not guaranteed the network which, before, through the local centres of the Port House, was not clearly identified through this bill, how much small fishing boats, boats and, of course, a large number of ships were used until now by the Maritime Inspection Division. I told you, Minister, that the upgrading of the Commercial Ship Inspection Branch existed beforehand. A comprehensive study on this issue was submitted and the bill was ready for the last two and a half years. But what did you do? You filed it incompletely. There are no flag State inspectors within this bill. Why? Can you explain why? I ask you, and I want you to answer me: If the specific competence of transporting from the Commercial Ship Inspectorate to the classification societies does not work, what will you do? Will he return to the Commercial Vessel Inspection Branch? But there won't be any inspectors. So, do you see that everything you're doing is too rough? Mr Kurublis, I have told you many times that the Minister has absolutely no competence to sign transfers, secondments, to ratify, as you wish. Do you know and doesn't the Captain of the Port Corps know the needs at staff level? Can you assess the operational needs of the Port Body? These respects at last to the representatives of the Port Corps! Have you seen this before?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u525	The Council of State does so.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u526	That is the respect, the representatives of the Port Authority will be judged. That's not all that's going to do. You are also divided among the representatives of the Port Authority, when military service is recognised for pension years and promotions. Minister, military service is not a job. Military service is an offer at home, without a reward. At this time around 40% of the people of the Port Body are women. They're listening and seeing you right now. At this point, you have divided the staff of the Port House, and of course you have also tried to interfere with the trade union's internal bodies. This is my democratic sensitivity and your behaviour. Of course, you brought your pleasures to the committee to create a problem within the trade union. In addition, I would like to say to you, because you mentioned very much Mr Stellito, the President of professional pleasure boats, that all your bodies have told you to abolish - to get it back - the specific fee and where this fee has been applied internationally has had catastrophic results. But I told you that, when we introduced it, it would work with the logic of the register, which you bring here after three years. That is your personal logic and strategy. You've reinstated the luxury tax, you've increased the VAT. That is what you have done and you are now coming to tell us that all operators of tourism want this particular end. I ask you: a lot of talk has been made about business pleasure boats. Do you know that 75% of ships are private? You don't want the private stuff? Answer me that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u527	To be heard by people of tourism.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u528	Everyone's gonna hear it. They've heard of them. As far as the age of ships is concerned, how did this come about? Obviously also because of a shipwreck. Why conclusion, Mr. Kurubli, do we have for Saronic? Was it the age of the sinking ship? Yeah, watch out, when did he get down? Under conditions ideal, in the heart of Piraeus, without conflict. Was there any conflict, and we didn't get it? Is there an invasion?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u529	Where?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u530	To the Saronic. The president assured you of diplomacy engineers that, on the basis of statistics, the sinking of a ship is 90% due to human error. So when the aircraft of a ship is maintained, which is normally maintained under European, international and clearly national conditions, why are you taking exactly this measure? How will market needs be met? Have you done an impact study on this measure, or are you not interested in the market? Obviously, you don't care. Will these needs be met? I shall conclude, Mr President. Of course, we also had the amazing thing from Mr. Kourublis that all the ships of the Port House will be built here in Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u531	You don't want it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u532	Mr. Curublis, these are magical things you say, pirouettes. Community funds from one...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u533	The competition is international.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u534	That's right. Community funds, international competition and compulsory construction in Greece do not take place. I have told you that this can only be done if the ships from the Port Authority can be financed from the Public Investment Programme. These things can't be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u535	We'll see. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u536	I'm not nervous. You get nervous. Did you include the last one in the contest? No, of course not. That's what we're talking about, so it's time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u537	The competitions will become international as they should.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u538	I'll be done. I told you that before the fire there was an obligation to inform the port and customs authorities.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u539	Where did you see that? Can you tell me the order?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u540	Do you really think there is a gap of provisions or a lack of controls? The non-disclosure is responsible for the transparency of the oil tanks.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u541	You, who are read, can tell me which arrangement says that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u542	And you will now tell me how many checks you have done. Can you tell us?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u543	Don't mess with me. You'll be caught undetected.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u544	Mr. Curublis, you've been at the Ministry for a year and you think you know everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u545	Let others judge what I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u546	Let us first tell you about your account of the fourteen objectives in the maritime sector and then let us talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u547	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u548	As far as the amendments are concerned, what can we discuss? Even the multimodalology which has been submitted contains articles which are of a customer nature and, above all, regularizations.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u549	What's the clientele?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u550	It also includes the establishment of a KESEN School in Engineering and the School of Societal and Fire-fighting Instruments in Onousses. But here too, there is no financial control. No study has been done. We're just recording it just to pet the ears of local societies. Mr Kourublis, I told you about your legislation that "the treasure is a coal". 'Carbon', Mr Kurubili. The New Democracy, obviously, will change many of the provisions of this legislation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u551	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Ministers, who would want to take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u552	I, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u553	You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u554	Mr President, I have listened very carefully to all my colleagues. We have tried to make all the comments that really complemented this draft law, in any way we could, either with amendments or with legislative improvements, improve it. Because there is really going to be a piece of legislation that life itself, I am sure, will confirm the fertile, painful effort that we have made over the past three years and Mr. Dritsas and I have done. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, because I listen to this all the time, is it a good minister that keeps bringing laws? Is that the perception you have? That is why Greece is the best industry in the world to produce laws. That's what all this orgy is about, covering me up, confusing me. Is that what this is about? We worked and we heard. All service actors and institutions know that. We also listened to the House with great attention and filled a great deal with it. For what we heard where he could help, we had the doors and windows of our mental field open. Ladies and gentlemen, you have asked me many questions about the results of the conclusion on the submersion of 'Athens ZONI II'. You want me to intervene in the D.A.? Is it possible to put it to me when you know the whole case is being investigated by the Piraeus Prosecutor? Tell me how sensible it is that you say and, indeed, with a steep. "You have not answered our questions. What happened? How did it happen?’ There is research in progress, as soon as it is completed and delivered to us, I undertake to inform the relevant committee of Parliament and the House and what is needed. Do we have any reason not to do this? Ladies and gentlemen, you are lurking in an accident. It is shameful to charge an accident to a man who even gave the orders he had to give. For on the one hand, you are crying for the Port House and on the other hand, you are ignoring that, on the basis of Decree 11, the implementation of the planning of such a crisis has only the Port House. What was I supposed to do? Should I have told the port not to act what it had to do? What do you mean, or insinuate?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u555	You took responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u556	From 3:00 a.m. at dawn, called by the Chief, I gave him an order. He's here to say it. From the first moment we spoke to him I said "you will be in charge of all the effort". What else would the Minister do? Would I go pick up the oil? You've fallen upon me, gods and demons, asking for my resignation. Ladies and gentlemen, there was a contributor station that did an investigation through the University of Thessaloniki. So he also asked a question - since you are causing me - if the Minister had to resign, waiting for 85% of the world to say'retire'. You all hid that. You don't want to remember what the world said. Ladies and gentlemen, you will be ashamed to say at some point what I did in London. Because I don't go on trips to London, like you used to go before, for walks. The shipping community knows what I did in London. If you don't know, take the committee of London, the Greek shipowners, take Mr. Chaco, take the old Chaco and other people, the Old Man to tell you what I did in London, since you're still wondering. When February comes, because I'm committed to not talking about what they said to me, we'll see what I did in London. Be patient. Ladies and gentlemen, because we generally like to be self-sufficient as a people, we never had the courage to say that this accident took place. The reasons we'll find them. What did the government and the ministry collectively do, and the physical and political leadership? He did something that really is impressive. The quality of the work that has been done in the area of detergents and the record time that ends these days has been confirmed - to hear it from the Greek people - by those who, as a condition to pay, say that you have to do everything possible to achieve detergents. So the international chapter on decontamination has been notified from the start. In fact, Mr Mitsotakis came to committee, thinking that I was there, I don't know where, to tell me about the international chapter on detergents. Already the international capital that day was in Greece, from the second day of the accident. International capital is coming and says Greece has done the right thing and has approved 51 million euros. What do you think? Did he do it for SYRIZA, Tsipra or Kurubli? I'm asking you. Greece has been in this institution for 15 years. Did you ever bring it or have there ever been such problems in Greece? Let's say that particular ship that sunk into Elefsina Bay...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u557	Such pollution has never happened before.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u558	You're not a reader again. The pollution was twenty-five miles [20 km], the coastline caught that pollution. I'm catching you intact again. I told you, don't mess with me. Now a desk was created and he's taking over all the expenses. The Greek state will not pay a single euro. This is where the last speaker did not know, I will not now say his name, that all the materials used in the warehouse were used. But do not remind me of what you did in 2005 and what materials you took with intervention from the royal house of Denmark, which was all useless. You want me to say that? Don't put me on. I want to say other things now. Ladies and gentlemen, you have spoken of smuggling. Yes, sir. So tell me, after you have said so twice in the House, what provision does it make for 12 hours before the port that will become stone, and I would ask you to apologise publicly, that I am indisputable. Tell me. It's an incision that's going on. Do you know what pressures, in various ways, were made to get this article back? If you want me to say that, and I'll tell you that we're not afraid of whatever it is in the port. We're not afraid. That's what I have to say. He meant. The age of the ships. So here, if you want me to tell you some things, I am giving you the regulation of the European Union, which says that, the larger a ship is, the more likely it is, an accident. I'm filing it in the Minutes of the House. [[At this point, the Minister Panagiotis Kourublis presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We said it started on 1 January, we did not take it back, despite what is said and shattered, because we want to ensure the best in the oil trade. This is a misunderstanding. People came here - but, you challenge me and I tell you to read it - and they tell the House that this will affect oil tankers. What does that have to do with anything? These are small ships, which make stones, fuel the rest of the ships in the wider area of Elefsina, Piraeus and some of PPC, which go to various islands. Ladies and gentlemen, I apologise because I never wanted to have to put this House in a difficult position on the subject of amendments. It was not one of the wicked, for none of them has such a content. There were objections from the institutions, and so we had to do so in order to move the bill forward, to get it out. We fought it, and we passed it. Not all of them. We had more. So you're not going to vote? Do you know what's going on in the Oinousses right now? Get your people to know. It celebrates the island because it will contribute to the development of the island. We gave a 600 euros allowance. It is not what we should give, but three years, four years, five years are afflicted by you, the feeding allowance for children. You tell us about the executives and that the port must strengthen it. How are we going to strengthen it? You've removed the vacant posts. Why don't you tell the Greek people? You've done away with the seats. How do we hire others? However, whatever room there was for retirement, Mr. Dritsas started it, and I completed it. We got almost three hundred people. There are provisions. Mr Athanasios came too, and I was expecting an understanding, because as a Member he was interested in paying unpaid workers to the NEL for four and five years, and the amendment solves it. Is it rhysphetological? I want to understand, in other words, how you're interpreting things. Ladies and gentlemen, I was raised by Mrs Karakosta. I believe that this crisis, which has been set up in WNO, must be tackled by the same ones with a deep, modernist reform, which will really give new impetus to an area which has a very important role to play in the maritime affairs of the country. Mr President, I would like to close by saying that this bill has proved to be in the debate and it will prove to life that it is a well-worked draft law which really gives solutions. It's practical. It's understandable. It's been over a lot of trouble that they've been there for years. I asked Mr. Plakkatakis well enough to tell me by 2015 how many ports we had made master plan, so that the Greek people could understand what was going to happen, how growth would take place. How will growth be? This is where he didn't know how many ports we have, how many bays, how many anchorages. Now all this has been recorded. He didn't know. It didn't have a situation with the Ministry. Now, for the equipment...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u559	The national port system has not been updated by you. What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u560	All right, let go of these now. Come to the Ministry tomorrow - and then go out and disprove me - to find me a piece of paper from what you have in your file, which proves that she had a situation with what I'm saying. I challenge you. You go out tomorrow and give it with protocol number, say it's the same, and then this has been recorded. And I'll apologize again. I have the bravery to recognize my mistakes. As far as equipment is concerned, look, do not discuss this matter again, because, I told you, if I number what you were buying and what money were then paid for repairs, because you had not even anticipated maintenance work, you will understand. You will see, then, the competitions that we will make, what obligations they will impose. And then we'll talk. On whether we can do it in Greece, look, smart people are not only in Europe, there are also in Greece. You know very well that Europe, when it wants to support the productive activity of each country, finds ways, just as long as it wants to. When he doesn't want to, he's cursing around. So when we proceed to this work, you can come and tell me whether what I said in the House was worthy or whether I was flying on. Then come to the House and report to me, because what we're talking about is what we're talking about. We will support the country's production and we will find ways, because we have a desire to do so and we will do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u561	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Santorinier, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u562	For a while, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u563	Do you want to talk for five minutes, for eight minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u564	Seven minutes is enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u565	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u566	He asked a question, Mr. Plakkatakis, and it was right. He asked if the Minister would know the needs of the Port Corps and whether he would determine where each portman would go. It's a good question. But, Mr. Placiotakis, the Minister tells you that you probably haven't read the bill. Within the bill it is foreseen that the provision of forces for the first time will be made by the Executive Board and we will avoid removing the organic positions within one night, as was done in the morning of the year 2014.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u567	What does that have to do with anything? You don't know what you're saying! Will the Minister sign the last transfer of the port guard? You don't know what you're saying!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u568	Mr. Placiotakis, Mr.4256 provided that officers who did not complete their promotional qualifications could not be promoted even if they had reached the maximum degree of residence. We abolished this by prior legislation. Also, because you wanted to make the yearbook, because you wanted to keep some people low - and that is a given - to Mr.4256, you said that, to the extent of the commander, they should be three years at the head office, that is, those on the islands had no right to become commanders. Mr. Varvichiotis is leaving. Looks like he didn't want to hear what he voted for. Also, the same was true of captains. It had to be two years in a central office. Those on islands couldn't be captains. From that point on, because you told us about secondments and disposals, the status of permanent secondments is abolished. The secondments will be up to six months and the disposal for a very short time. We are finishing with the transfers that were not transferable, but dispositions, distractions and hiding them. With regard to fishing - has Mr Varvitsiotis and you, Mr Placiotakis - have you seen any fishing club complaining about the regulation of the CFP? Nobody. Did you see a memo, Mr. Placiotakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u569	Did you call them?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u570	Why didn't you call the agencies, if you know? You did not invite them because for small fishing there is a licence to run boats and it is explained in the explanatory statement that this regime will not be changed. For large fishing vessels, the so-called Torremolinos, there is care to be taken to be issued by the national classification societies to reduce costs. And most of the days, which you say, are being monitored for class by the large classification societies and you know very well that they can also obtain certificates of airworthiness at very low cost. So don't say things that don't apply. I'll go to the part of the Saronic. You're right. Monitoring of pollution must be completed, and measurements of bottom and measurements of benth. However, these are measurements which take time and I think that very soon the PPE - we have some good indications, but we cannot announce them, because the PPE has not yet announced them - will communicate them scientifically and documentedly. In fact, we are talking about having a conference and we invite you to come and see what the results are. We're not hiding anything from this story at all. I'm coming to two more issues. You said, Mr Arvanitides, that the regime for small projects in the ports is changing. It doesn't change, Mr. Arvanitides. What's the matter to this day? Up to 100 thousand euros and if the geometric shape of the port does not change, the project can be done by decision of the Secretary-General of Port and Port Policy. What do we change with the setting? That for small projects, up to EUR 20 000, which may be a lacquer, something which has a risk and which must be addressed at that time, it will not have to go to the Secretary-General of Port and Port Policy, but will be done by decision of the port fund concerned. What's the problem with this story?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u571	In what process?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u572	In accordance with the procedures laid down for such projects. Nobody brings any other procedures from the back door. Public works will continue to exist. The question is who will be adopted. That's a change.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u573	The maintenance?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u574	Maintenance also belongs to the Municipal Port Fund or the Port Agency. One last thing. Ms. Manolaku, I respect you want more than that. I also told you in committee that there are requirements that have been in judicial disputes for too many years. That is why we say: wages, allowances, insurance contributions. This is the total pay of a ship worker. That's what we're protecting. From there on, any other claims may be controversial. Today, Mrs Manolakou, how are these salaries, allowances and insurance contributions being protected? It's a step forward. I think you will be mistaken not to vote for the regulation because we have not accepted the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u575	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, we will take a ten-minute break to make the body of the bill ready.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u576	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, thirty-nine students and students and two teachers from the 4th Polychninis High School of Thessaloniki (second section). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy is adjourned: 'Terms of life of personnel from the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy, strengthening transparency and dignity in matters of the competence of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy, strengthening social participation in the coastline, matters of civil servants, supplementing provisions on port projects and other provisions'. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u577	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u578	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u579	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u580	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u581	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u582	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u583	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u584	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u585	Consequently, the Law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: ‘Timelong training of staff of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy, strengthening transparency and integrity in matters of competence of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy, strengthening social participation in the coastline, issues of civil servants, supplementing provisions on port projects and other provisions’ was accepted in principle by a majority. We are going to vote on the articles and they will be voted on separately. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u586	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u587	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u588	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u589	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u590	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u591	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u592	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u593	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u594	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u595	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u596	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u597	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u598	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u599	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u600	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u601	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u602	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u603	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u604	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u605	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u606	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u607	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u608	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u609	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u610	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u611	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u612	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u613	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u614	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u615	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u616	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u617	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u618	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u619	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u620	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u621	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 5 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u622	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u623	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u624	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u625	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u626	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u627	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u628	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u629	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u630	Article 5 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u631	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u632	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u633	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u634	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u635	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u636	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u637	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u638	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u639	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u640	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u641	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u642	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u643	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u644	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u645	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u646	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u647	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u648	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u649	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u650	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u651	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u652	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u653	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u654	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u655	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u656	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u657	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u658	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u659	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u660	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u661	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u662	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u663	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u664	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u665	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u666	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u667	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u668	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u669	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u670	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u671	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u672	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u673	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u674	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u675	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u676	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u677	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u678	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u679	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u680	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u681	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u682	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u683	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u684	Article 11 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u685	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u686	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u687	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u688	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u689	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u690	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u691	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u692	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u693	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does the House agree to Rule 13, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u694	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u695	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u696	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u697	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u698	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u699	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u700	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u701	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u702	Article 13 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u703	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u704	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u705	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u706	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u707	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u708	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u709	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u710	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u711	Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u712	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u713	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u714	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u715	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u716	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u717	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u718	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u719	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u720	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u721	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u722	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u723	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u724	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u725	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u726	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u727	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u728	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u729	Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u730	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u731	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u732	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u733	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u734	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u735	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u736	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u737	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u738	Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u739	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u740	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u741	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u742	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u743	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u744	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u745	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u746	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u747	Article 18 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u748	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u749	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u750	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u751	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u752	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u753	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u754	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u755	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u756	Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 20 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u757	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u758	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u759	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u760	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u761	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u762	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u763	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u764	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u765	Article 20 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 21 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u766	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u767	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u768	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u769	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u770	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u771	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u772	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u773	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u774	Article 21 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 22 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u775	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u776	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u777	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u778	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u779	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u780	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u781	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u782	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u783	Article 22 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 23 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u784	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u785	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u786	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u787	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u788	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u789	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u790	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u791	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u792	Article 23 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 24 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u793	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u794	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u795	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u796	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u797	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u798	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u799	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u800	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u801	Article 24 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 25 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u802	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u803	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u804	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u805	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u806	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u807	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u808	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u809	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u810	Article 25 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 26 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u811	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u812	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u813	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u814	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u815	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u816	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u817	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u818	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u819	Article 26 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 27 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u820	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u821	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u822	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u823	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u824	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u825	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u826	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u827	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u828	Article 27 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 28 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u829	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u830	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u831	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u832	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u833	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u834	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u835	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u836	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u837	Article 28 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 29 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u838	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u839	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u840	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u841	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u842	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u843	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u844	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u845	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u846	Article 29 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 30 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u847	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u848	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u849	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u850	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u851	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u852	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u853	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u854	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u855	Article 30 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 31 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u856	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u857	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u858	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u859	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u860	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u861	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u862	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u863	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u864	Article 31 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 32 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u865	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u866	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u867	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u868	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u869	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u870	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u871	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u872	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u873	Article 32 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 33 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u874	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u875	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u876	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u877	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u878	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u879	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u880	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u881	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u882	Article 33 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 34 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u883	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u884	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u885	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u886	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u887	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u888	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u889	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u890	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u891	Article 34 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 35 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u892	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u893	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u894	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u895	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u896	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u897	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u898	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u899	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u900	Article 35 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 36 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u901	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u902	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u903	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u904	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u905	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u906	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u907	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u908	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u909	Article 36 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 37 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u910	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u911	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u912	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u913	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u914	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u915	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u916	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u917	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u918	Article 37 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 38 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u919	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u920	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u921	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u922	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u923	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u924	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u925	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u926	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u927	Article 38 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 39 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u928	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u929	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u930	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u931	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u932	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u933	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u934	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u935	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u936	Article 39 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 40 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u937	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u938	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u939	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u940	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u941	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u942	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u943	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u944	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u945	Article 40 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 41 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u946	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u947	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u948	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u949	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u950	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u951	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u952	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u953	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u954	Article 41 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 42 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u955	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u956	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u957	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u958	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u959	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u960	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u961	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u962	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u963	Article 42 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 43 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u964	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u965	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u966	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u967	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u968	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u969	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u970	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u971	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u972	Article 43 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 44 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u973	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u974	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u975	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u976	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u977	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u978	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u979	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u980	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u981	Article 44 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 45 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u982	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u983	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u984	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u985	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u986	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u987	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u988	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u989	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u990	Article 45 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 46 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u991	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u992	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u993	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u994	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u995	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u996	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u997	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u998	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u999	Article 46 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 47 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1000	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1001	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1002	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1003	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1004	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1005	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1006	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1007	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1008	Article 47 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 48 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1009	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1010	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1011	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1012	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1013	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1014	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1015	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1016	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1017	Article 48 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 49 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1018	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1019	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1020	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1021	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1022	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1023	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1024	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1025	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1026	Article 49 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 50 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1027	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1028	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1029	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1030	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1031	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1032	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1033	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1034	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1035	Article 50 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Will Rule 51 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1036	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1037	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1038	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1039	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1040	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1041	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1042	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1043	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1044	Article 51 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 52 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1045	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1046	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1047	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1048	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1049	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1050	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1051	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1052	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1053	Article 52 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 53 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1054	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1055	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1056	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1057	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1058	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1059	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1060	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1061	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1062	Article 53 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 54 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1063	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1064	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1065	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1066	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1067	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1068	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1069	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1070	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1071	Article 54 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 55 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1072	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1073	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1074	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1075	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1076	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1077	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1078	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1079	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1080	Article 55 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 56 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1081	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1082	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1083	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1084	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1085	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1086	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1087	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1088	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1089	Article 56 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 57 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1090	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1091	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1092	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1093	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1094	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1095	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1096	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1097	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1098	Article 57 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 58 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1099	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1100	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1101	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1102	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1103	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1104	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1105	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1106	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1107	Article 58 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 59 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1108	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1109	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1110	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1111	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1112	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1113	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1114	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1115	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1116	Article 59 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 60 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1117	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1118	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1119	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1120	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1121	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1122	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1123	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1124	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1125	Article 60 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 61 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1126	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1127	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1128	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1129	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1130	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1131	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1132	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1133	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1134	Article 61 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 62 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1135	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1136	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1137	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1138	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1139	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1140	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1141	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1142	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1143	Article 62 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 63 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1144	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1145	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1146	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1147	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1148	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1149	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1150	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1151	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1152	Article 63 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 64 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1153	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1154	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1155	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1156	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1157	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1158	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1159	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1160	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1161	Article 64 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 65 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1162	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1163	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1164	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1165	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1166	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1167	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1168	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1169	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1170	Article 65 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 66 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1171	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1172	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1173	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1174	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1175	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1176	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1177	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1178	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1179	Article 66 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 67 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1180	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1181	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1182	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1183	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1184	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1185	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1186	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1187	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1188	Article 67 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 68 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1189	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1190	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1191	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1192	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1193	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1194	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1195	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1196	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1197	Article 68 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 69 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1198	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1199	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1200	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1201	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1202	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1203	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1204	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1205	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1206	Article 69 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 70 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1207	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1208	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1209	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1210	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1211	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1212	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1213	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1214	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1215	Article 70 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 71 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1216	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1217	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1218	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1219	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1220	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1221	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1222	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1223	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1224	Article 71 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 72 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1225	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1226	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1227	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1228	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1229	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1230	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1231	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1232	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1233	Article 72 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 73 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1234	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1235	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1236	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1237	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1238	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1239	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1240	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1241	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1242	Article 73 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 74 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1243	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1244	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1245	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1246	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1247	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1248	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1249	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1250	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1251	Article 74 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 75 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1252	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1253	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1254	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1255	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1256	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1257	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1258	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1259	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1260	Article 75 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 76 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1261	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1262	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1263	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1264	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1265	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1266	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1267	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1268	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1269	Article 76 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 77 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1270	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1271	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1272	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1273	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1274	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1275	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1276	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1277	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1278	Article 77 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 78 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1279	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1280	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1281	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1282	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1283	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1284	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1285	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1286	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1287	Article 78 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 79 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1288	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1289	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1290	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1291	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1292	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1293	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1294	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1295	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1296	Article 79 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 80 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1297	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1298	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1299	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1300	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1301	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1302	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1303	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1304	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1305	Article 80 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 81 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1306	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1307	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1308	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1309	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1310	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1311	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1312	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1313	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1314	Article 81 was therefore accepted as majority. Will Rule 82 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1315	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1316	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1317	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1318	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1319	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1320	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1321	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1322	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1323	Article 82 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 83 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1324	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1325	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1326	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1327	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1328	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1329	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1330	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1331	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1332	Article 83 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 84 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1333	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1334	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1335	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1336	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1337	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1338	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1339	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1340	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1341	Article 84 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 85 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1342	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1343	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1344	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1345	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1346	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1347	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1348	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1349	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1350	Article 85 was therefore accepted as majority. Will Rule 86 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1351	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1352	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1353	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1354	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1355	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1356	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1357	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1358	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1359	Article 86 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 87 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1360	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1361	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1362	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1363	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1364	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1365	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1366	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1367	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1368	Article 87 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 88 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1369	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1370	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1371	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1372	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1373	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1374	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1375	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1376	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1377	Article 88 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 89 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1378	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1379	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1380	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1381	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1382	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1383	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1384	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1385	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1386	Article 89 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 90 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1387	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1388	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1389	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1390	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1391	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1392	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1393	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1394	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1395	Article 90 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 91 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1396	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1397	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1398	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1399	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1400	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1401	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1402	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1403	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1404	Article 91 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 92 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1405	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1406	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1407	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1408	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1409	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1410	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1411	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1412	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1413	Article 92 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 93 as such be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1414	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1415	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1416	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1417	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1418	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1419	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1420	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1421	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1422	Article 93 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 94 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1423	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1424	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1425	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1426	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1427	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1428	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1429	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1430	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1431	Article 94 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 95 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1432	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1433	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1434	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1435	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1436	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1437	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1438	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1439	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1440	Article 95 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 96 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1441	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1442	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1443	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1444	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1445	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1446	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1447	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1448	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1449	Article 96 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 97 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1450	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1451	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1452	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1453	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1454	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1455	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1456	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1457	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1458	Article 97 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 98 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1459	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1460	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1461	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1462	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1463	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1464	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1465	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1466	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1467	Article 98 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 99 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1468	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1469	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1470	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1471	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1472	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1473	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1474	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1475	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1476	Article 99 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 100 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1477	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1478	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1479	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1480	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1481	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1482	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1483	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1484	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1485	Article 100 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 101 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1486	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1487	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1488	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1489	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1490	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1491	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1492	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1493	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1494	Article 101 was therefore accepted as a majority. Can Rule 102, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1495	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1496	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1497	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1498	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1499	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1500	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1501	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1502	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1503	Article 102 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 103 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1504	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1505	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1506	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1507	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1508	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1509	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1510	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1511	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1512	Article 103 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 104 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1513	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1514	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1515	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1516	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1517	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1518	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1519	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1520	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1521	Article 104 was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Will Rule 105 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1522	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1523	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1524	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1525	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1526	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1527	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1528	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1529	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1530	Article 105 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 106 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1531	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1532	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1533	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1534	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1535	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1536	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1537	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1538	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1539	Article 106 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 107 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1540	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1541	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1542	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1543	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1544	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1545	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1546	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1547	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1548	Article 107 was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Will Rule 108 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1549	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1550	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1551	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1552	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1553	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1554	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1555	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1556	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1557	Article 108 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 109 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1558	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1559	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1560	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1561	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1562	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1563	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1564	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1565	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1566	Article 109 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 110 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1567	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1568	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1569	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1570	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1571	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1572	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1573	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1574	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1575	Article 110 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 111 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1576	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1577	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1578	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1579	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1580	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1581	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1582	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1583	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1584	Article 111 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 112 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1585	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1586	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1587	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1588	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1589	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1590	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1591	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1592	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1593	Article 112 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 113 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1594	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1595	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1596	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1597	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1598	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1599	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1600	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1601	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1602	Article 113 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 114, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1603	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1604	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1605	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1606	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1607	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1608	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1609	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1610	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1611	Article 114 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 115 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1612	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1613	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1614	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1615	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1616	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1617	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1618	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1619	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1620	Article 115 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 116 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1621	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1622	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1623	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1624	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1625	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1626	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1627	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1628	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1629	Article 116 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 117 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1630	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1631	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1632	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1633	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1634	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1635	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1636	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1637	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1638	Article 117 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 118 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1639	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1640	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1641	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1642	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1643	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1644	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1645	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1646	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1647	Article 118 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 119 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1648	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1649	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1650	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1651	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1652	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1653	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1654	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1655	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1656	Article 119 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 120 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1657	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1658	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1659	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1660	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1661	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1662	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1663	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1664	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1665	Article 120 has therefore been accepted as majority. Can Rule 121, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1666	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1667	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1668	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1669	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1670	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1671	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1672	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1673	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1674	Article 121 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 122 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1675	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1676	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1677	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1678	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1679	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1680	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1681	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1682	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1683	Article 122 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 123 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1684	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1685	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1686	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1687	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1688	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1689	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1690	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1691	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1692	Article 123 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 124 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1693	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1694	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1695	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1696	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1697	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1698	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1699	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1700	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1701	Article 124 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 125 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1702	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1703	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1704	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1705	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1706	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1707	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1708	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1709	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1710	Article 125 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 126 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1711	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1712	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1713	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1714	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1715	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1716	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1717	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1718	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1719	Article 126 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 127 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1720	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1721	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1722	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1723	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1724	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1725	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1726	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1727	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1728	Article 127 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 128 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1729	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1730	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1731	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1732	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1733	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1734	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1735	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1736	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1737	Article 128 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 129 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1738	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1739	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1740	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1741	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1742	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1743	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1744	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1745	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1746	Article 129 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 130 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1747	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1748	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1749	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1750	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1751	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1752	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1753	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1754	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1755	Article 130 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 131 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1756	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1757	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1758	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1759	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1760	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1761	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1762	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1763	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1764	Article 131 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 132 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1765	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1766	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1767	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1768	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1769	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1770	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1771	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1772	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1773	Article 132 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 133 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1774	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1775	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1776	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1777	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1778	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1779	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1780	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1781	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1782	Article 133 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number of 1353 and a special number of 22 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1783	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1784	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1785	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1786	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1787	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1788	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1789	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1790	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1791	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1353 and a special 22 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number of 1356 and a specialist of 25?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1792	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1793	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1794	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1795	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1796	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1797	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1798	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1799	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1800	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1356 and a special 25 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number of 1357 and a special number of 26?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1801	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1802	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1803	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1804	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1805	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1806	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1807	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1808	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1809	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1357 and a special 26 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment with a general number of 1358 and a special number 27, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1810	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1811	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1812	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1813	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1814	We're off the ground.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1815	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1816	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1817	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1818	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1358 and a special 27 was accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same articles. Is the amendment accepted under a general number of 1361 and a specialist of 30?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1819	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1820	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1821	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1822	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1823	We're off the ground.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1824	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1825	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1826	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1827	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1361 and a specialist of 30 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same articles. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number of 1350 and a special number of 19 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1828	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1829	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1830	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1831	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1832	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1833	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1834	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1835	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1836	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1350 and a special 19 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same articles. Is the amendment accepted under a general number of 1351 and a special number of 20?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1837	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1838	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1839	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1840	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1841	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1842	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1843	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1844	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1845	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1351 and a special 20 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same articles. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number of 1359 and a special number of 28?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1846	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1847	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1848	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1849	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1850	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1851	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1852	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1853	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1854	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1359 and a special 28 was accepted as it is majority and is part of Article 96 of the draft law. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number of 1360 and a special number of 29?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1855	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1856	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1857	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1858	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1859	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1860	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1861	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1862	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1863	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1360 and a special 29 was accepted as it is majority and is part of Article 96 of the draft law. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1864	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1865	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1866	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1867	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1868	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1869	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1870	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1871	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1872	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the Legislation of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: ‘Timelong training of staff of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy, strengthening transparency and integrity in matters of competence of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy, strengthening social participation in the coastline, issues of civil servants, supplementing provisions on port projects and other provisions’ was accepted in principle and under Articles. We move on to vote on the bill and on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1873	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1874	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1875	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1876	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1877	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1878	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1879	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1880	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1881	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the Legislation of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: ‘Timelong training of staff of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy, strengthening transparency and integrity in matters of competence of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy, strengthening social participation in the coastline, matters of civil servants, supplementing provisions on port projects and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1882	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1883	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-23-S1-commons.u1884	With the consent of the House at 21.35" the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday 24 November 2017, at 10.00 p.m. (a) a reference on 25 November to the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, (b) a reference to 25 November as the day of celebration of the National Resistance and (c) parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent debate.
