ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval of 28-3-2017, the minutes of its meeting of Tuesday, 28 March 2017 were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau.]] Before entering the agenda, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers for Home Affairs, Foreign Affairs, Economic Affairs, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Migration and Immigration, and the Deputy Minister of Home Affairs tabled on 28-3-2017 a draft law: ‘Definition of an Implementation Protocol between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Russian Federation on the implementation of the Re-entry Agreement between the Russian Federation and the European Community of 25 May 2006’. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, I also have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question in this House on Thursday 30 March 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The timely question by MP Dodecanese of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ilia Kamaterou to the Minister of Finance about the OPCW contract with agents. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question by MP Halkidikis of New Democracy Mr. George Vagionas to the Minister of Economy and Development concerning the problems facing the bakers industry in Greece. 3. The current question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the recognition of professional rights of TEI graduates. 4. The question by No 647/24-3-2017 of the Athens MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panagiotarous to the Minister of Finance, on the legislative arrangement for extending approved expenses beyond hospitals. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 651/27-3-2017 by MP II Piraeus of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Irinis Kasimatis to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy on the completion of the performance of the exempted areas of the concession agreement between Greek State and PPA S.A. the municipalities of Piraeus Keratiniou - Drapetsonas, Perama, Salamis, as well as the Municipality of Piraeus. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question raised by Mr Andreas Katsaniotis on the delay in the procedures for the application of Subsection 6.1 ‘Installation of Young Farmers’. 3. The question asked by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The Government is preventing investment in the development of the former Greek airport." 4. The Question No 648/24-3-2017 by Evia MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Michou to the Minister of Health on the deliberate improper performance of a covenant that provides for the establishment of an oncological clinic in Chalkida. 5. The Question No 553/3-2017 by MP Heraklion of the New Democracy, Eleftherios Aygenakis to the Minister of the Interior, concerning the problem of road accidents, the strengthening of traffic education and the better implementation of the Road Traffic Code (CIS). 6. The Question No 556-6-3-2017 by Congressman of Athens, Mr. Georgios Amyras, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the taking over by the Greek State of the outstanding loan contract of the Athens Concert Hall (OMMA). 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question by No 430/31-1-2017 of the Greek Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Georgios Arvanitidis to the Minister of the Interior about the significant reduction of the Fire Force in the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki. 8. The question by No. 402/27-1-2017, by MEP I Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Health, concerning the reduction of the cost of diagnostic tests for breast cancer. 9. PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the reappointment of importers of higher education on the basis of academic and rational criteria. 10. PASOK - DIMAR Mr Andreas Loverdos to the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction on recruitment under the procedure referred to in Article 63 n.4430/2016. 11. The Question by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of the PASOK - DIMAR Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the unconstitutional and extra-academic criteria for the selection of candidates to the Greek Open University. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Laconia of New Democracy Mr Athanasios Davakis to the Minister of Culture and Sport about the preservation of the archaeological sites of Laconia. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMARKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKOKSKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKOKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKOKIKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOKOKOGANSKOKOGANSKOGANSKOGANSKOGANSKOKOKOKOKOKOKOGANSKOGANSKOKOKOGOGOKKOGANSKKKKKKOKOKOKOKOKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKOKOKOKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKAN 3. Question No 3223/7-2-2017 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMARK KEGEROGlou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the announcement of the results of the Social Tourism Programme for workers, unemployed and their families. 4. The question by No 446/18-10-2016 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassiliou Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the serious problems faced by farmers. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Integration into national legislation of Directive 2014/92/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on the comparability of fees linked to payment accounts, the change of payment account and access to payment accounts with basic features and other provisions’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 23 March 2017 to discuss the draft law at a single sitting, in principle, on articles and amendments. Be careful now, many ministerial amendments have been tabled. However, the eight of them have been discussed in committee, they have been accepted and have already been incorporated into Rule 37, I think, and below. They are therefore free to re-enter them, but they are no longer to be discussed as an extra. However, there are still six other ministerial amendments. I should like to ask, therefore, why the Secretary-General is listening to me - I already have a first information that the signatories will come - the ministers who sign them, come to support them first, so that Members may have a picture before they are placed or in any event, and then, to be as they should. Six amendments have also been tabled, on which the normal procedure will be followed. Some are extremely interesting. And because I see it on top of it, it is also Mr Karras' amendment concerning borrowers with Swiss francs. I think that this should be the case for all the wings to have access to it - personally, I am very careful. Because there are enough of the amendments and because in committee there are five colleagues and usually others speaking in plenary, there will be a time-consuming one. I will also be elastic, so I will deliver it to the Members who will follow in the Chair. I have contacted the President of Parliament about this too. There will be relative flexibility in time, so that you can speak, because the debate on the principle of Articles and amendments is uniform. I say this mainly for those colleagues who have only seven minutes, because the rapporteurs have fifteen minutes, the parliamentary representatives at the known time, twelve minutes, but in any case, there will be a time for this to happen. The entries are made electronically, as the first two general rapporteurs speak, and then the list will be closed. Is there any objection to the procedure I have said?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u2	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u3	Here you go. What do you want, Mr. Bourra?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, I would like to say that the rapporteurs, too, also need the position of the Ministers on amendments which have been tabled for Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u5	All right, as you know, the rapporteurs always have - and colleagues have - their advantage and their second-guess, the time of which will be given. You're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u6	I say this because there are issues and a procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u7	From the list, which has been given to me, I see that all the ministers will be here by noon. But I can't wait for me to go 11.00 hours to get started. You're typically right, though. The first general rapporteur is from SYRIZA, Mr Efstathos Giannakides. Please open the online directory. Here, Mr. Giannakides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at a time when the country is at a time when a great deal of effort is taking place so that the Greek economy will leave the recession behind and go to fair growth. The Greek Government moves forward to all the necessary reforms, which aim to modernise the institutional framework at all levels, especially in the critical financial services sector. In this context, Directive 2014/92/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on the comparability of fees linked to payment accounts, the change of a payment account and access to payment accounts with basic characteristics is incorporated into the draft law. It is well known that the internal market is an area without internal frontiers in which the free movement of goods, persons, services and capital is ensured. Its fragmentation is numerously detrimental, especially in terms of competitiveness, growth and jobs in the Union. Already, Union action in relation to the internal market in retail financial services has contributed significantly to the development of the cross-border activity of payment service providers, improving consumer choices and increasing the quality and transparency of tenders. After all, the universal provision of payment services depends increasingly on the proper functioning of the internal market and the development of a modern economy, without social exclusion. At the meetings of the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs we were able to discuss in detail and listen to the views of both the parliamentary forces and the bodies invited to be placed on the provisions of the draft law. We therefore have a draft law, which helps eliminate the direct and indirect obstacles to the proper functioning of the European Union's internal market. Access to a payment account shall be granted to consumers, while allowing them to participate in the internal market in order to exploit its benefits. It is also crucial to establish a uniform set of rules to address the issue of low mobility for consumers in order to respond effectively and smoothly to financial mobility in the long term. With such a set of rules we are leading to an improvement in the comparison of payment account services and related charges, an incentive to change payment account, while avoiding any discrimination based on the place of residence for consumers, which they intend to open and use a payment account at a cross-border level. In addition, competition between payment service providers is enhanced and consumer participation in the banking market is facilitated. This is something that will lead to an increase in the volume of trade in the country and will help achieve the wider objectives of economic development. The provisions of the draft law ensure a level playing field and an efficient allocation of resources in the retail financial services market, which will benefit both consumers and businesses, as measures are taken to promote consumer participation in the market and provide incentives for the entry of payment service providers into the internal market. In addition, a fully operational market in the retail financial services sector, with transparent information on the fees and possibilities of changing an account and the right to access an account with basic features, will facilitate the movement and purchases of Union citizens. It is noted that this draft law also expresses policy on combating money laundering and terrorist financing. Directive 2014/92/EU lays down provisions on the transparency and comparability of fees charged to consumers for their payment accounts, the change of a payment account in Greece, the facilitation of a cross-border payment account for European Union consumers. A framework of rules and conditions shall be established to ensure the right of consumers to open and use payment accounts with basic features. This is so that consumers can understand fees so that they can compare offers from different payment service providers and be able to decide fully which accounts are best suited to their needs. To date, the use of a different terminology by providers for the same services and the provision of information in a different form did not allow for a comparison of fees by consumers. Instead, standard terminology is defined, along with targeted information on fees in a coherent form, which will benefit consumers to understand and compare fees more effectively. As far as Part One is concerned, this is structured into seven chapters. Chapter I describes the purpose, scope, scope and the definitions necessary to understand and implement the provisions of the draft law, and among other things introduces the definition of the 'list', which includes the most representative services, which are linked to payment accounts and are subject to the payment of a fee. Chapters B' and C' relate to the comparability of fees linked to payment accounts and the process of changing an account, respectively, and apply to payment account providers. The way in which the list and its content are operated and updated is defined, while the list should comply with the regulatory standards adopted by the committee. The obligation on payment service providers to provide consumers with, in good time and before the signing of the contract, a fee information sheet and an obligation to provide consumers, on a quarterly basis, with a statement of all the fees paid during that period. An obligation to make consistent use of the current terminology throughout the European Union is laid down and consumer information and the possibility to compare fees charged by providers through an online table is ensured. The power to update and publish the table is delegated to the Bank of Greece and ensures that, where providers offer packages of payment accounts, information on whether the account can be purchased separately and with separate information on the applicable costs and charges linked to each of the products or services included in the package and can be purchased separately will also be provided to consumers. In addition, it is defined that payment service providers offer consumers a clear, rapid and secure process for changing an account. The receiving provider shall be responsible for starting and managing it. Describe the procedure followed in order to facilitate consumers who wish to open a payment account to a provider established in another Member State. The fees associated with the account-changing service shall also be specified. It is established that any financial damage suffered by the consumer due to an error of the providers involved in the process of change should be restored without delay by the providers, and that the latter are obliged to provide free of charge all relevant information about the account-changing service, if requested by the consumer. Chapter IV ensures that consumers who are legally resident in the Union shall not be discriminated against on account of their nationality or place of residence or for any other reason than those referred to in Article 21 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union when applying for payment within or seeking access to it. Access to payment accounts with basic features shall be provided, irrespective of the financial situation of consumers, such as their employment status, level of income, credit history or personal bankruptcy. It is also established as an obligation for credit institutions providing payment services to consumers and the provision of a payment account with basic features. Only institutions that provide Internet-based payment accounts are excluded. In particular, an account with basic features includes services enabling all operations necessary for the opening, operation and closing of an account, the placing of funds, cash withdrawals, the execution of direct debits, the execution of credit transfers, including fixed orders. These services shall be offered free of charge or by payment of a reasonable fee fixed by the competent authorities. In determining the national level of income and the average fees charged by credit institutions in Greece for services provided in relation to payment accounts, account shall be taken of the national level of income and of the average fees charged by credit institutions in Greece. The conditions are also laid down for denouncing a credit institution unilaterally the framework contract. At the same time, the competent authority must ensure that appropriate measures are put in place to inform the public about the availability of payment accounts with basic features, their basic pricing conditions, the procedures followed for exercising their right of access to them and the methods of access to alternative dispute resolution procedures. Chapter V sets out topics relating to the competent authorities and provides for the obligation to cooperate between competent authorities in different Member States and for how to resolve disputes between them. For Greece, the Bank of Greece is designated as the competent authority. Chapter F below provides for the imposition of sanctions by the competent authorities, within the framework of their powers, if infringements are detected and provides for the European Commission to collect statistical data on the implementation of the Directive. Ladies and gentlemen, the second part of the draft law concerns other provisions of the Ministry of Finance. In particular, Chapter I relates to provisions of the General Secretariat for Financial Policy. According to this, it is foreseen that the central administration bodies transfer part of their transfers credits to cover employees' salaries, which are seconded or transferred to other bodies. The purpose of this provision is to avoid the time-consuming procedure, which has so far been provided for the transfer of the required appropriations, i.e. by adopting a joint Ministerial Decision by the Ministry. Furthermore, Article 15 of Law 4440/2016 provides for the way in which payroll costs are covered for the secondment or transfer of general government officials to other bodies, who are however not subsidised by the ordinary budget in general or are not subsidised to cover payroll costs. Subsequently, there is provision for civil servants in the TEI category of technical workers of the legal persons of public law and of ATO I and B grades, who are serving in technical branches of TEIs without a degree or diploma of TEIs, to be treated as employees of the TEI category without a degree or diploma. The remuneration policy of DPRK staff is also set to meet with the corresponding remuneration of managers in the banking sector. The question of the exercise of the powers of Law 4270/2014 ‘Financial management and supervision principles in public accounting and other provisions’ is resolved in cases of expenditure incurred by public authorities in judicial service, public museums and decentralised special services of the Independent Public Revenue Authority. Chapter B' and in particular Article 31 thereof provide for arrangements concerning internal audits of the ECPO in order to establish an internal audit register and to implement the provisions of Article 4 of Law 3429/2005 and to appoint internal auditors and legal persons of private law and general government with a budget of more than 10 million and also to simplify and accelerate the procedure for the appointment of audit committees. It follows that the existing legislative framework, as provided for in Directive 2009/13/EU, is clarified in such a way as to allow the taxation of any resulting gains due to a contribution once the level of the receiving company at the time of the transfer of the reported assets, is cleared. In addition, there is a legislative improvement of Law 4174/2013 in order to avoid the simultaneous imposition of two fines. The powers of the customs authorities to impose sanctions under L.4264/2014 are excluded as administrative penalties, which provide for administrative fines relating to outdoor trade, do not fall within the scope of the customs service. In addition, the tax regime governing the activities of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development shall be in line with that of the corresponding international financial institutions active in Greece, in respect of its work and transactions with a view to removing any interpretative difficulties, equal tax treatment and facilitating the financing of investment projects in the country. There is also an extension of one month from the signing of the relevant joint ministerial decision establishing the registry for short-term rents of real estate in the context of the sharing economy. An arrangement relating to the donation contract of the Joint Benefit Foundation "Stavros Niarchos" to the public is then included, as the original draft contract of donation does not necessarily include elements of the company "Centre of Culture Stavros Niarchos S.A.", through which the construction and equipment of the new facilities and the park were carried out. And the cultural centre "Stavros Niarchos Foundation", such as GEMI number, tax number and competent DU, is managed by the company's total paid-up share capital, and a procedure is laid down for the implementation of this donation for the delivery to the Greek State of the temporary title of a common nominal share. It is also considered absolutely essential that the term that has been included, according to which the Joint Benefit Foundation "Stavros Niarchos" undertakes to cover any overrun in the budget of the implementation of the Centre for Culture "Stavros Niarchos Foundation". Article 38 provides for amendments to Law 2667/1998 to ensure the continuity of the smooth and uninterrupted functioning of the National Committee on Human Rights. The amendments relate to the conditions for obtaining and losing membership, the operational independence and the immunity of the members of the Committee, the way in which it operates, its staffing and the manner of scientific and administrative staff, in order to be more effective in its work and to ensure its already acquired positive assessments. The draft law shall also contain the provision, which shall be extended until 30/12/2017 of the period of suspension of sanctions and any demolition protocols for existing structures along the Koumoundourou Street of the Municipality of Piraeus, and subsequently the obligation to pay by the public infringements in the event of a postponement of proceedings before the Council of State is removed. In addition, the framework of determination of net income is clarified, with the aim of eliminating the doubts about the submission of foreign airlines to the exceptional contribution and its determination, and the legislative gap in the conditions for selecting Heads of Directorate-General of the Independent Public Revenue Authority has not been included as a precondition for the minimum service required at the level of the Head of Division. The provisions of Articles 27 and 27a of L.4172/2013 are also amended in order to regulate the handling of the deferred claim already recognised by credit institutions and entities supervised by the Bank of Greece or, where appropriate, the single supervisory mechanism in order to ensure that write-offs and restructures of loans do not lead to a loss of supervisory capital. It is permissible to achieve institutionalised objectives per credit institution to reduce non-performing loans without jeopardising budgetary objectives.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u9	You've got to pick it up slowly, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u10	I'll be a minute, Mr. President. Thank you. Moreover, in the first-class ship tax procedure, the exchange rate of the US dollar and the UK pound against the euro is determined as the official exchange rate of the European Central Bank instead of the exchange rate of the Bank of Greece. Finally, there is a period of 12 months from the publication of this Law on the harmonisation of the statutes of building cooperatives, which have not been solved and cleared. Thank you, Mr President, for the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, too. Mr Fortsakis, since there are the two ministers who have amendments of relative importance, with your permission to give them the floor for five minutes each, so that Mr Bourraras' remark that he was right can also be reached.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u12	You're welcome, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u13	Mr Papadimitriou has the floor for five minutes to develop his amendment and then Mr Gavroglou also for five minutes to develop his amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u14	Mr President, to tell us what amendment they are referring to. There are so many that we've lost count.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u15	Half the amendments, the seven, have already been incorporated into the bill. They were discussed in committee. It's six. Mr Papadimitriou, you have the floor with a relative tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposed amendment contains amendments to laws...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u17	What amendment is it, Minister, whether or not we find it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u18	It is the amendment with a general number of 989 and a special 147. The proposed amendment includes amendments to laws aimed at defining a specific framework on the status of organised wholesale markets in fresh products. The proposed provisions clarify the legal framework governing the establishment of the above. In particular, the proposed amendments form a clear reference framework for the investors concerned, linking the establishment of organised wholesale markets of fresh agricultural products to organised receptors of manufacturing and business activities. In addition, a distinction is made between the procedures for establishing central markets which are public markets for organised wholesale markets of fresh agricultural products which can be established and operated as organised receptors of manufacturing and business activities or within those limits. The first proposed Article recognises the possibility of establishing organised wholesale markets of fresh agricultural products within organised receptors of processing and business activities under Article 41(4) of Law No3982/2011 and are clearly distinguished from the central markets referred to in Article 6(1) of Law No 3475/1955. The second article introduces a specific category of wholesale business park for fresh products as well as Article 41 of Law 3982/2011 and a specific provision for the possibility of installing such parks in areas of wholesale trade. Finally, Article 3(2) of Article 15(b) is repealed. 746 of 1969, the obsolete provision establishing the exclusiveity of the Central Plant Market of Patras in wholesale trade in fresh agricultural products in Patras. The purpose of the interventions is to improve the productivity of wholesale enterprises in fresh products, to strengthen competition and consumer choice, to take collaborative initiatives between similar enterprises and related industries, as well as to ensure effective supervision of markets by the administration. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u19	So do we.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u20	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u21	I saw you, Mr. Dendia. You have the floor for three minutes. I suppose you would like to speak on a point of order, in some ways.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, I am sorry, but I am very surprised. I'm surprised. The situation in this House of constantly tabling proposed amendments at every stage of science, without any urgency, is tragic. Minister, excuse me, but you're young in the House, but you're a man with experience abroad, with a sense of things. I don't think what you said now. Do you want to explain to us, if you have kindness, what is the urgency and the delay in the Central Patras Vegetable Market or the wholesale sale of fresh agricultural products, which you could not bring into a normal piece of legislation? Why do you degrade Parliament like this? Who gave this government the right to ridicule the parliamentary procedure? Late amendment to the Central Patras Vegetable Market? With all due respect to Achaia. Are these things going to get an end? Is that possible? What prevents the government from bringing a piece of legislation properly? It may be a good thing to regulate, discuss it, see what we are going to legislate on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u23	She's positive.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u24	Late amendment to the Central Plant Market for Patras and fresh agricultural products?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u25	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u26	Where will the limit of ridiculousness finally reach this legislative function? I told the Prime Minister yesterday...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u27	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u28	Let me go, Mr. Comrade. Let go of me, I don't need a reporter.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u29	There's no need for tension.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u30	I told the Prime Minister yesterday that all these amendments are unacceptable. Where will this situation continue, Minister? Isn't there an end to you? Oh, boy! The evaluation cannot be completed, but you have done everything you can to get us into the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u31	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u32	Mr. Bourra, you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u33	On a point of order, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u34	Mr. Bourra, you don't have the floor. The point of order was raised by your parliamentary representative. You do not have the floor for the Rules of Procedure. You know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u35	Because the Minister is going to leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u36	You know you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u37	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u38	Mr. Bourra, you're an old congressman like me. You know you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u39	The signature of the Minister for Agriculture is missing, who is responsible in substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u40	Well, there's no need to protect him if his signature is missing. Let the amendment be without its signature.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u41	I discussed it yesterday with the Minister of Agriculture and he knows nothing about a major and correct issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u42	Mr Bourrai, if you'll excuse me very much, I'm not going to make the remark again. I am not allowed to comment on you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u43	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Make an observation. But let the Minister take it today and bring it to fruition, as Mr Denkias said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u44	Mr. Bourra, will you calm down?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u45	What should I calm down? I'm surprised about everything that's going on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u46	Did that surprise you? The non-signature? He had to surprise us all.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u47	Not just the signature. And with the rest I'm surprised.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u48	Mr. Bourra, please calm down, let us move on. Mr. Gabroglou, you have the floor. You can also speak from your position for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u49	Thank you. I shall refer to Amendment No 983 on the regulation of issues relating to assistant teachers. As you know, there is a difficulty in the issue of the appointment of permanent staff to education. We have declared that we will proceed with appointments. We will also announce the number and procedure after the evaluation has been completed. In the meantime, there have to be assistant teachers since September. Last year's arrangement was only for this year. There must therefore be a regulation which is identical with last year's regulation for the year beginning in September. That is, if we want schools to open up in time, we cannot delay one day longer, because the AACC is responsible for monitoring the tables and we must give that time to the AACC, so that it can do its job properly and open the schools in good time. That therefore justifies the urgency of this amendment. In the amendment we say that it is for two years. There's been a peculiar specula here. The fact that we say that it is for two years, you think it is an indirect way to say that no appointments will be made. This is not the case, because we need substitutes, even under ideal conditions, how much more so that any permanent appointments today - as I have said - cannot regularise our educational system immediately. So it doesn't mean anything more than not coming the same arrangement next time. Finally, there is one problem that has arisen, I think, again by misunderstanding the graduates of special education issues from two universities, the University of Thessaly and the University of Macedonia in Thessaloniki. Look, the previous scheme said that these children, these colleagues, are included in the tables. In a law we passed in February, we changed that. Tomorrow, a ministerial decision will be made public in the consultation, so that we can have both proposals and comments from various categories of teachers. This time we will start not to go ahead, but to be extra modulated. To promote these individuals was wrong, for there were other persons who had received a degree in a nearby branch, for example in teaching, who had done PhDs, etc. and often under the ranking of the graduates of these two departments. For reasons of equality, therefore - and I would like this to be noticed - this regime has changed. Because, last year, around nine and ten thousand or even more of ten thousand alternate teachers for special education were appointed, there will be no problem with regard to appointments due to numbers. So, for reasons of equality, we do that. Tomorrow we will announce the content of the ministerial decision in DYNAYIA, which is not common, but we do so, so that we can have colleagues' comments and we will proceed and any question is to be made, to be informed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u50	For reasons of equality and peace, Mr Bourrai, you have the floor for a minute to put your question to the Minister before the ministers leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u51	My question is: First of all - I will not go into detail - what the Minister has told us is just reading. I believe, Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u52	I didn't give you the floor for a placement, but for a precise question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u53	Yeah, yeah. At the very least, the relevant bodies should come to the committee and be included, such as other amendments, as measures. But I am telling you this: it is amazing with the Minister for Rural Development and Food. Why? What are you going to adjust? Markets, not only in Athens and Thessaloniki, but also in all parts of Greece. And you have received Mr Skourletis' signature, which at the end of the day has something to do with the municipalities and regions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u54	That signature is necessary.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u55	By the Minister for Rural Development and Food, who is responsible for the quality of food, vegetables and fish farming units to be sold on these markets, the meat...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u56	Mr. Bourra, please ask the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u57	So, in my view, it is incomplete and our proposal is this. It's a positive arrangement. As settings we'll consider it...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u58	The question is why Mr Apostle does not sign.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u59	To withdraw and come properly, as our parliamentary representative, Mr Denkias, pointed out. That's what you do, because that's not possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u60	Good. The question is why there is no signature by Mr. Apostleu. Isn't that the question?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u61	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u62	Good. That's the question, that's what you had to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u63	I asked him yesterday and he did not know, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u64	I don't care what you did yesterday. I am now presided over. Mr. Amyras, your question, please. Don't place yourself. What Minister is he for? Mr. Papadimitriou or Mr. Gavroglou?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u65	For both of us. I will start from Mr Papadimitriou, but I will be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u66	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u67	Mr Papadimitriou, first of all, I would like to ask whether the bodies involved in the amendment have been consulted, such as the Athens Trade Association, etc. The second: here we do not see how the control mechanisms, if any, will supervise the functioning of these new markets and parks - to say so - what the supervision will be, so that unfair competition is not observed and, in addition...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u68	Don't place yourself, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u69	I'm done. In view of Easter, I'm afraid that any festivals will be held here from Bulgaria or I don't know where else. So please tell us how you will check, monitor and supervise these new projects. I shall now refer to Mr Gavroglou. Minister, for the Deputy Teachers I would like to ask you this: Has the cost been budgeted? Moreover, how many primary school teachers are we talking about and how many secondary schools? Do you have such a separation? From what sources will they be paid? From the NSRF, from the budget? In conclusion, is Mr. Friend's commitment to twenty-five thousand appointments of permanent teachers or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u70	All right, that's for your placement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u71	Because he mentioned it, Mr President, that is why I am saying it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u72	I will give Mr. Loverdos the floor and then the ministers will speak. Here, Mr. Loverde, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u73	I am reacting to Mr Gavroglou, the Minister of Education, with the following words: First of all, you cannot say, Minister, that the issue of alternates is intended and indeed, you can regulate it by abolishing the alternates and replacing them, as could be right at some point, with permanent staff. It's a wish. I want the medicine against cancer to be found, too, but it hasn't been found yet. What you say is good to say, but it reminds a little of your past words and creates uncertainties about what you have in mind to do. The system will need substitutes, because, firstly, there is the problem with appointments and associated restrictions, which are a matter of general policy, which is under way by the Ministry of Education, as well as by doing so, because there are always gaps within the year, which you cannot control from the beginning. I am referring not only to pregnancies, but also to other issues. You know it. Now we're going to the deputy's own institution. We are not positive about the change that you do to what I did in 2014 and it had gone well in practice. We're not positive at all. Why are you saying that you're abolishing the program and instead, the molecules? It's not right. Based on your degrees and postgraduates, you can evolve, but your offer to an object is what counts first. You go on the basis of the degrees you have or you get, you get more modulated, you evolve, but for the recruitment the service is a great qualification. We are negative to this change. Please give us some answers, at least understand, in clear terms, how you think.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u74	I will give the floor to the two Ministers for three minutes to answer the three questions, and then we shall normally continue with the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Fortsakis. Secondary accounts are not available to the questioners. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House is running, thirteen students and students and six educational attendants from the Greek school of Düsseldorf, Germany, and twenty students and students and an educator from the 8th Petroupoli Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Papadimitriou, you have the floor for three minutes to answer the question raised by Mr. Bourras and Mr. Amyras and then Mr. Gavroglou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u75	First of all, I would like to say to the honourable Members that these amendments are the prerequisites of OECD Toolbox No 3 and, as you know, these must be commemorative obligations. The second answer, which I would like to give, is in terms of product safety, movement and control. There's no change in that. These amendments are only about establishing markets and not about handling or safeguarding them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u76	Mr Gavroglou has the floor for the questions put by Mr Amyras and Mr Loverdes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. As far as costs are concerned, it has been budgeted that a large part will come from the NSRP. They are approved amounts and a small one comes from the state budget. So it's budgeted. There's an approved one, and we're moving on. It's for about twenty-one thousand surrogates, except a thousand. I can't tell you exactly the distribution, but it's primary and secondary. It's a little over twenty. It's technical. What Mr Friends said, we continue to think it is right. These are the needs, hence the twenty, twenty - one thousand. We should look at this very seriously and see it. We are studying it within the Committee on Economics of Education, on how a draft appointments will be unfolded, so that the core of education is based on permanent teachers. I'm going to comment on what Mr. Loverd said. By expressing what we are saying, does anyone have the impression that any leadership of a Ministry of Education would be happy with so many substitutes? It is obvious and I am pleased that you, too, have expressed this in the House. I tell you this in addition, because there are some things that we should not be proud of as a society and as a state. The working conditions of the deputies could be said to touch the limits of unacceptable. Humans, as far as health is concerned, cannot have the same rights as other teachers. The substitutes run from one end of Greece to the other, collecting molecules, away from their families, etc. And to stress that we also owe them the fact that our educational system has not collapsed. Therefore, the aim of all of us must be permanent appointments, under normal procedures, so that there is no such, educational, but also working, unacceptable status. I'll come to the last piece. I don't want to say if people learn more or less. There are problems which, if you like, we can talk about later. What is certain is that a large proportion of our graduates - all graduates, but most of them in special education or pedagogical courses - are doing their postgraduate and practical exercise in adjacent branches. This is something very positive, because you get a degree and this degree opens you up a range of specialties. In a close context, your doctorate and master are your doctorate, but it can be in a close area of cognitive knowledge. Here, then, we had the absurdity, colleagues who had a postgraduate doctorate and possibly a practical exercise, to be under the other graduates who had a special education degree. That's not fair. That is why we have said that all of them should have an extra moleculosis. Because no figures are such that no one will stay outside, I would like to see an understanding of the problem of isology, but also of the academic issue that hides this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u78	Mr Fortsakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u79	Madam and Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating the incorporation into Greek legislation today - with a six-month delay, since we should have done so as early as September 2016 in accordance with Article 29 of the European Parliament and Council Directive 2014/92 of 23 July 2014 on the regulation of the framework for European payment accounts. It is undeniable that our country has an obligation to incorporate this European directive, even slowly, while respecting its obligations. The directive concerns an important banking issue, as so far, the lack of transparency and comparability of fees, as well as the difficulties in changing payments, posed problems for the consumer and contributed to low competition in the retail banking sector. Of course, today, it would be expected to take an initiative to solve other extremely pressing issues, which depend on the survival of our banking system and not on those which the directive lays down as a priority, to remember non-help loans and the out-of-court settlement of debtors. I would remind you that we are in an extremely critical situation today in relation to what is of interest to the banks. And to mention just two elements: we all know that more than 4 billion has been lost since January, which have left the banks with various outflows - from 132 billion has passed to 128 last year - and that it has been necessary all in 2016 to gather these 4 billion, which have left in just two and a half months. Everyone gets rid of the cash and the credit lines are empty. Red loans have hit the ceiling. Thirty billion is the delay of more than ninety days for red loans. Banks have denounced 47.7 billion, 13.2 billion is late for up to three months and 16.6 billion, despite being late, it is completely uncertain. Banks have already arranged loans of 46.7 billion, but 37.5%, i.e. about four out of ten loans settled, are again regulated. These all show that we are in fact in the face of a situation which is really deadlocked if urgent measures are not taken. And I am surprised that the government is dealing with secondary issues, rather than dealing with such important issues as, after all, the survival of our economy. Anyway, the incorporation of this directive is useful, as, apart from the need to ensure minimum consumer protection, the fragmentation that existed in the Union in the existing national regulatory frameworks has created significant barriers to the completion of the internal market in the field of payment accounts. Moreover, at cross-border level, cross-border activities in the payment accounts were limited, due to the obstacles faced by consumers, to the opening of a payment account abroad. It is therefore appropriate to establish a uniform set of rules to improve the comparison of account and related fees and to provide incentives to change an account, as well as to avoid discrimination, based on the place of residence for consumers, who intend to open and use a payment account at cross-border level. Furthermore, I would like to comment on the fact that there are issues which the directive does not touch on, regarding consumer protection, such as its safeguard in relation to its information on interest, payments or various costs. It would therefore be very positive if this were added. If you take and see a bank account, you will immediately realize that it is extremely difficult to understand what the bank tells him. The account is drowned in a pile of information, which is usually commercial and advertising, completely useless to the consumer, which is intended to disorientate him from a clear concept of his or her account and therefore damage him the maximum. It would be advisable to regulate these things together with what the directive says and not to close the eyes half of what concerns the consumer. The directive, in general terms, has been correctly transposed into the bill, except for some of the points I mentioned in the committee - unfortunately I had not received a reply from the Minister - which I will say very soon: Article 5 of the Directive provides for the obligation for payment service providers to provide the consumer, on an annual basis, with all the fees they have paid, while Article 5 of the draft law refers to a quarterly basis. The most important is the deviation from Article 7 of the Directive, according to which websites or services can be managed either by a private body or a public authority. Article 7 of the bill refers to the management of the Bank of Greece. In other words, we have a continuous government 'allergies' to everything that is private. Article 17 of the bill provides for a joint ministerial decision of the Ministers for Economic Affairs and Finance, which may require credit institutions in Greece to provide in the payment account and additional services in relation to basics. At this point I note that the bill contains a provision for assessing the results of the above Joint Ministerial Decision every three years or whenever this is necessary by the relevant Ministries, and this is not included in Article 17 of the Directive. Conversely, it is not included in Article 17 of the bill, the provision of Article 17 of the directive to allow Member States to allow credit institutions to give consumers the opportunity to overtake. I would remind you that overdraft is an explicit credit agreement, according to which the payment service provider makes available to the consumer money that exceeds the current balance of the consumer's payment account. So we understand that overreacting is a very important point for the consumer. An addition which does not exist in the directive is also found in the evaluation procedure in Article 18 of the draft law, where the fees imposed and the relevant points are laid down to be rescheduled by a joint Ministerial Decision of the Ministers for Economic Affairs and Finance, the results of which are planned to be assessed every three years. So we do not find this in the relevant article of the directive. Finally, a significant difference is as follows: Articles 24 and 25 of the Directive are entitled ‘Additional dispute resolution and mechanism in the event of a refusal of a payment account for which a fee is paid’. These are not included in the bill, as is Article 28 of the Directive, entitled ‘Reexamination’, and it provides for a review of the Directive following a report from the Committee to the European Parliament and the Council on the implementation of the Directive. The provision of alternative forms of dispute resolution and resolution with a compromise is extremely important and it is very regrettable that they have been omitted at a time when we know that our judges are now in a situation of substantial negligence. I would now like to comment on the time left for the amendments, noting from the outset that I am really surprised at the number and importance of the amendments. The volume of amendments and the importance of the provisions of the amendments goes far beyond the main purpose of the regulation. I really feel that I am taking part in a totally degraded debate, in a Parliament which does not actually have the least power to be properly informed and to be able to discuss. It is really regrettable, Minister, that the main object of the debate is to drown in a body of incomprehensible provisions and amendments, and there is an explicit constitutional arrangement that bans it and, while you have opposed it so many times, it has stifled similar behaviours of previous governments which, however, have not even reached the minimum. The amendments which have been tabled - I will take them in turn and I will make them very briefly, because, as I have said before, they are too many - start with Article 27, which provides for the costs of posting and transfers of officials of supervised bodies. We, New Democracy, had voted against the Vernardakis-Germany law. It is true that there is a need for regulation here. However, budgetary costs are created. We will place ourselves on this when it comes to voting time. Article 28, which the Minister spoke about earlier, concerns the equalisation of officials serving in technical disciplines with a TE without a degree. It is true that those who studied in two-year-olds, such as Sivitanideus, at a time when the TEI was not yet there, naturally do not have the degrees that are now required. Therefore, in a sense, wage simulation has a basis. However, I would like to point out to the Minister that while the provision has improved significantly, it is still problematic. And I would point out that the employees referred to in paragraph 8, Article 16 of Law 3345/2005 must be added to the "... and the employees of IDAC..." - which does not exist - "... they are evolving in the pay scales..." etc. until the perfection. And then he writes the article in it: "Any increase in wages..." - I correct, "any increase in wages" - "...equally offset by a personal difference". Oh, no. Any increase in wages shall be regulated by paragraph 1, but not by Article 27, because paragraph 1, Minister, refers to reductions and paragraph 2 shall refer to increases. It is extremely rough the work that has been done throughout the length and width of this bill. I am really surprised that there are so many unacceptable provisions to be put forward for debate in this House. In other words, you have not even been interested in verifying the accuracy of the articles we are discussing. Article 29 almost doubles the remuneration of the Director-General and the Deputy of the Public Debt Management Agency. We heard that we can't find people who come to work with small wages and we need to go to the market to find people who want to get expensive. At the time people of EUR 300 and 400 live and cannot buy milk for their child, it is shameful to discuss the doubling of the Directors-General's fees. Let anyone who can work with this money come along. Anyone who can't better find a job elsewhere and let the state channel their money where there's the greatest need. Article 30 talks about another change in public accounting. Instead of limiting, this provision increases the exemptions from electronic handling of documents, therefore also the commitment and commitment. The government's sluggishness, once again, undermines the objective of the universal application of public accounting. So we're negative. Article 31 regulates internal organisation and internal audit issues of the ECO and institutionalises the Internal Auditor Registry by the Ministry of Finance. While it is right to have a register, there is no guarantee of objectivity and transparency, because in the end it is up to the Minister to decide on it. It is therefore a negative provision. Article 32 is a positive development as the transferring company is definitively exempted from the tax for any goodwill resulting from the asset injection, unless it transfers the acquired securities within three years of the completion of the contribution. I would like to point out that, at the level of the receiving company, no goodwill can arise in the transformation, since the reported data have the same value as before the contribution. I think the layout is positive. Article 33 is a legal correction, because it corrects twofold provisions of the Code on Tax Procedure in relation to fines, which we have imposed twice. I am positive in this article. Article 34 states that the fines imposed on the people's public markets, such as the lack of authorisation, do not fall within the scope of the Customs Service. In reality, this provision corrects a gap and is positive. Article 35 talks about harmonising the tax regime governing the activities of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development with relevant international financial institutions. That is correct. Article 36 confers powers on a set of arrangements provided for in an article of Law 4446/2016. In fact, it extends all that was intended for leases of a particular type of real estate. I think that has long had to deal with this issue. These continuous extensions show to what extent neither the simplest things can be applied. I shall then proceed to Article 37, which speaks of an amendment to the NGO Convention. Correction is made to what we have received news that they should not have been made on the day of the opening. And that's really amazing! I come to Article 38, which speaks of the Committee on Human Rights, which needs to be adapted to international standards so that it can have the relevant accreditation. It is firstly good that the committee will have more scientific staff. It is therefore a good frame of prediction. I am, however, totally negative - and this provision has been put forward at the request of the committee as far as I have been aware - on the way in which the officials who will come to serve the service now provided for are chosen. Instead of fully entrusting the selection of these officials to the committee and to its chairman, the Minister continues to exercise considerable influence and maintain significant determination, which, of course, proves completely to the character of the committee as an institution which has independence. So this point is extremely negative and should be corrected, because otherwise its content is completely negative. Article 39 once again extends the removal of the buildings from Koumoundourou coast. We must finally get a class into this matter. Article 40 talks about the mistakes of the Greek State in the event of the trial being postponed. I find it completely unacceptable that the procedural treatment of the public differs from that of the private. Public and private in the proceedings must have the same privileges and obligations. So I do not see why the individual should pay when he calls for a trial to be postponed, and the public, which he has, and the majority of responsibility for the constant postponements to the courts, should not pay anything. I do not think that if this provision is adopted, it will be brought to the Court of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u80	Professor, the rest in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u81	I'll be done in two minutes. I will not use it, Mr President. I'm gonna quit my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u82	Yeah, but you've already been to nineteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u83	I'll be done in two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u84	You have a minute to close.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u85	Thank you. So we absolutely must not do that, because we will have a problem. In any case, there is a clear case-law, which is well-established. Article 41 refers to a contribution to foreign airlines. It's a positive arrangement. Article 42 converts the conditions required for holding a grade of Director-General to the Public Revenue Authority. It may be necessary to differentiate in terms of conditions. But the way it is done is not right for the following two reasons: first of all, there is a significant difference in relation to the Code of Civil Service, which only differs from the number of years that are prerequisites, and here there is another differentiation. Secondly, with the regulation that is being made, one can become Director-General, but he cannot be Director-General. We therefore have an empty and contradiction here, which is extremely important and must be corrected. I am, therefore, negative in this provision. With Article 43, on red loans, we are positive. With Article 44, on ship tax issues, we are positive for exchange rates. As far as Article 45 is concerned, 'Constitutions of building cooperatives' must finally come an end and this must be the last extension. I would now like to keep the second one...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u86	Mr. Fortsakis, you have to close up. Please close.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u87	I have actually closed down, Mr President. I conclude by saying that for the last amendments that came last night, I will be placed when the debate is over, because I have not had time to study them. But I would like to reply to the Minister, who has just left, Mr Gavroglou. It is completely unacceptable that special education graduates should not be promoted on an issue which is extremely important for our education. We're suffering terriblely on the subject of special treatment. It is not for those who have studied for so many years that they do not go ahead and do not have the main responsibility. And, of course, postgraduate is important, but much less than having a master's degree.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u88	Mr. Fortsaki, please. You've put me in a very difficult position. Close this moment, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u89	I shall conclude, Mr President. At the Law School of Athens one can do a postgraduate or doctorate without having a degree. I mean, you understand, a non-legislative can do legal. From there to understand what kind of adjustment it is that comes for discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u90	I said from the outset that the rapporteurs and the speakers will have a second. If, then, we take dentology into protology, then we don't want a second. I won't stay until the end. You stay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u91	You're right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u92	You've covered your time. At least, you'll have a minimum for your dentistry. We're getting into the special speakers. The first three colleagues to take the floor are Mr Arvanitides from the Democratic Integration, Mr Germenis from the Golden Dawn and Mr Vardalis from the Communist Party of Greece, also with the relative tolerance I must show to everyone, since I showed the first two. Mr. Arvanitides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u93	We are discussing today the ‘Integration into national legislation of Directive 2014/92/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on the comparability of fees linked to payment accounts, the change of a payment account and access to payment accounts with basic features and other provisions’. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the government of hope and change, the government that would break the bounds of the country and bring growth, the government of cleansing and merit, does not have time to change costumes to hide the truth from the citizens. No matter how many rabbits you take out of the hat, no matter how much paint you do, no matter how hard you set up for distraction, the show comes to the end and the lights of the curtain will be closed. For three months, none of you have been dealing with the problems of society. For three months the House has been dealing mainly with sanctions for international conventions and European directives when critical bills have remained and have remained for months in the drawers of the Ministers. We had to get to the end of March to finally get the red loan bill to Parliament. We had to get to the end of March to give the first school meals to students in Thessaloniki. Of course, the collapsed market is still waiting for the 'I save at home' programme to move forward. The distance, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, which separates you from society each day grows and will continue to grow as long as you choose to hide behind the lenders. You rule the country. Find the courage to assume your responsibilities. Solve the problems the citizens have entrusted you with or leave with dignity. What is happening right now in the country does not honor anyone. As I said in committee, the contradictions in your policy have gone far beyond what I say. We have reached the point of coming to the House bills that cannot be implemented. We are now discussing the ratification of a European directive, which, supposedly, will enable citizens to choose easily and quickly the provider with the best charges to open a payment account. Of course, all these nice things apply to others, they apply to European citizens, who are not under capital controls. For the Greek citizen, for a year and a half, has been confronted with the capital control dorm and cannot transfer his account from one bank to another bank. I have also asked the committee, Minister, to tell us in detail what articles in the draft law are in total or partly inconsistent with the restrictions on capital control and their implementation is impossible. The representative of the Association of Greek Banks pointed out these problems to you at the hearing of the bodies. You must finally answer, if you do not want the debate to be of a philosophical interest. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is part of the banking union initiatives, a Europe that is clear that it has lost its direction well. The suffering of the global financial crisis of 2008, unfortunately, has not become a lesson to us. The crisis has shown us that, with regard to the markets that operate unconsciously and speculatively, they can only stand strong supranational structures, such as the European Union. And in order to do this, Europe must solve its problems and remain united. So the first and foremost thing the Greek Government must do is tell us what Europe will fight and not say to the Prime Minister that he listens with interest to the debate on a multi-speed Europe. As long as we leave these things to their fate, as we throw water into the mill of extremist neoliberals, who believe that the inequalities on the planet will be solved by charity and simply by lower tax rates, the answer to those who strangle production, economy, wages and pensions to make their profits on tax havens must be merciless. The answer to 'Golden parachutes' and 'golden boys' must in practice be given, not just to words, and I am not referring only to the bank executives with whom this terminology has been linked. I am also referring to supposed investors who close their businesses and leave them to the ace suppliers and workers, after having taken their money to safe shelters. The more this situation continues, the more the inequalities break into the social fabric, the greater the responsibility for the progressive forces of the country. The citizens expect us to solve these problems and not the conservatives. I'm closing my parentheses, and I'm coming back to the bill. The directive concerns only natural persons and not companies who want to use a payment account with basic characteristics to be able to place money, to be able to take cash, and to be able to execute and receive payments. The directive improves the existing regime in four respects. It helps the citizen understand the product of the payment account, learn in detail the fees paid for each service, select the provider that fits it through data that have been codified uniformly, so that it can easily compare the prices of the debits and choose, be easy and smooth to move to a new provider without excessive charges and timely procedures. This process does not only concern banks, since, according to Law 3862/2010, providers who can offer payment services in our country may be electronic money issuing institutions, postal cheque offices, payment institutions, the European Central Bank and the Bank of Greece, the Greek public and, of course, the banks. Without wanting to expand into the articles, I will tell you that the directive has two basic pillars. The first relates to the publicity actions that providers are obliged to implement in order to enable consumers to compare easily, and the second relates to facilitating the consumer to change provider. I would remind you that in my opinion the part of the facility is really inappropriate at the moment because of the fact that the capital control is in place in the Greek economy. The articles that are of particular interest distinguish between Article 16, which gives the right to open a payment account to credit institutions established in Greece which do not have a fixed residence address, asylum seekers and non-residence fees, but whose deportation is impossible for legal or factual reasons. The question, of course, is whether these people, for example the thousands of refugees in our country, can make use of this provision or they are incapital control too. I would also like to dwell on Article 18 on the issue of charges. It is an issue that really troubles consumers and businesses, whether they want to transfer money to make payments to another bank or accept payments with POS. We have said many times that bank charges are excessive and the government must intervene. This draft law refers to a reasonable fee in Article 18 so that providers can offer payment account services with basic features. This will be determined on the basis of the national level of income and the average of fees charged by providers. Since the provision is quite general, we have also proposed to the committee that a joint ministerial decision be adopted to further specify these criteria. I hope that the government will find some time from the proud negotiations and deal with these issues. The definition of a fragile consumer also needs to be defined in order to include all our fellow citizens who really need it. I now come to the other provisions of the draft law, which, with the knowledge of the practice and the amendments, only slightly exceeded the number of articles in the directive that we are currently voting on. I have referred in detail to the contents of the committee, so I will only focus on the points that need to be discussed further. We have asked for Article 27 to inform us how many civil servants this provision relates to and what that means to their mobility. If, in other words, you intend to move staff towards or outside the General Government. For Article 29, which deals with increases in the FDR, I also told the committee that the main problem is that in public wages we make regulations on a card every time, on a case-by-case basis, rather than opening the debate on a serious payroll, which will ensure transparency for the taxpayer, efficiency for the administration and decent wages for workers. If you continue with this, we will never end with this issue, which we are seeing to be concerned with in Article 28 for the wage simulation of officials in the field of TEIs without a diploma or diploma with the corresponding TEIs. In Article 30 we believe that there is a setback in relation to the spirit of the new public accounting officer, who carries greater responsibility to their own bodies and not to external auditors. We therefore need specific clarifications on the problem that you want to address. In Article 31, I have asked for the first meeting of the committee to resolve the matter with the wording of paragraph 4, which is not completed and there are implicitly. There is still no legislative correction. I hope you're doing it soon. In Article 38 we want to propose two legislative improvements that we believe will contribute positively to the work of the National Committee on Human Rights. The first concerns the possibility of the committee being housed in its own offices and the second concerns scientific staff. In particular, we propose in paragraph 1, after the word 'Commission', that the words'stores autonomously in its own offices and has its own scientific and administrative staff' should be added. In paragraph 13, the words ‘renewed up to two times’ shall be replaced by the word ‘renewed’ as in the past. In the same paragraph after the word 'cover', the words 'after a proposal by the President of the Commission' should be added. For Article 40, we have repeatedly told you that the philosophy of reciprocity is problematic and burdens our weakest fellow citizens, who cannot afford the costs. Today you come to do it even more problematic, creating two-speed and major inequalities to the detriment of the citizens. I'm closing with the amendments. We are positive of Amendment No 988 on penalties imposed on tax infringements of businesses, but I would like to make a few comments. Article 1 provides that a controlled person who does not interfere with tax control is not entitled to a prior hearing, while a controlled person who prevents him from doing so will be entitled to it. I think you should explain to us, Minister, what this discrimination is worth. In addition, the wording of paragraph 9 of Article 13 of the Law. 2523/1997 must, in my opinion, be replaced by the words in paragraph 9 of Article 13 of this Law. We are positive about Amendment 989, which clarifies the legal framework governing the organised wholesale markets in fresh products. We are also positive in Amendment 994 on the concession of the Pavlou Mela camp, in accordance with the existing provisions, of a breathtaking concession for the inhabitants of western Thessaloniki, which needs to be made immediately and to move on with the use of this land. On the other hand, we are negative in Amendment No 983 on special treatment. First of all, it is interesting that in the explanatory statement you admit that the twenty-thousand permanent recruitment you have announced in education is not going to be as long as you are in the government. So for another time, the treasure's carbon. Secondly, we have a clear position that priority should be given to teachers with a basic degree in special education for the simple reason that these people are not able to work anywhere else, they cannot work in general. So the Democratic Partnership supports the arrangement made by Andreas Loverdos in August 2014 as Minister of Education. Finally, I would like to say a few words about Amendment No 982 tabled by my colleague, Mr George Karras, on foreign currency loans. I, too, have been informed about a memorandum from the Swiss Frequently Lending Association and, if the amendment had been here earlier, we would have had the opportunity to hear it at the hearing. The Democratic Reconciliation has told all tons that the question of housing loans concluded with a Swiss franc clause is urgently needed. We have submitted our proposal for red housing loans several months ago, which includes special care for borrowers in a Swiss franc. These people pay a great deal of money due to the change in the exchange rate of the two currencies. Their debts at a time of enormous economic crisis increased significantly both monthly instalments and outstanding capital. So since the amendment tabled by my colleague is in the political context, we call on you, Minister, to accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u94	Me too, Mr. Arvanitides. You've been impeccable in time. We move on to the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Georgios Germenis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u95	Thank you. The proposed legislation and the directive, which is incorporated into Greek legislation, are supposed to be aimed at laying down transparency rules and comparing the fees charged to consumers by banks for the use of payment accounts. That is to say, it deals with procedural issues, while at the same time it gives consumers the illusion that they are allegedly providing them with information, knowledge and opportunity to compare fees and charges to be imposed by credit institutions so that they believe they have the option of which they can choose, which this bank will in turn charge them once again. In fact, the immunity and uncontrollableness of financial institutions and the Brussels economic directorate are only guaranteed against the citizens of European states. This piece of legislation is supposed to take measures to inform citizens of the fees levied on the payment accounts by credit institutions. However, no reference is made to feasibility and misuse and, above all, to the amount that they will charge consumers. At the same time, there is nowhere to say about reducing the fees and charges in order to bring about a substantial reduction in citizens who have been overcompensated by the same providers of these services. Substantial relief is impossible, since the only option given to the European consumer is simply to choose on his own which bank will exploit him and continue to be rich at his expense. No choice has been made for anyone who dares to develop productive economic activity in a Europe that is subjected to the bureaucrats and the Brussels loan sharks. So from Scylla to Harvey for the peoples of Europe, with the sole aim of ensuring the profits of banks and a pan-European financial system, which acts to the detriment of national economies. Furthermore, the fact that there is no possibility of control by the competent bodies in each Member State can even lead to the emergence of illegal and uncontrolled economic activities in the European Union. Europe will be vulnerable to the economic penetration of each epidemic, as there is no insurance and any control mechanism that could prevent it. In addition, this legislation is another opportunity to strengthen your party army, introducing new positions, in order to serve the need for ruffles and even amendments, in order to get as quietly as possible. The provisions in the first part of the bill could perhaps serve the benefit of consumers and contribute positively to the direction of economic and business activities, if they were applied to an economy and a market which would be governed by specific rules and would enable citizens to trade and operate economically and professionally within a security and stability regime. But in the case of our country all kinds of economic activity is over because of the Memorandumary Policies. Overcompensation and red loans have caused economic suffocation on the market and have canceled any effort of economic and business activity. In addition, the great capital control leaves no room for the relaunching of the economy and results in Greek citizens being considered as second and third-class citizens in the European Union markets. It is hypocrisy, therefore, to legislate today on procedural matters, while flouting issues employ both ordinary consumers and those active in the labour market and in the professional commercial and productive sectors of our national economy. In particular, when these procedural issues actually safeguard the interests of banks and not the citizens. In particular, Article 18 uses the term'reasonable' for the fees and charges imposed on consumers, but without specifying exactly what the limits of these 'fair' charges are to protect consumers, who have paid for many decades without any need, incalculable sums to credit institutions, who have imposed them unilaterally by misuse, burdensome and illegal charges.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u96	Mr. Germenis, your tolerance for fifteen seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u97	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-seven students and students and three educational escorts from the Mesarias School of Santorini. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Thank you, Mr. Germenis, keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u99	For example, the regulation we are talking about today, which refers to the information sheet provided by banks to consumers, cannot be used as an alibi to cover the responsibilities of a political and financial establishment, which for many years has led consumers to overcompensation and economic catastrophe. It is not possible for representatives of a system which has not only been tolerated, but has also promoted the fraud of loans in Swiss francs, destroying tens of thousands of borrowers, to now appear as self-determined protectors of consumers who are dealing with less important issues. The Golden Dawn does not accept to be involved in such a mockery by the government and against consumers and borrowers, and it makes sense to vote against this bill. As far as the articles are concerned, we have spoken in detail during the committee. Today I will specifically refer to two articles, Articles 27 and 29, which make us the greatest impression. In particular, Article 27 deals with the way in which pay is paid in cases of transferring or posted officials from the General Government to posts not covered by the ordinary budget, by transferring funds to different codes or special grant bodies to which transfers or secondments take place. This is a provision that leaves the ground open in opaque procedures, in particular as regards the transfer of funds and the grants mentioned, without the possibility of adequate supervision by the control mechanisms. At the same time it imposes a burden on the budget and strengthens bureaucracy. Of course we're against it. Article 29, which I have just mentioned, excludes from the ceiling the remuneration received by the Director-General and the Deputy Director-General of the Public Debt Management Agency. This is a challenging regulation, indicative of the disparity with which the government stands against the whole of society. At the same time as Greek citizens are being exterminated economically, depriving even the elementary, the government's "lighters" legislation on the substance of the vertical increase in the earnings of some of the most high-paid government officials. We, as Golden Dawn, will say to take these executives who take these fat wages and take them a walk to Aegaelo, Perama, to the people's neighborhoods to see and see all of them together where the Greek society lives and then decide about the fat wages you will pay to these gentlemen. All I have to say from this is: Awful! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u100	We proceed with the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Athanasio Bardalis. You have the floor, Mr Vardalis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr President. For the first part of the bill, ladies and gentlemen, which concerns the transposition of Directive 2014/92, I think it is clear. The aim of the directive itself is to contribute to competitiveness, to growth and to create the conditions for the application of the four freedoms of the Maastricht Treaty, namely the free movement of goods, persons, services and capital. This directive is crucial because it introduces uniform rules to address the issue of ‘low mobility of consumers’ - these are mentioned in the explanatory statement - by comparing payment services with the relevant fees with the provision of incentives to change payment account, as well as opening up cross-border payment accounts. And it is crucial because it opens new profitable markets for big capital. This directive is part of a more general European Union policy to facilitate the action of capital. In the same direction, measures such as the single market for mortgages, an unobstructed choice of borrowing body independently of the country, the proposal for a single payment area, including the single account for the whole of the European Union and for businesses, and finally the facilitation of cross-border money trafficking in the countries - members of the European Union. At the same time, even greater support for stock capital, mergers, acquisitions, concentration and concentration of capital is being promoted. Of all this, it is clear that the convergence criteria and the policy of capitalist restructuring have organic convergence in the relationship between them. For example, restructuring serves the four freedoms, which are the heart of Economic Monetary Union and focuses on one: the free movement of capital. All these measures have an organic relationship between them, because they serve the needs of accumulation, the reproduction of capital, the ability to cope with the strongest competition and, indeed, in a period of capitalist economic crisis. Competition on the other hand requires the maximum freedom to move capital and goods. The Government and the other opposition parties that support the path of deepening European integration claim that consumers will benefit from this directive because, through the development of competition, they will also have the opportunity to compare the level of these fees and thus choose the most advantageous solution for them. And all the above, you're saying it once you're about to lower your pensions, the tax on the people's strata, and in practice to reduce their actual income. But the explanatory statement on this issue is clear here too. It states: ‘The measures in question will provide incentives for the entry of payment service providers into the internal market and will ensure a level playing field, in order to provide an efficient allocation of resources within the retail financial services market’. So in simple terms, what they are primarily interested in in this case is how they find a way out of investing ponds in this sector, how they ensure equal conditions of competition for these funds. This is true when you go to hide, that in any case the basic thing that should be guaranteed is the profit of banking groups and providers. And this gain will come from the employees of these financial services. Prices for certain services may, at the beginning of a short period, be reduced in time, but with the growth of competition, concentration and concentration, the concentration of the pie in a few hands, the fees will again take the rise. After all, were you not the ones who said that the convergence of the economies, wages and standard of living of workers will come with the unification of the European Union? Didn't you bomb us that the ideals of solidarity, peace and social justice were those that pushed this dynamic course of the European Union? What's proved to be all these years? That everything you were saying was a utopia. Not only did we have convergence, but the gap between the economies of the Member States of the European Union has increased further. This has happened because despite the common objectives of the urban classes of the countries of the European Union, they could not raise the impact of the law of unequal development, the change in the correlation of powers between the Member States of the European Union, the competition and the differences between them. It has been historically proven that the monetary welding of states having different economic power, a different level of productivity, not only did it bluntly but it exacerbated the imbalance between these countries. A simple comparison of the courses of Germany and France, two main states of the so-called 'hard core', shows this trend of divergence. Because, alongside the above mentioned, there are and operates the economic capital crises, the hunting of the maximum profit rate, the law of concentration and concentration of capital. The development of competition, which you all claim will get the country out of the capitalist economic crisis, has brought down a series of branches. The acquisitions and mergers proceeded. The agricultural trade deficit has increased. Wages and pensions were robbed. Labour conquests have been abolished, such as eight hours and collective agreements. Elastic working relationships have become normal. Social security's out. A series of labour rights were taken back. And now, woe to those who believe you once again. Woe to those who even now give a basis to what you say that by ensuring the uninterrupted movement of capital, goods, persons and services, workers and people will benefit. It has now been proved in practice that the European Union is a promoted capitalist union, that is, a propelled form of alliance between the capitalist states in Europe, with the aim of strengthening its own monopolies. You all say that the European Union's footstep was a one-way road, and even without a return. Now what do you have to say about the debate that has opened on the future of the European Union, the White Paper, the Juncker proposals? Aren't you the ones trying to convince the people that the European Union is firm, something that exists beyond and outside evolution, the class struggle itself, the association of forces? None of what you've said is true. Nothing is given. The opening up of the debate for the European Union of different speeds is an adjustment within the data that the unequal growth between the Member States has developed in an effort to avoid charging the loss of private and state debt management, i.e. depreciation, which is essential for the capitalist economy to take forward. What will happen will depend on the outcome of competition between the shares in the capital. It has, however, been proved in practice that the capitalist European Union is not a coherent, stable and permanent shape. How things have come! Where you were almost sure of the future of the European Union, you are now living in fear of tomorrow, of anxiety about the uncertain future of the euro area. In our view, there is a way out for the benefit of the people. Except that this way out has nothing to do with the story of the government and the other parts of the Euromoney that it will be turned into a European Union with democratic and social sensitivity, a Europe of solidarity, philolosophical development, nor, of course, with the opportunistic fairy of salvation with capitalist Greece of the drachma. For the working people only way out and a solution to his benefit, it is the establishment of the social alliance, which, by reconstructing and counter-attacking the labour-people movement, can change political and social formations, overthrow the capitalist development path, create the conditions for the people themselves to take power and exploit it to meet their own needs. I now come to a few points about the other provisions and amendments that have been tabled. I would also like to say a word about something that, in any case, we are talking about in every bill. Two other amendments came up until ten minutes ago. One of them is more than twenty pages. In several of them, as in several articles, we have been placed in committees. Because of time, I will not go into this again. I would like to point out a few points to the most important - in any case what we consider to be one of the other issues that we have not placed. First of all, Article 29. It is obvious here that this is a challenge. At the time you reduce wages and pensions, you are ready to further reduce the tax on people's units, you come and increase the salaries of the Director-General and his deputy to the Public Debt Management Agency from about EUR 4,600 to EUR 8,315. In our opinion, it is also challenging for those who have brought workers into this situation - that is, those who have ruled in previous years, New Democracy and the PASOK - and I mean workers and pensioners with the reductions in wages and pensions now rise on the whole issue. We're clear. What we are asking for and what needs to be done is to increase wages and pensions, get back what you have taken them in the seven - eight years of the crisis so that they can live in human lives. I now come to the Ministry of Education's amendment on alternates and special education. Here, in our opinion - and it is not a spiral at all, as the Minister said - I imagine he was not referring to the Communist Party - there is a cynical confession to continue austerity and movement, at least by 2020 - and I say at least why, beyond that, we see what happens. In other words, instead of permanent recruitment of twenty thousand teachers who had announced, they are now saying that this unacceptable situation will continue until 2020. What did the Minister say here, presenting the amendment? In our view, to reassure the teachers and their movement - take care of them! - not recruitment, but announcements after the end of the evaluation. In other words, we will make announcements, if we are allowed to do so, and we will see when we can recruit permanent educational staff. In any case, however, the recruitment of permanent educational staff is linked to the third memorandum you have all voted on. Your whole logic is precisely to manage this issue. Secondly, the Minister told us that a lot of specs have fallen and, above all, I imagine that he was referring to those who are protesting, that is to say to workers and their collective bodies, who disagree with the extension of this unacceptable situation to substitutes. What did he say? We have put two years and not one to extend this regime, because substitutes would be needed even if we were to recruit permanently. Then why do you have two years? Why don't you put five, ten years? Why don't you make it permanent, since you're going to need this situation permanently? In our opinion, this is about the previous issue I have told you. Now we promise recruitment after 2020, which is most likely not to be in the government, - in in introductory terms - 'God has'. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u102	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. There has been a mutual transfer and Mr Katsiantonis will speak from the Centroon Union first and then Mr Dimitrios Kammenos will speak. Mr. Katsiantoni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the incorporation of this directive is, in all respects, beneficial to the Greek payment services market. However, in order to benefit from this, everyone will need to find a common intention for the implementation of the new data. I think first of all that the entry into force will be determined by the time the law is published. Likewise, I find it useful to give a reasonable margin of time, for example four to six months, in relation to the entry into force of the provisions of Articles 14, namely information on the account-changing service and 20(2) on general information on payment accounts with basic features, and that is why we all realise that there should be a period of transition of financial systems rather than just payment institutions. So there will be no excuses and objections saying that he has not been able to organise his systems, so there will be a one-way shift in consumer benefit. Otherwise, the articles relating to the transposition of the directive cover what is necessary for the adoption of the relevant legislative framework. So I see, or at least I expect the changes to come in a positive direction in general and I will be placed in a detailed manner. It is positive to establish, by Article 2, a list of representative services linked to a payment account subject to a fee payment. In Article 4, the obligation to provide payment services to the consumer before the contract is signed with regard to the fees charged for each service. It is also good to provide for Article 7 on how to inform consumers via an online table in order to compare and evaluate the fees charged. Positive is that the competence to keep, update and publish this online table has been delegated to the Bank of Greece, in accordance with Article 21. It is also important for consumers to be able to purchase a payment account separately from other products under Article 8. It is beneficial to provide, in Article 10, for consumers to be able to request the receiving payment service provider to transfer all or part of the incoming fixed credit transfers for credit transfers or direct debit orders. It is appropriate to provide, in Article 13, for the recovery of any consumer damage in the event of an error by the payment service provider. It is important for consumers legally resident in the European Union to be able to access, in a non-discriminatory manner, the application services for payment or access to, and the related obligation of providers to have, payment accounts with basic characteristics. We see it in Articles 15 and 16. Expectation exists in practice, free of charge or in relation to a reasonable fee, categories of services as it is seen in Article 17, for which the fee will be fixed after the competent authorities take into account the national level of income and the average fees charged by banking institutions in Greece for the services provided in relation to payment accounts, Article 18. Furthermore, I would like to say a little bit about Article 35 on the extension of tax exemptions for all the work of the European Bank for Reconstruction, because I am still not sure what the loss will be to the public in order to understand and understand what compensatory measures we already have to bear our fellow citizens. I am not saying that there should be no matching of the tax status of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development with that of other international financial institutions and organisations operating in Greece. Nevertheless, I would like - and I have asked the committee - to know with numbers the upcoming loss of the state fund from this change. For the increase provided for in Article 29 to the Executive Director of DPRK, in particular the doubling of the remuneration of the Director-General and his alternate, the burden of the State budget of EUR 88,500 per year is really unacceptable. You are doing so at a time when you are making the opposite of the low-pension pensions, with the cut in EKRF, with the cut in three years of widow's pensions and much more. In addition, with regard to the amendment on the recruitment that has finally been cut, and which will be carried out by means of secondments and transfers for the National Committee on Human Rights, I agree that these will eventually be done in the current process of mobility in the public sector, as anything else is non-legislative. Also, in relation to the amendment on a regulation on the obligation to file an infringement for the trials, I think that it is in the end that it is confronted with issues of equality between the public and the private individuals who are in dispute with him. In relation to the amendment concerning the bodies supervised by the Bank of Greece and their tax system, the deferred tax requirements, I am not sure whether it will ultimately benefit Greek taxpayers, because there is still a significant lack of regulation of red loans. I would first like to see the red loan arrangement, to see the banks throwing money on the Greek market and restructure the debtors' loans, and then talk again about the five-year increase in the deferred tax in a 20-year plan. How do you know? It may be that when we see this arrangement, the 15th year will eventually serve us. Among us, who thinks that after twenty years the banks will pay tax and how many of these banks will there be to pay? In conclusion, I would like to stress that in 2014 you in SYRIZA, as opposition, have supported all such attempts. In fact, you blamed the New Democracy for bringing it into the well - known mail Hardouvelis. Now, on the articles. In Articles 1 to 26 we shall vote 'yes'. Article 27, on the cover of the cost of extracts and transfers, will vote against. In Article 28 we say 'yes'. In Article 29, which deals with DPRK, that is to say increasing payroll, we say 'no'. In Article 30, on an amendment to public accounting and the payment of expenditure, we say 'no'. In Article 31 we say 'no'. In Article 32, which relates to the provision that the transferring company is definitively exempted from the tax for any goodwill resulting from the asset injection, unless it transfers the acquirers of securities within three years of the completion of the transferable assets, we say ‘yes’. In Article 33 we say 'yes'. In Article 34 we say 'yes'. In Article 35 on tax exemption for the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, we will vote'residents'. Article 36, which concerns the extension of the provision for short-term leases, will vote against. With regard to Article 37 on Stavros Niarchos, we are positive and will vote on it. Article 38 is to be voted on. In Article 39 we say 'yes'. In Article 40 we shall vote'residences' because it creates a question of inequality between public and private individuals who have a dispute with the public or with their institutions. In Article 41 we shall vote 'the present'. In Article 42 we say 'no'. In Article 43, we are voting 'the present'. In Articles 44, 45 and 46 we say 'yes'. As far as the amendments are concerned, Mr President, because a great deal has come and, as my colleague said before me, what really happens is unacceptable, our Parliamentary representative will be placed in detail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u104	You'll also have a right to secondary, if necessary. So, you might as well be placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u105	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u106	Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to the special speaker from the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, I would like to make a statement to you. I read two letters: "To the President of the Greek Parliament Mr Nikolaos Voutsi. Mr President, I would like to inform you in writing that I am part of the Group of the Democratic Alliance. Yours sincerely, Konstantinos Barriotas” At the same time, there is also a letter of acceptance, which reads as follows: Mr President, I would like to inform you that I have accepted the wish of the Independent MEP Larissa Konstantinos Barriotas, who is part of the Group of the Democratic Alliance. Yours sincerely, Gennamas’
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u107	It's not a surprise, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u108	Okay. I didn't talk about surprise or no surprise. I talked about an announcement I wanted to make. I did not say 'a stunning announcement'. I said 'a statement'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u109	I agree she's amazing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u110	Here, Mr. Kammenos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u111	I'm being chased by PASOK, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u112	I'll keep you the one minute I've eaten you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u113	Whenever I talk, something's going on with PASOK.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u114	And the river.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u115	And the river, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u116	Here, Mr. Kammenos, you can start.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u117	He's after me. Something's going on with the PASOK and the river! Thank you very much, Mr President. I am very grateful to my colleague from the Centroon Association for agreeing to give up my turn. The Independent Greeks, having made several suggestions in this bill and in relation to the procedures for electronic transactions, have said to all the suggestions - and I will not eat you time - that we are voting in favour of this article. It's a very important bill. I will stay in two - three points which are important. I just have to explain to the Minutes a little bit: Articles 32 and 33 concern the tax treatment of the asset injection, which has never been solved either by tax or financial means. It created a very big problem in company transfers, in values and in gains. It was difficult to calculate the gains too, so that the taxmakers would also make a sum and the way they would be taxed. This process has been unleashed for too many years. For EPRD it is very important for us to pass through and vote in favour of the article, because it must have this kind of treatment, because, as I said in my earlier introduction, EPRD gives a very important certification of confidence in the Greek economy wherever it participates. Let me remind you that she has participated and has decided to participate in future projects and many projects in Greece and on the basis of her certification, other investors are asked indirectly to follow and take the risk of each investment. So it is very important that we manage its participation and the taxes of the European Bank for Reconstruction. As far as DPRK is concerned, as I said the previous time in my introduction, beyond any populism, but objectively in view of the role of the Public Debt Management Agency, which has to be managed on a daily and weekly basis by the end of debt, debt restructuring, debt recycling and debt debt payments every year, it is so important work, so dangerous and stressful where I have said, because I happen to have done this work for some years abroad, that I consider it very reasonable and I am voting in favour, knowing of the "a" and "e" of this job, its risk and its seriousness, to increase the pay for the Public Debt Management Agency. Let me tell you something else. Because the agreement will come after the end of the assessment very soon within the month and the debate on the Greek debt management with the partners, the role of the Public Debt Management Agency is extremely serious and strategic. If there are no technocrats, not only on the basis of biographics, but on the basis of real practical experience on the Greek debt management screens, then the Greek Government will not have the information it needs and the strategy and knowledge to manage by itself and build its arguments on any proposal that comes on the table for the management of the Greek debt, which will come in combination with the reduction of the primary surpluses in the future. Here I would like to make a small parentheses and say that the interest we pay every year in the public debt service is clearly paid by the primary surplus. This is a very important figure, an indicator that shows us that at the moment 2%, 1.75% or 3.5% of the time and in 2019 it is up to 180-182 billion euros of GDP or 187 billion if growth comes as we expect it, and it goes and pays interest and nothing else. To say that we will reduce the primary surplus, we must, as you can see, in the equation to reduce the interest per year, that is, from 7 or 6.5 or 6 billion a year, drop to 3.5.4 billion, so that it takes a lesser surplus to pay a lower interest rate. This whole process will take place with the new debt restructuring, with the grace periods, the reduction of interest rates, the swaps that we will be doing with the bonds that the European Central Bank has, so that the debt relief per year falls, so that we can now say that we need less to pay the debt. For this job, DPRK is purely for. So, as you understand from my brief arguments, it is very important that we move on and that there be corresponding fees for good reasons. I would also like to discuss the amendment to the deferred bank tax, which I consider to be extremely important. This arrangement ensures that when we make regulation of red loans, which have exceeded 106 billion, 107 billion, 180 billion at the moment - let's say that sixty of them or seventy can be put into the restructuring basket, because many of them are too old and are unacceptable for recovery and regulation, I will not go into this debate - in any way that has been planned under the regulations of the European Central Bank, the SSM and the Bank of Greece - that the supervisory funds of the bank will not be at risk. I am referring to the funds we fought for, when they got tired of the PSI and we borrowed after the EFSF, to cover the haircut of the assets. We also made two more banks' recapitalisations to have a certain percentage of supervisory capital. By going to the deferred tax for a period of 20 years, this curve of accountancy of the deferred tax and tax charged on the company is normal, so that no impact on the supervisory capital is seen and practically no further recapitalisation is needed. But this is a solution here, and it answers why we support and why we vote with a voice on the deferred tax on this amendment. From that point on, the extrajudicial bill came in yesterday. It's a very big government success. Let me say that after seven years of monuments and destruction of the Greek economy - where we received 83 billion red loans in 2015, when at the end of 2008 the red loans in Greece were 22 billion - that is, until we came to the government, increased the loans by about 63 billion euros. It is not a number of'red' loans. When we say'red' loan, we talk about'red' businesses, with a million employees, who have extraly lost their jobs, along with the entrepreneurs who have lost their jobs. This whole equation is very difficult to solve. It's a wonder why nothing five or six years of memorial has happened. Why didn't a bill come that will regulate red loans? I tell you that the red loans started 22 billion and by 2015, when the government of SYRIZA - Independent Greeks came to the government, they became 83 billion. In their term of office, they increased by 62 to 63 billion. They could together with the institutions - because there is the cognitive object, there is the knowhow - to have brought a bill to regulate red loans. We're coming to do this. Unfortunately, because the economy is not simple photographs - today is 60 billion, tomorrow is 60 billion red loans - but it is a dynamic process - unemployed world, directly and indirectly loss of income from natural persons, families, households, businesses, creditors, banks and, more importantly, from the public by indirect taxes and people who could collect from all these red loans created - a booze is now entering. There are comments on this bill that have come to improve. We will sometime present as Independent Greeks and some proposals for what we think is better. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] I would ask the deferred person, since he goes through this bill today and the deferred tax, which helps regulate the red loans and the banks' funds, that we all come to Parliament to bring forward proposals for this extremely important bill of extrajudicial compromise so that growth can come to Greece. Because by starting the banks' red loans, it will become better and the Greek economy will be given positions where they do not exist. There's the will of the government. The biggest and most important example was the case of Marinopoulos, where only on the initiative of this government, while years after 2012 and 2013, which were billions of the group's debts to the banks, we came and resolved it and did not damage the public. They're tired, they're obsessed with debts. We saved eleven thousand jobs. That means adjusting a red loan. This means managing a red loan and a private debt. We are also doing this important tool as a structure in the Greek Government, that the state, individuals, creditors and workers are coming to the table and everyone is doing and making contributions, so as to implement the country's development plan and not destroy the economy. The government has also brought us this solution, and it is an extremely healthy and important boulevard for the future. Mr President, I will comment on something last, and I shall end. Ladies and gentlemen, I will comment on two parts of the amendments which we will discuss. One has to do with the building partnerships we have had a lot of discussion with Mr Alexiadis earlier and with the honourable Mrs Papanatziou. It is an issue that has to be resolved. We're giving the extension. There's a lot of inconsistency in this whole process. There are hundreds of thousands of our Greek fellow citizens who receive dividends in building cooperatives. There is the distortion that HNPH is going to the president, who has nothing to do with the ENPIA of the whole cooperative and comes to him 300,000, 400,000 from TAXIS and you understand the consequences, not to plunder it now. We need to regulate and solve all matters slowly. This government will solve it because it has found it. It hadn't happened. We've got it. And within the economic narrowness and within the tolerance of the households and all the people in Greek society, the economic distortions of the past years, not only of the memoranda, but decades, I would say, especially with the Land registers and the building cooperatives, are added. We will also be voting in favour of the Ministry of Tourism's amendment on coproduction and advertising programmes, because it is something that the private sector is helping, so as to help the state in the heavy industry that is the tourism sector. In conclusion, I have a comment on the amendment that has been tabled by Mr Kararas in relation to the Swiss franc. It's a very sensitive conversation. It is a very important debate, involving tens of thousands of Greek citizens. I've done too many meetings over the last two years with people. We must say here, however, what the rules of involvement are, which we say on economics and what we have on the table. We have to find a way - because I said before we regulate the loans - how and why we make the deferred tax, how the extrajudicial compromise has come to complete them so that the banks do not lose any supervisory capital, and we should regulate the red loans of the Swiss franc - and not just red ones, there are others that are served, but are served on wrong terms, very expensive, almost half or a little less than half - not to now affect these banks' supervisory funds. We'll have to find a gold incision. It's not easy. We are in consultation with both banks and the Association of Greek Banks. We simply need to know that Greece's law has also been made, namely No.4338/28-11-2016, where the directive of the European Union incorporates Article 22, that there is no retroactiveness. It will apply whatever we can do as members of the European Union since the 2014 directive that we incorporated, for any foreign currency loan, into a housing and everything else, any foreign currency, any exchange rate with the euro goes on to a loan programme that is particularly treated, favourable and anything, from the day of application of the law and then has no backwardness. I have discussed this technically and legally with Mr Carras, who is more specific to me in Greek law - I know a little about economic law - to find the best solution. And I say we have to find a solution. We will support the amendment. Once we find the solution, how we will overcome the retrospectiveness and see how we will help the Greek taxpayers, who have had their hair, too - for too many years, from the destruction of the Greek economy, which we are now trying to resolve. So we need to help the household's available income, which will bring peace to the family, and which will eventually bring growth and consumption, better living conditions. But it will also bring better conditions of market psychology, which is also the most important factor for a economy to go well, for a country to go well, along with the certainty that our government creates - with the great deal of work it does on all the bills - so that we can build the certainty, close the evaluation and go down to Greece. Because I think the Greeks deserve it, if anything, more than all Europeans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u118	Thank you Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos, special speaker of the Independent Greeks. We move to the last of the special speakers, Mr. George Amyras, a special speaker from Potami. Here, Mr. Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I had the pleasure of a few years of my life, of schoolchildren, of living in Thessaloniki for my father's jobs, and we were on our way. Then we went to "Palais de Sports", "Alexandrio", and we were watching and we were happy with basketball, Galis in his glory. So when Mars put a hundred points, we were all yelling at the stands: "A hundred, a hundred, a dove, a hundred". Today, what are we going to say here, when you tabled the millennium amendment to this parliamentary term? Do you think so? Thousands of amendments so far by the government and the ruling party, of course, on matters of major importance, concerning matters that need special regulation, in depth and not in the well-known procedure of the amendments, the process of'spray, wipe and finish'. An amendment has been tabled a little earlier, but it is still too late. And it is not a simple amendment. It's Britannica. And there are five ministers, five huge issues that are being dealt with. I would mention to you, ladies and gentlemen, if you have time and opportunity, what it means, for example, to cover the national part of the public investment programme of the Ministry of Infrastructure, Mr Spirtzi, that is to say, the grant of the concessionaire for the Corinth - Tripoli - Kalamata project and the 'Lefktro - Sparta' sector. So we're going through these issues with an amendment to the leg at the last minute? I remain in Britannica of the amendments, the mother of all the amendments, the millennium amendment of this government. Here it has a Ministry of Tourism on the education and training of workers, of seasonal unemployed persons with the possibility of being covered by the national part of the public investment programme. Is this how we will talk about tourism, how we will train tourist officials, or how we will deal with unemployment with porn amendments? Excuse me, of course, I am referring to the word. These things can't be done. Half the Ministerial Council is being gathered in an amendment. As I told you, Mr. Spirtzis for the streets and the concessionaire's subsidy. We have Mrs Koudoura for the Ministry of Tourism, as I have told you, where a part of this amendment refers. All this in an amendment. Third, immigration service, overtime. Fourthly, overtime now for other staff, of the ESDP special services, that is, Mr Haritsis. In the same amendment, another Minister, Mr Juliarakis. The autonomous programming, coordination, monitoring and implementation of the European Economic Area financial instruments are repealed. You cannot do so, ladies and gentlemen of the government. You mean that we will vote against this amendment, since it is five in one, half of the cabinet, on matters of serious, delay, without debate, without adequate justification in our view. We're negative for the only way he came. Now let's go to the rest. We are now discussing the incorporation into national legislation of the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on the comparability of fees linked to payment accounts in relation to banks. So we say: What banks are there today in Greece? What is the situation after three recapitalisations, i.e. after their strengthening and the kiss of life that all the taxpayers through their hype and taxation gave them the banks to exist and leave the narrow and gray area of the ghost? So we have banks three times recapitalised. And within the last two and a half months, they left so much money as the banks had collected in a year, in 2016. They have, in other words, left EUR 4 billion over the last two and a half months. That was about the money they had collected from returning some climate of confidence by depositors. The role of the banks is you know that, unfortunately, it is not fulfilled by the conditions, in fact: an assessment that is not closed, a situation of total investment apnea and abundance. And next to them we have the overtaxation of businesses, we have the unregulated red loans that their volume is now in danger of attracting healthy businesses at the bottom of the well, we have a tickdown, we have a really kick of entrepreneurship in Greece. All of this is signed, they have a name: Alexis Tsipras and Panos Kammenos. I heard Mr. Skourletis at SKAI saying about PPC this morning. And he was talking about a fixed competition, about a resalto - I note - and a dealer of interests who want to sell PPC, or are in charge of PPC's future. Fifty-three on the other hand, they leaked that yes, they support Skourlet. What theater of political irrationality do we live in? Head of the fifty-three, Mr. Chakalotos. Mr. Tsakalotos negotiates with the lenders for the future of PPC. Mr. Skourletis, on the other hand, lifts up an insurgent, probably for the eyes of the world still following SYRIZA, because in the end he said that decisions were collective and would follow. Mr. Tsakalotos negotiates and brings a plan for PPC, as Mr. Skourletis said, disastrous for PPC, but also the same man as a representative of fifty-three indirects he opposes himself. Is this or isn't that a theater of irrationality? Is the country going forward like this if we don't press in clear words, if we don't find the fields of mutual understanding of all the political forces, so we can go a little further? Ladies and gentlemen, I now come to the remarks on the bill. In the first part, namely Articles 1 to 26, we are in agreement. I have here, of course, a number of comments which I had made during the committees' meetings, and I will slowly start them one by one. First of all, I make a more general comment. The incorporation of this European directive is good, it is good, because it corrects the lack of transparency and comparability of payment fees. It also covers difficulties in changing a payment account that posed problems for the consumer and, respectively, contributed to low competition in the retail banking sector. The Directive, therefore, provides for an obligation for payment service providers to provide the consumer on an annual basis with all the fees they have paid. Article 5 of the draft law refers to at least a quarterly basis. I think that is a good thing. I'm not telling you about negative. In Article 7 of the Directive, comparison websites can manage them either by a private body or a public authority. Article 7 of the draft law defines the Bank of Greece as a competent authority. I don't know if this has anything to do with the government's allergy to anything private. Article 17 of the bill provides for a joint decision of the Ministers for Economy, Development and Finance, which this decision can require credit institutions in Greece to provide in the context of the payment account and additional services from the main banks. This is not provided for in the directive. I'd like to know why you joined it. Furthermore, Article 17 of the Directive, not provided for in Article 17 of the draft law, provides for the possibility for Member States to allow credit institutions to allow consumers to overtake. It has not been transposed into us, I mean, national law, this legislation. I'd like to know why. I suspect, of course, but I do not want to take responsibility for it. Article 18 of the bill provides for something that is not provided for in Article 18 of the Directive. What's that? A reasonable fee for providers to offer services to payment accounts with some basic features. The criteria for determining these fees are the national level of income and the average fees charged by credit institutions in Greece for these services. I have also told the committees that the average is quite higher than the corresponding European fee and credit institutions' charges in Greece, so that the reasonable fee will not be very reasonable, but will be more friendly to the high charges, which the banks have so far been accustomed to obliging traders to pay with them. I also go a little in the bill where the provisions of Articles 24, 25 and 28 of the Directive are not included. It has some important things to do with the directive in these articles, but you have not incorporated it into the draft law and I am surprised why this is happening: it is the alternative solution to disputes. It is an important point for alternative dispute resolution. Why have you eliminated it? Also, the mechanism in the event of a refusal to pay an account, but for which a fee is paid. Finally, the review provided for by the Directive, following a report from the Committee to the European Parliament and the Council, on the implementation of the Directive. Now I'm going to the second part of the draft law. The second part of the draft law is a 'pool of Eden', perhaps also of Babel, because it has heirous things. It has wage issues for civil servants and officials, taxation issues, issues of ECHO. Article 27 refers to the cover of expenditure, payroll, extracts and transfers of officials, supervised bodies. It creates a financial cost, not only for the one year in which the secondment or transfer takes place and settles certain technical conditions for mobility, in general throughout the State sector and not just in the institutions which are subsidised by the budget. Article 29, which has been a great deal of talk, is the article which doubles the remuneration of the Director-General and his deputy to the Public Debt Management Agency. We are firmly opposed to this. Not in double pay. This increase in their remuneration will cause - we fear - multiplier effects for other important services, such as independent authorities, administrative authorities, audit bodies and other legal persons. I would therefore like us to know that we are paving the way for other senior public administration officials to double their remuneration. Is it 2017 era to double the Greek public salaries of appointed, chosen by the Government of persons to understand these positions? I don't think so. Come and harmonize yourself with what is going on outside in real life and the real economy and society. In Article 30 we shall also vote 'no'. Modify Public Accountancy: Instead of limiting, increase the exceptions to electronic document handling. Why are you doing this? So where do we live? Do we still live in protocol, stamp and paperwork? Here we should follow the example of other countries, such as Estonia, for example, which has an electronic file, an online link between all services and the citizen's transactions with the public. Why don't we do it and bring exceptions that we say "from e-management is excluded from this and so is the other". This is a sloppy task, which destroys the objective of the universal application of public accounting, so also public control. I will come, because time is running out, some more articles. Article 31 regulates internal organisation and internal audit systems of the ECE. It's in the right direction, so you don't think I'm only criticizing you with negative springs. Not at all. However - and if you want to listen to us - it does not present the necessary guarantees of objectivity and transparency, since at the end of the day it is the Minister who will decide on all these issues, namely how many companies and what internal control companies we are talking about, what services are covered by this regulation, what costs it entails for the budget. Here, some of the first questions. I'm gonna skip some articles. It goes without saying that we also agree with Article 32, which we consider to be a positive legislative development, and with Article 33, which corrects what was doubled - the tax procedure is provided for. We see Article 34 positively, as well as the remaining 35 and 36. Ladies and gentlemen, I will talk about the amendments later. I have already given you an initial picture of how I understand these issues. In the meantime, I see Mr. Vitsa and I'm worried. Why are you here, Mr. Vitsa? What is the amendment that you have come to support? Are you the millimeter first? Are you going to ride?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u120	You'll find out soon, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u121	I'll find out soon, Your Honor. Sure. We just have a very good communication with Mr. Vitsa and that's why humor allows me a little bit. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that the draft law has some good, positive elements. He's got a few negatives too. I am very concerned about how to legislate by means of amendments. You can't go to Kalamata via Thebes. You go directly from the Athens-Kalamatas National Road. I think the government should look at not compromising itself and breaking its own record of the thousand amendments at one session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u122	Thank the special speaker from the river.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u123	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u124	Madam Minister, would you or Mr. Deputy Minister please give the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u125	I would like to say a few things about the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u126	Yes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u127	I would like to give some information on the amendments and see the government's legislative work from the past to today. Year 2014: Fifty-six adopted bills. Year 2015: thirty-seven adopted bills. Year 2016: Ninety-one passive bills. We have a very big increase in the bills passed by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u128	It was all Sanctions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u129	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u130	In 2015, a hundred thirty amendments were tabled to twenty-four bills for a total of thirty-four. For 2014, two hundred sixty-seven amendments were tabled to forty-eight bills for a total of fifty-six. Three hundred amendments were tabled for 2016 in ninety-one bills.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u131	Government.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u132	If we look at the average, the average for 2015 is 3,82, for 2016 is 3,3, while for 2014 it was 4,77.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u133	Are they governmental or are they also parliamentary?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u134	These are government. You don't put the parliamentarians on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u135	They are also the Members of Parliament, they are all the amendments in them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u136	They're not all. You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u137	The large majority concerns arrangements with a positive social figure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u138	All right!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u139	They're actually voted by a majority and they're not just voted by the government. There are indeed some issues that are urgent, some of which need to be resolved through urgent procedures, and some which also need to be completed for evaluation. In this sense, there are the amendments. Let me mention here, for example, the payment of the thirteenth pension, the VAT on the islands and too many other amendments that have been passed lately. I would also like to put forward some legislative improvements, since I have taken the floor, Mr President. First of all, I will say about Amendment No 988, with a special number of 146, which is an amendment from our Ministry for the audits carried out by the Independent Public Income Authority. As for the same on-the-spot audit, the store is closed for 48 hours. From there on, apart from the number of evidence, there is also a limit of EUR 500. If the same year is repeated, it shall be closed for at least 96 hours for at least three documents and ten days for the next two years. In the specific provision of paragraph 8 of the new Article, a regulation is introduced, according to which, after all, categories of obligors identified - I shall refer to legal improvements - the Minister of Finance is suspended by decisions taken by decisions taken by decision of the Minister of Finance and, where appropriate, the submission of a specific penalty, i.e. certain categories of professionals, will be excluded. Instead of the decision of the commander of an independent authority, we have the decision of the Minister of Finance. The regulation was deemed necessary since the suspension of a professional establishment was made difficult for certain undertakings because of the nature of the activity. For example, we have hired pleasure boats, travellers, nursing home, hotel, internship, infirmary. In these cases we cannot close it. There's just gonna be a financial penalty. I shall also mention the legislative improvements to this amendment. In the first paragraph of Article 26 of this draft law, the words ‘from 18 September 2016’ shall be replaced by ‘from their publication in the Official Journal of the Government’. This has been mentioned by some other colleagues. In the second paragraph of Article 26, at the end of the case, the word ‘and’ and the word ‘e’ shall be deleted. in the seventh subparagraph of paragraph 4 of Article 4 of Law 3429/2005, as replaced by paragraph 4 of Article 31 of Chapter B of this draft law, the words ‘by the register referred to in paragraph...’ shall be replaced by ‘by the register referred to in the first subparagraph of that paragraph’. Also, in the last subparagraph of paragraph 2 of Article 22 of Law No 3699/2008, as replaced by paragraph 2a of the proposed amendment, the words ‘of the previous paragraph’ shall be replaced by ‘of the preceding subparagraph’. It concerns Mr Gavroglou's amendment, with a general number of 983 and a specialist of 145. In Amendment No 988 and in the first subparagraph of paragraph 8 of Article 13a of Law 2523/1997, as added by paragraph 1 of the proposed provision of this amendment, the words ‘determined by decisions of the Governor of the Independent Public Revenue Authority’ shall be deleted. Secondly, paragraph 13a of Article 13a of Law 2523/1997, as added by paragraph 1 of the proposed provision of this amendment, is replaced by ‘13a. By decision of the Minister of Finance, the categories of the debtors referred to in paragraph 8 shall be identified, as I analysed before. And ‘b. The decision of the Governor of the Independent Public Revenue Authority shall determine the type of tax control in which the measure of suspension and specific financial penalty is imposed, as well as the manner, procedure, institutions and any details necessary for the application of this Article.’;
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Undersecretary. I would ask that they be distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u141	Mr President, could we ask?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u142	Yes, Mr. Amyras, ask.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u143	Minister, if the professionals accept payment of the fine charged to them on the basis of the alleged infringement, is it counted on their possible subsequent resumption within the same or in a subsequent year? That was the one I wanted to ask. Secondly, what is happening in the case of the professions that you have said the suspension of operation is considered difficult because of their seasonal nature? I want to make a footnote here: A business like this, for example, renting a jet ski, anyway, is only working during the season. Is he going to save the lock because it's just seasonal? Finally, I see in the explanatory statement that some professions and activities are selectively mentioned. Should there be a clear indication of these professions to avoid such ambiguities? And if I understand correctly, does "responsibility" pass by the Commander of the Independent Authority to the Minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u144	Madam Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u145	And pay someone won't be able to shut down the store in cases where all the violations mentioned above have been committed. In the case of professions where we do not have the closure of businesses, it will be by ministerial decision, as you well understood with the legislative improvement we have brought to the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u146	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u147	Will the ministerial decision define the professions?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u148	Yes, a ministerial decision will define the professions to be excluded.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u149	Good. Mr Dimitrios Vitsas, Deputy Minister for National Defence, has the floor to say about the amendment that Mr Amyras has made.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u150	Mr. Amyras, you know it's very good, and I hope you do it, too, to incorporate the humour into our lives. So I want to present an amendment from the Ministry of National Defence, hoping at the same time that I will not force you to go to Pale de Sport and start shouting. That's what I mean. It is the amendment with a general number 994 and a special number 152. You are aware of the announcement by Prime Minister and Minister of National Defence of the concession of the camp Pavlos Mela in the Municipality of Pavlos Mela in Thessaloniki. Within this space there is a property. It is referred to as an OAEC. Not to tell you why it's complicated. The property belongs indivisible to the ETHA, the National Defence Fund and the Ministry of Finance. With this amendment, the Treasury grants its own part to the Treasury, so that the TEHA as the only gentleman can grant the prefecture, that is, for 99 years in the municipality of Paul Mela. We believe that this is the fastest and best way for the municipality to start using the area, to be able to help the region of Central Macedonia and also to join ESDP programmes, etc. On the other hand, in exchange, one would say, they are given by the Municipality of Paul Mela eighty three houses in property now of the HETH. I hope that in a year's time repairs will be completed for the eighty-three houses. So, in a direct way we will be able to resolve issues relating to the residence of officers, officers, etc. I think it is the most appropriate solution. Any other solution, such as the ones that had previously been proposed and had been rejected by the municipality, the inhabitants or the environmental movements of the region, whatever they were, would require a change in town planning, new town planning, etc. So this whole process would start now - we're proud to start now - but the exploitation of the area would take place after too many years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Deputy Minister of National Defence, Mr. Vitsa. To give the floor to Mr Haritsis, Deputy Minister of Economy and Development, to speak of the amendment he has tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr President. Article 1 of the amendment to the effect that it concerns the provision of contractual obligations by the Greek State for operating costs in relation to the integrated work of the Corinth - Tripoli motorway - Kalamata and the Lefktro - Sparta sector. Through this amendment we can cover part or all of these costs from the national part of the public investment programme, as these costs for co-financing by the NRP are not eligible. These are in relation to Article 1.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u153	Who's the concessionaire, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u154	What is the level of expenditure?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u155	That would be the next question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u156	To conclude, if you want to present the amendment and ask what you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u157	Let him tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u158	Why do you keep getting in the way?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u159	What about me?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u160	Yeah, you. Does every Minister need an attorney?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u161	Let's just finish asking him.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u162	What's to end? Ten pages of amendment, again?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u163	However, we cannot go any further. Please. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u164	We do not always have to proceed, Mr President, with such procedures.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u165	If you have a little patience, we'll move on properly.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u166	Won't you have the right to place yourself and ask your questions? I don't understand why that tension is now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u167	You'll tell it later, in your place. Go ahead, Mr. Haritsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u168	Article 2 of the amendment. It is a technical arrangement relating to the possibility that the Ministry of Tourism may cover from the national part of the public investment programme expenditure on training, retraining of workers, the seasonal unemployed and the unemployed in the tourism sector. Article 3 concerns the Special Secretariat for the Coordination and Management of Programmes for the Asylum of Immigration and Integration Fund and the Internal Security Fund and other resources. It is the special secretariat that manages the two funds related to refugee and immigration. With the proposed provision, therefore, we are substantially adapting the arrangements with regard to overtime work for the officials of the special service to those who apply to the relevant specific services of the NSRP. The second provision of this article provides that, until the Ministerial Decision is adopted, this special service will also apply, as a result of the abolition of technical assistance No 4/2002, to the authorisation of a Ministerial Decision to administer the technical assistance of the two Funds. Article 4 refers to amendments to the N.4314 for the NRP. Under the first provision, we are essentially simplifying the procedure for the appointment of management intermediaries so that the regions for the MAGPs, the regional authorities, can proceed to the appointment of management intermediaries without the need for a decision of the Minister. In this way, the procedures for the appointment of management intermediaries shall be speeded up. Under the second provision, we shall amend the second paragraph of Article 39 in relation to the selection procedure headed by the ESRB Special Services and the Central Office of the CST. We are actually opening up the system to all CTB staff so that they can become involved in the selection process of specialists. The third provision defines for the first time the procedure for the payment of overtime compensation in application of Law No.4354 applicable to all public and private services of the NSRP. As you know very well, too many times, such as these days, with the closing report to the European Commission, there is a very large workload. We therefore provide for the possibility - whenever necessary - of providing overtime for workers in special services, without any charge of the ordinary budget, at the expense of the Public Investment Programme and of the co-financed programmes. Finally, I should like to say that Article 4 concerns job profiles and where they exist. In fact, here we want to give officials who do not have a pre-responsibility for the special services of the ESDP, who also have the same opportunity as the current heads of administration, to claim responsibility in the selection process of heads. Finally, Article 5 concerns the EEO, the Special Economic Tax. They are also important co-financed programmes that we are managing in addition to the ESRB. We are therefore moving on to the establishment of a special service that has not existed to date, which enables us to deal with problems of subsistence of this Office, which manages significant resources complementary to the ESRB. The establishment of this special service falls within the scope of Law No.4314/2014 in proportion to all specific services of the NSRP. So, here too, the provisions of NSRP No.4314 will be applied. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u169	Thank you to the Deputy Minister of Economy, Mr. Haritsi. The Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Mr Kontonis, has the floor to support his amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment with a general number of 999 and a specialist of 157, which has to do with clear - I think - with technical issues of the Authority which controls and avenges the preliminary actions relating to public procurement. One is the adjustment of the remuneration of the President of the Authority, because we had regulated the constitutionally regulated authorities. So this provision also regulates this question, because a number of issues have arisen. I think that wages were unfairly reduced, where at the end of the day a retired supreme judge was unable to deal with this work for which he had expressed his willingness to deal with, because of the terrible reductions in his wages. The second is that the beginning of the operation is two months, i.e. 31 May 2017, precisely to complete procedural conditions, which are set out in the provision. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Tendia, would you like to speak now or after the speakers?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u172	I'll talk later, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u173	Very good. Mr. Loverdo, if you're ready, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u174	I am not, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u175	Very good. Let's move on with Mr. Dimitras.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u176	The ministers won't talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u177	Aren't we going to ask the ministers about the amendments now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u178	I don't understand. There is no such procedure. The Ministers have tabled the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u179	Mr. Vitsats has brought an amendment and left.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u180	Mr Davakis, you know very well that if a Member - as far as I am at least in the Chair - asks for clarification on the amendments, I give the floor to the Member.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u181	We didn't make it. The Minister's gone.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u182	You weren't.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u183	How wasn't I?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u184	He can come back, so you ask him then.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u185	Mr. Diaras has the floor. The violation of the Rules of Procedure also has limits.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u186	Mr. Kegeroglu, it's not right what you're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u187	I'll talk to you in my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u188	Mr Diaras will be speaking now, and then I will give the floor to Mr Spirtzi for his amendment. Here, Mr. Deiaras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I wanted to address my colleagues on the subject of the many amendments. I believe that the government does not want to legislate with amendments, but there are needs to do so. I do not think any of us want to legislate with amendments. First of all, these are urgent issues and, in fact, they exist and will also exist in the future, such as the one given camp, etc., for which a law cannot be made in the first place. Secondly, there are issues of public administration and problems associated with the functioning of the state, which are de facto forcing us. I think, however, that we should all aim to limit the total number of amendments. It does not mean, in other words, that we adopt this as a practice, because we are talking to the Greek people. We should incorporate logic into the bills, analyse and so move on. I asked him, above all, because there is a major social problem which employs over sixty thousand borrowers and a lot of people who have guaranteed the foreign currency of loans. On the occasion of an amendment made by Mr George Karras, the Independent MEP, I would like to say and highlight this big problem, because there were periods when Greek banks urged borrowers to enter into loans in a Swiss franc because they would have better interest rates. They have concealed from the american and well-measurable borrower the risk of a great burden on possible exchange rate changes. And I say 'hidden', because banks have analysts and they have good estimates of how the exchange rate of the currencies concerned will change in the future. Of course, and only by the supply they have obtained from the conversion of currencies, they have had a lasting benefit. So, then, many american, well - voluntary borrowers fell into the trap. Let's see the size of the problem: In 2007, 1 euro had as much as 1.6 Swiss. In 2017 it's almost 1 to 1, now it's 1 to 1,06, 1,07. What does it mean? One who took a loan of 200,000 euros in 2007, even though he was paying for these years, saw his loan grow too much. The 200,000, therefore, have become 300,000, 50% increase in the amount. And you understand that people unsuspected, who took money to get a home, putting their own funds, reached a dead end. 50% of these have been'red', but also the other 50% that are still maintained, they will reach the world at a dead end. Therefore, we have a great deal of damage, but also a very big social problem, in a large number - tens of thousands - of borrowers, but also guarantors of loans, because if the borrowers are sixty thousand, there are another sixty or fifty thousand of the guarantors. So the banks without being damaged - because they automatically converted the currency into euro and the instalments received in euro - come to a point now to ask for 50% of the loan received by the borrower. So that's not just a profit. It's speculation on the banks side. And then it was prompted by the borrowers, because the banks knew they would be over-profited. And you know that the finest letters of contracts no borrower - even a lawyer to be an engineer - can't read them - there is no room - let alone a ordinary citizen going to get a loan, based on the faith of the banking system, which, unfortunately, betrayed both the borrowers and the entire Greek people, as we arrived today in the way of banks. So today, sixty thousand borrowers are on a complete dead end. The Courts have justified the majority of the appeals. In fact, a collective appeal made - over two thousand - against the Eurobank bank has been won and I think to a second degree avenged in September. Because the government cares about the poor, cares about society, is in the philosophy of the Left, in its political tactics, I think it should go into the problem. I do not know whether today the amendment tabled by Mr Karas can be accepted, but I think - and that is why I insist, and I have taken the floor - that both the government and all the parties must take a stand. I would also ask the New Democracy to take a stand on this issue, because while I have heard from other parties that they consent to finding a solution, I have heard reservations from the New Democracy. I close by saying that the problem with the rules of reason, morality and social sensitivity must be solved, which we must show to these people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, Mr. Dimitras. Mr. Athanasios Bouras has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u191	I do not think, Mr President, that you will be pleased with this repeated process of legislating in this House. Honestly, the violation of the Rules of Procedure has broken. I guess there's no rules at all. This is where we can do whatever we want. Today, I see and welcome them - the whole of the Ministerial Council. Another so long ago in the committee procedure, where whole legislation was introduced into the bill as amendments. It is really regrettable, and on this issue - you have a responsibility as Bureau - to do something. I am not going to spend the time - because of the very small amount of time - on the issues relating to the motto of the bill, as has been formulated by the committee. These issues have been raised, analysed in the best possible way, our rapporteur, Mr Fortsakis. Therefore, all my time I will devote him - I cannot do any more - to one amendment tabled by the Minister of Development - not the Deputy - and it came in the morning and two other amendments of our own Members as MPs in the Region of Attica. I am talking about Amendment No 989 and Amendment No 147. Indeed - and I said this in the morning in the interruption and the procedure given for about a minute - this amendment could be - and it is - in the positive direction in theory. It is an obligation from the OECD toolbox and could be a head office outside the two main markets, Athens and Thessaloniki, markets in other cities in Greece. This would be positive and would enable farmers, producers, fish producers, meat producers, to have their products closer to the place of production, to be managed better and not to be cumulated in the two major urban centres. I said this morning to the Minister of Economy and Development - who is in fact contemptuously dealing with the House, but rather with his colleagues, the other ministers - to withdraw it, which our Parliamentary representative, Mr Denkias, also mentioned, and also with other colleagues from other parties, and to come in a more normal process. I won't have to say she was coming with her normal. Let it come, at least, to be discussed in the committee procedure, where the committee would be able to invite regional directors, mayors, to invite interested market players - and not just producers and to make a better process. That was not accepted by the Minister. I have had the opportunity from yesterday to find the Minister for Rural Development and Food, who told me that he really does not know anything about this when it is his responsibility from construction to management. Therefore, what is going to regulate this amendment today will be incomplete until it is unapplicable. It is one side of the currency because it omits the examination of conditions from the main Ministry that controls and supervises, but also finances, through the ESDP, the Operational Programme for Rural Development - the Deputy Minister is here - responsible for managing any funds. However, there is a lack of substantial signature. But I'll tell you, Mr. Papanatsiou, that we have a typical omission here today. Amendment 989/147 does not even have the signature of the Minister of Finance in a bill being discussed. I wonder whether there are no counsellors who advise on self-evident, the formal and not the essential thing I have said, the existence of the assent. Because I don't know if the Minister for Rural Development and Food agrees. Normally, then, we need to get two more signatures. And the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Rural Development. Also required - read the setting - detailed layout and operation specifications to avoid uncontrolled operation. This is the right direction in which it can move and be effective and at the end of the day the legislative initiative will become active. Furthermore, one thing I would point out to be written in the Minutes is that I would like to see the compliance of this amendment with competition rules of European law - that is, if it falls under State aid rules - by the Legislative Committee. I absolutely believe that this amendment has been drafted very quickly. It requires a large number of other arrangements, and I fear that every week we will also have an addition to this amendment, which, with the government majority, can be a law article. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like a little more time, Mr President, because I have taken some time to judge you for the implementation of the regulation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u192	Yes, but soon, please. We must not be overrun.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u193	Yeah. Not many speakers. Can I tell you something? With so many amendments, with what logic can everyone stand and stand - why do we have some responsibility - against what we are voting on or do we not vote on? We have tabled two amendments, Madam Minister of Finance. In fact, colleagues from the other parties have tabled similar, similar amendments, not excluding the SYRIZA government party. The first amendment, the amendment with a general number 995 and a special number 153, refers to the suspension of the collection of fines until the forestry maps are validated. At the moment, many residents of the area of Laureate - a multipathic area - have months to sleep because they receive papers that invite them to pay exterminated fines. One is this 995/15. The other amendment, 996/154, refers to the amendment and addition of Article 19 of Law No 719/1977. You all know the story. In the area of Lavrio with the quarry, etc. There was the process of some property to prevent uncontrolled exploitation of slag and evacuation from I.B. Serpieri. At that time, the Municipality of Lavrio, based in Keratea, also had the administrative boundaries in the area that today has two municipalities, Saronicos and Lavreotikos. The areas under dispute were the largest part of the Laurent peninsula and are described by relevant bodies, masters, topographers and the Forest Directorate. The provisions of Article 19 of Law No 719/1977, as supplemented, dealt with the resolution of this problem, but the following topics have arisen: While Article 19 of Law No 719 abolished certain judicial decisions which were unfavourable to residents, this law limited the application of a solution and of the right of residents only to the limits of the municipality of Kerate. I won't say it was by omission or anything. We are therefore proposing, today, with this amendment - which is thoroughly written - the extension of the application of Article 19 of Law No 719/1977 as amended and supplemented - not to say these things, they are detailed in terms of the area of Laureate today of the Municipality of Laureate which includes the Municipality, the old, Keratea and the Municipality of Lavrios, but also of the Municipality of Saronicos, which is the old Communities of Agios Konstantinos, Paleas Fotias, Anavysos, Kalyvias. In this way there will be a vindication of these things. And I have to say to you - and I would like to end by thanking the President for his tolerance - that this is why we have sat many hours on all the parties, with the presence of Mr Filipou's Vice-President of Eastern Attica, who has been mayor for over twenty years in the region of California - and we have agreed. That is a very fair request. And I believe that all of us agree to resolve this issue, you can accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Mr. Bourra. Before I give Mr Loverdos the floor, Mr Spirtz will speak very soon about an amendment too. Here, Mr. Spirtzi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u195	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, to date the airport development fee is EUR 12 for passengers with the final destination of airports from the European Union and some additional countries and EUR 22 for countries outside the European Union. With the concession of the fourteen airports in their contract, we have that airport development fees are set at EUR 12 and from November 2024 onwards to EUR 3. It follows from this that the need for a legislative determination of the airport development fee to be uniform.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u196	We can't hear you, Minister, and we don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u197	So to date airport modernisation and development charges amounted to EUR 12 for airports located in European Union countries and EUR 22 for countries outside.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u198	Who's paying for this?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u199	The passenger pays for it today. Following the concession of the fourteen airports it appears that this fee is 12 euros uniform for all countries within and outside the European Union and 3 euros from 1 November 2024 onwards for all flights again. EUR 12 and EUR 22 are EUR 12 and from 1 November 2024 it becomes EUR 3. It follows from this that the need for legislative determination of the airport modernisation and development charge is to be uniform for all airports in the country. We cannot, in other words, have at fourteen euros in a few years' time 3 euros and the rest of us having 12 euros and 22 euros outside the European Union. This is therefore in line with the amendment we are amending and going for all, within and outside the European Union, EUR 12 and EUR 1 November 2024 3 for all airports in the country. That is the amendment. The second Article provides for exemptions which existed beforehand. Mr President, I would also like to make a legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u200	Are you telling us the number of the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u201	It will be distributed, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u202	The amendment has been shared. It is the number 997/155, which has been filed on 28 March. A legislative improvement is that it is provided for within the amendment by the Ministerial Decision of the Ministry of Transport and it will be a Joint Ministerial Decision with the Ministry of Finance because it concerns fees. That's legal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u204	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u205	Mr. Amyras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u206	So, Mr Minister, is it safe to conclude that the privatisation of the fourteen airports did good in the passenger pocket? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u207	Do you want to answer, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u208	Of course I will. Depends on what perspective you see, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u209	On the passenger side.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u210	Listen, the passenger is also a citizen, Mr. Amyras, and he pays taxes. If you separate him from the citizen and separate his properties and say he is another citizen - a passenger and another citizen - a taxpayer, the citizen - has a profit, the citizen - I do not think he is.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u211	Clearly, the answer. Mrs Kouturas, let us ask Mr Loverdos for permission if your position on the amendment is too short.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u212	Very short.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u213	Please have my permission to precede.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u214	Thank you. The amendment is Amendment 998/156 and it comes with a view to Law 32770, which defines what commercialization and co-production are, to be implemented by our supervised body, the EOT, and to be able to act in a law to implement the procedure and the payment. Since Article 47 of Law 4412 was repealed, which laid down how to implement, they have no legal place to press to implement. In other words, it says exactly what this agreement is about: The agreement on co-financing and co-production, in order for it to be implemented, must be proposed by the Secretary-General, through the officials, to press on with the legislation which says how it is implemented, approved by the board of directors of the EOT, to pass a pre-contractual check, to go to the Court of Auditors and then, in the way in which the payment procedure will be determined, to get the warrant for payment. This amendment, therefore, comes to fill this gap in the implementation of co-production, which unfortunately has become void with the abolition of Article 47. It doesn't change anything, it's not new legislation. It is old legislation that simply says how to implement payment and procedure. Simple as that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty-seven students and students and four teachers' attendants from the 5th Sparta Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We proceed to the Parliamentary Representative of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos for 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u216	Mrs Papanatsiou, I should like to begin with Mr Arvanitides' suggestion, where he accepted, in principle, your legislative intervention to incorporate Directive 2014/92 of the European Union and also to add from the outset that you are right to regulate the issues in Article 28, but in the sense of the addition that has been filed and which concerns employees who are serving in TEs technical branches, technical workers, and who do not have a TEs or any other relevant TEs diploma and are evolving wages in TEs in the class TEs. It is a proper intervention and it is adopted by us too. And since we jointly adopt sound regulations, I would ask you to see what Mr Bourras said before, in the form of the amendment tabled by Mrs Christophilopoulou, concerning the property regime in the Municipality of Laureate, because your Members who are proposing an amendment to you do not recommend the full amendment. I would therefore ask you to accept Mrs Christophilopoulou's amendment, where she leaves the limits of the suspension of elimination protocols and fines which she has to do with your own amendment, and which covers the whole question of the absence of any loose ends. Mr. Bourra, I think the placement was parallel. There is, therefore, one attitude from all the sides of the House, which the State Secretary must take advantage of. As we talk about amendments, I would like to mention, ladies and gentlemen, an amendment with which the Democratic Reconciliation does not agree at all. And you were here, Madam Secretary, when Mr Gavroglou said this morning, in a very civilised debate with the Democratic Alliance and the Potami, Mr Amyras, he explained to us the arrangements he has put forward, and you adopt, for the Deputy Professors. I don't know if there's an instructor in the Chamber. I see Professor Marda and the President is also a teacher, a university. I feel obliged to speak as a teacher and as a Minister of Education, whose regulation you are amending. It's time to say things with their name on the issues of deputy professors. Ladies and gentlemen, when, not only did I hire the alternates, but by breaking every record, I hired them on time, being a "fresh" Minister for Health of two months, dealing with what I had from the SYRIZA was not what we are today - I disagree with the amendment, perfect and clean - but they were complaints and promises through the responsible education of the SYRIZA, that when they come to the government, that is, you will now abolish the substitutes, take over for all the positions of teachers and teachers on permanent education and without the SAP. Do you hear that? And without SAPA! I have participated in election political dialogue and his colleague SYRIZA said that. How can I deal with him? After he was lying. What can I say? I was saying I took them on time. The others took them five months later. I'm the one who rushed. And the answer was, ladies and gentlemen, 'No, they should all be permanent and without an APA'. That's what they said. I remember going to the Municipality of Aigaleo at the beginning of the school year at a school event as a Minister of Education. He welcomes me as a deputy, appointed in time, and it was very cold. I say to her: 'Counselor, why are you like this?' He tells me: “Why is nine months not enough for me. I want to get married. I cannot be a nine-month salaryr and three-no." I told her that the system cannot be recruited at the moment, but if the process that we had opened then with the troika is completed, we will receive ten thousand permanent and will become the appointments of ten thousand. We cannot, ladies and gentlemen, have no substitutes. Because there are gaps in the middle of the year. The institution is useful, not to the extent it currently has, but is useful to both children and parents and teachers. Your refusal was universal. You were stepping on a problem to lie. Two years later, six months after you took over, not only did you not apologize, not only did you not say: 'My child, I did not understand', but you come today to change those fair arrangements for substitutes, speaking of the institution of assistant teachers and teachers - listen to me - as if it were self-evident, while saying the opposite. You come here, say you make him better. For you are abolishing the service of what has worked for children, going to schools that are, as Mr Gavroglou rightly said, once on a remote Aegean island and the other on a mountainous volume of Thessaly. She's become a teacher with two children in Kastelorizo, who was one of the Trikalas, whose nine hundred euros looked like something, and she's resting on it to help her family. In our difficulties, with an educational system with problems, we have solved issues and had the trumpets from above lie and you come here and talk, as if everything were self-evident, everything was nice. As if you don't understand that people are listening to you and judging you. He judges too much of what you say, too much of what you say and, above all, determines what you are doing. As we speak of education, on the basis of the Gavroglou amendment, we read yesterday in Kathimerini about the blind student of physics in Thessaloniki, who was not accepted by his department. My colleague, Amyras, remembers this and I thank my colleague very much. A few have these sensitivities. He wasn't accepted by his department. I intervened and accepted. I arranged for that. I didn't expect or wait. Why am I doing the report? To tell you what was good for me? Oh, no. Because this blind child, who finally studied, is done and mastered at his postgraduates. He's got his postgraduate. [[Applause]] And I was moved when Mr Lakasas, the journalist of Kathimerini, remembered yesterday. I don't care if he mentions me, I don't need it. I'm on my own. But I care for the fact that he remembered the subject and that kid went forward. It's the second time he's been fighting it. The first time another section had refused him and they said "Don't go to Physics, who wants experiments and you can't, because you don't see". He was telling them "I can!" And they called him "go to another department you don't need your eyesight", in Mathematics I think. And there's this kid. But today the same newspaper, Kathimerini, has a front page, I think, concerning the refusal of the Ministry of Education - I am standing at the Ministry of Education - to accept the operation of a foreignlanguage department in the EMCDDA of a postgraduate foreignlanguage student with a tuition fee. I can't believe it! Even the friend, extremist SYRIZA, had accepted our own thoughts. He did not know, of course, that we had legislated and Mr Baltas' leadership denied them and said that it was an interesting thought, speaking to Mr Hatzinikolaou, to the 'GEN'. It had been done, it had become a law. It was about to come out of a decree, but they didn't go ahead because it was negative. Phil came and saw it positively. Now we read that he refused to license in this postgraduate department in English with tuition fees. Why? It's all crazy! Here, as it seemed today with the alternates, there is a field of understanding. Why should the idea of depriving us of resources and full education procedures? Ladies and gentlemen, in the three minutes that I have and in the exercise of my general duties as Parliamentary Representative, I would like to raise two further issues: I was in the morning zone of 'ANDENNA'. When I was invited yesterday, I thought I'd be asked about Mr. Papantoniou. Last night, I left here with colleagues from the Democratic Alliance, who we are thriving. I welcome Mr Barriotta who has come to the Democratic Alliance today. I would remind you, Mr Amyras, that when the river was founded, I welcomed it. Every new party founded for me is a hope. In my way all these years I have never been a colleague who left PASOK. I never told a colleague: "Did you resign? He handed over the seat to our party." Because the House is composed of parties and people who have the right to vote, who have come out with the approval of the people. He's not an emperor, the party red tape. Institutions, structures and people are the political mix that brings us here. We play a part too, faces play a role, perhaps the gentleman, between us and not to be fooled. So because I have a history, I am entitled to welcome a colleague's choice months after he left his party. Let me remind you that the Democratic Alliance now has nineteen Members. In June 2015, when we had the inner-party presidential elections, we were considered finished. Mr. Mada, are you interested?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u217	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u218	You look at me carefully. Do you care about the matter? That's for the best. Our nineteen MPs are the answer to those Cassandras who considered us finished. We are moving forward, and we will further increase our powers, and we will match them to the will of the electorate when it comes to popular sovereignty. So, as a Democratic Compact, olive oil, PASOK, we had at the Government of Samara - Venizelou make a arrangement for PPC. So I was at Andenna this morning and I thought we would talk about yesterday and that's why I was invited. Since the first time the debate began, it has been about employment, negotiation, the alalum in the insurance funds. I don't have time for this, I'll see you at another chance, maybe this afternoon if I get a second. In any case, we were discussing other issues. What the Chamber said yesterday did not concern anyone. It's a surprise to me! Suddenly, during the debate, the news comes that "SKAI" - on another channel - the Minister of Government Skourletis was placed on the subject of PPC, saying more or less that on the part of the troika, and within its committees, they are "bugs" of interests which - he did not say, but which arises - "negotiate" with Mr Skourletis and Mr Pitsirla - who "negotiate" with the "bugs" - and that the final product goes to be catastrophic. He objected to the fact that the PPC of many billions of euros today invoiced 600 million euros and said that this whole thing is wicked, it leads to - it was too negative - but it will vote if the collective bodies - because it is left - are voting for it. What's that? What kind of a bunch is that? If something's bad, I don't vote for it. What does it mean "I'm left and I have collective procedures"? If anything harms my country, I don't vote for it. Are the ministers of Skourletis, Pitsorlas and others negotiating with "barkers" of interest? The Prime Minister is as left as anyone else, as he said yesterday - and yesterday Mr. Skourletis spoke - because he sees it, understands it and does it right? Ladies and gentlemen, you won't drive us crazy. We've said that a thousand times. We have thought, we have experience, we see the good, we see the negative, we keep a line balanced, hard, but fair opposition. But you no longer know what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u219	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u220	There is no government whose Minister, who has been a member of the Ministry in which Mr Stathakis is sitting today, who says what he says about PPC, who is destroying it - and Mr Skourletis and Mr Stathakis - for two years and something - you have abolished the 'little PPC', which you complained about, you asked for a referendum on PPC - and from where 30% cost EUR 1.5 billion plus 1.5 billion the investment in Meliti, you are now giving it free. Aren't you going to give a reason for this? It's time. In any case, however, this is not the time for confrontations of this kind. It's time to tell us what you're gonna do.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u221	Please hang up, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u222	Let your Minister and Prime Minister tell us about everything else, but not the essentials - where you're going with PPC. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not think - and I conclude with that - that after the banks there is more serious, more important and more economic institution in the country than PPC. If PPC breaks into your hands, the country is in your hands. Remember what President Holland said to your Prime Minister a few days before the referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, too. We move on to Mr Vassiliou Kegeroglu from the PASOK - DIMAR. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause]] Members of the government majority and ministers who have spoken of amendments that address issues and address issues, say that there are of course such ones. The question is: must there be a large number of others who are not urgent in order to be tabled as late or to be discussed in a bill, which has five articles, 20 amendments? That's what this is about. We therefore have two amendments that double the wages of two directors from EUR 4,600 to EUR 9,200. Is this an emergency and it's come as a delay? Is that government that was talking about good management? At the same time, however, none of the Ministers for Economic Staff who have produced their own amendment for the purposes of the long-term amendment have said anything about the problem with thousands of families and the loans received with the guarantee or the exchange rate of the Swiss franc. We didn't hear a word. We have tabled a comprehensive proposal on the issue of red loans, including a specific proposal on loans with a Swiss franc. What does this regulation actually mean? That at the time the loan was received there was a certain rate and we must go to it, of course, with the interest rates of the other loans and, of course, the amount that has been paid up until the time the borrower has set up. The amendment by Mr Giorgos Karras on this issue solves the problem. It must be accepted by the government. It is in line with the judgments given not in one and two cases, but in many cases, and the Government must be placed even if it has a negative position. He can't avoid placing on such a serious subject. So, by stating our support for this amendment, at the same time we ask the Minister for his opinion, to come here and talk to us. For the amendment that has been tabled for the alternates, I must tell you that it has indeed reminded us of Mr Lovers' great statements about twenty-thousand recruitments, where we would not need the alternates and all the relevant - Mr Lovers mentioned in detail. Where's Mr. Friend to tell us a word about this particular matter? If he doesn't come to talk about this, who's coming to talk about? About "Save a gate", which doesn't really know and said by mistake last night that it's happening in another phase? That's why he's coming to talk. It was then placed in a body that was chosen by the government, and the first job it did was to ask for the property of people in Laureate - because that is what this is about. There's a lady in there with doubled wages - and if she's not, don't forget her, put her in the doubles - and asked for people's property. The amendment tabled by the government majority concerns only the suspension of payment, not even the removal of fines. It's a suspension of collection. He doesn't solve the problem, but he wants to keep the people of Laurent hostage. That is the purpose. No, gentlemen! You will give a definitive solution in accordance with the amendment tabled by the other Members, the amendment tabled by Mrs Christophilopoulou, which gives a definitive solution to the matter, and there should be a clear government position on what is proposed. The municipality and other bodies agree on a definitive solution rather than a hostage to the owners, and the government should, I repeat, be clearly placed. We are in progress with the deposit of a draft law on the extrajudicial compromise, a public debate which only refers to it. Nothing other than that in the negotiations is mentioned by the government MPs or ministers. They're talking about an out-of-court settlement that - what a nice one! - will regulate all issues over 20,000 euros and everything else. We'll see about it in the conversation. First of all, our view is that it is not an out-of-court compromise, it is out-of-court extortion. Why? The debtor comes in a blackmailer. The Government refused to institutionalise the special irresponsible account, which would ensure a minimal operation in the company. At the same time, he breached not only this commitment given by the Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras, in Thessaloniki in September for the irreversible account, but also the other commitment to freeze the debts to the insurance funds, which continue their treasury and continues to increase. Iron bucket will take him to a table for free negotiations in relation to the extrajudicial compromise. A prerequisite for us is the establishment of the irresponsible account and the freezing of dues. It is only in this way that there will be an equal discussion and regulation of matters. Finally, I close with this. You really are mad when the SYRIZA and ANEL forget all that they have said so long, as if they were now born as a party, as if they hadn't said anything before 2015, as if they had not created the squares of the indignant in 2012, as if they had not stoned, muddled and trained all those who were struggling to keep the country upright and don't look at the mirror. They're ashamed to look into the mirror. This front page of the SYRIZA relates to the Members of SYRIZA. They're ashamed to look into the mirror! The government, to be the hundred and fifty - three conscientious ones, is to say to them, "Don't listen to the others. The other parties operate individually, they have individual responsibility. You say what you want, and we will cover you and close it with a decision of the central committee of the party. That's SYRIZA's logic. That's how it comes with the Revision of the Constitution. I'm ending up with this. With one hand they sign the sale of PPC. They give 40% of the clientele free and 1 euro in exchange for privatization, those who reacted to the small PPC, those who reacted to the 3 billion, those who from 2.6 billion stock exchanges, have reached 600 million and at the same time make, says, a proposal in the Constitution for state energy. Who are you kidding? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u225	Thank you very much. Independent MEP George - Dimitrios Karras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u226	Thank you, Mr President. The draft law that is being introduced today for discussion relates essentially to regulation of the banking system. It also has one provision, Article 43, which was incorporated into the Commission on the well-known issue of deferred tax, in particular the deferred tax requirement. What does that mean? That at the time when application of the deletion provisions, debt compromises, either households or businesses, will in this case be able to offset, not more than five years, as before, but for twenty years, any amount which they delete in order to cover their supervisory capital, as formulated by the ‘Basil II clauses’. But I've had a problem. What's the range of this device? So I saw that a large group of borrowers, who can tell you that they are also the most unfair, since they are the ones who have concluded contracts in a foreign currency and have taken over the burden of changing the exchange rate, are outside. Who are they? I am referring to the well-known issue of housing, consumer and business loans in a Swiss franc. Mr. Dimitras said so, and they are well known. I will not say about the exchange rate changes from 1.6% to 1%. I will not say about the burdens incurred, I will only say this: EUR 100,000 loan, has today been set at EUR 160,000. They have been paying for at least ten years in a very short time, with sacrifice and sweat, the instalments, but the outstanding capital has not fallen below EUR 100,000. I have therefore tabled an amendment to which I call for the least, the administration of justice to these people. For what? Because this time point is timely. He can't wait any longer. And that's why? The banks are already announcing their commitments to reduce the amount of ‘red’ loans. Already, the National Bank has announced that it will reduce to the next two years by 33% the volume, which means write-offs and Piraeus Bank by 41%. Not to repeat the numbers for systemic banks now. That's what he's looking at. Of the total amount of loans in delay, 94.8 billion is households. It's a big deal. It is the state now, the continuation of the state's hypothesis. Let me not recall the 'brain drain', which has left over four hundred thousand, according to the Bank of Greece's figures, young scientists. It's a disinvestment. I'll be realistic. It's not just a delinquency of these people. It is a disinvestment, which means that those who have the problem of loans and this category, some of their children will leave, some time they will lose ownership. I have therefore tabled an amendment and have asked for the minimum, to be included in the regulation of deferred tax, deferred tax requirement, and the category of loans in a Swiss franc. It's simple. We are therefore going to fix the rate. I propose the date of disbursement, because there are also judicial decisions that recognise the lack of information. There are many issues of responsibility. Of course, I won't talk to you right now. It is not enough time to talk about it. I therefore propose that the date of disbursement should be equal to the amount of the loan due, so that they too can be included in a arrangement, and that, on the one hand, no more than tens of families or tens of thousands, if you like. The loans, according to the banks, are sixty-two thousand. It's not just those sixty-two thousand. It is sixty-two thousand co-guarantees, because when banks borrowed a foreign currency, they demanded additional guarantees, not only worthy of the loan, but many times multiple, I fear. Mr. Mardas, I think, knows that. And we have sixty - 100 thousand guarantors at risk of this overthrowing of the franc's exchange rate towards the euro. I have therefore asked for this regulation. I was pleased, if you like, to see the majority of the Members of the House mentioned in my amendment, which means that it should be accepted. It must be accepted today. Because if the deferral tax is voted on by the government, they will have to be included there. There's no more room. I'm going to say two counter-problems that put me through conversations, see if I'm right or wrong. We don't place yet. The two counter-problems that have been put to me were the following. Firstly, is the banks' supervisory capital shaken by further write-offs? Answer one: No. If the government - and all of the House - goes back to the July 2015 financial facility contract - the known Memorandum 3 - will see what the supervisory funds the institutions have recognised should be settled, and settled, even through the settlement of red loans. First of all, then, an argument is being dismantled. Within these supervisory funds, which the institutions recognise should be cleared up of'red' loans, it is also foreign currency loans. Second counter-protect. It is no longer up to criticism and logic. That the European directive passed in November 2016 on foreign currency credits does not have retroactive effect and does not allow the European Union to have retroactive effect. But, for God's sake! This directive applies to the future. The directive does not have constitutional effect. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall finish, Mr President. It is a directive which we made, and the internal legislator, the Greek Parliament, has the right to regulate matters that are different from the directive on the past, because we are talking about loans of which the main volume was given in 2007-2009, and there is, therefore, neither European law, Union nor domestic law, nor any emblem. Therefore, this argument is also rejected. I want to say something else, and I'll finish. The Greek society is upset for this reason. Why is he upset? Because the share of foreign currency loans is high. I would like to ask the government to put it today and accept the amendment, because otherwise we will never resolve it. Otherwise, the government should commit itself to bringing the amendment in good time and taking the legislative initiative to take care of it. Why am I saying that? Ladies and gentlemen, I shall put forward a dossier which has decisions by all the regions of the country - calling for the regulation, that is 100% of the Greek population, to be dealt with - and a vast majority of the largest municipalities in Greece, expressing the agony that the issue needs to be resolved and, in particular, there is no time left. I will say this archaeologically: 'Not the times' now if this matter is left. There is still leftoverism, disinvestment, misery. I will also submit for the identification of my so-called official information from the Bank of Greece the amount of delayed loans, the amount of the percentage on which must be reduced, adjusted, deleted. I will say something else about the Minister, and I shall conclude with that. The government has not explained why the regulation of the deferred tax applies from 1-1-2016. Is it just to cover the sworn auditors who do not want to sign the banks' balance sheets and anything else and we do not want to solve the problems of the Greek people immediately? I am presenting for the Minutes as I have already said. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Georgios-Dimitrios Karras, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u227	Thank Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras, Independent MEP. Mr Panagiotis Skourikos, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to support the amendment with a general number of 991 and a number of 149 concerning the suspension of the issue of a certificate, the collection and execution of administrative abortion protocols, arbitrary-use compensation protocols and special compensation protocols for the municipalities of Laureate and Saronic. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue of the number of amendments is an important issue that everyone would agree to discuss. However, it is wise to examine who are alleviating and who are defending these amendments, such as the specific one I wish to support, because here I have heard koruna on all matter in legislation that really relieves a lot of our fellow citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem with the ownership status of the current Municipalities of Laureate and Saronic, has been perpetuated since 1863! Do you hear me? Since 1863! After the dispute between the Greek state and the French company Serpieri, the Greek State challenged the company's right to take advantage of the evacuations in the area of Lavrio, which were the current municipalities of Laureate and Saronic, as we said, by even voting for the relevant law. By this law, the real estate of the Franco-Italian company, by a large part, was owned by the State. This area was given to the inhabitants of the region, but the state was not then able to settle the local property regime. From then until 1977 many judiciary fights of the local population followed. Then came Law No 719/1977, which cleared the property issues, but only for the Keratea Community. By mistake of the then legislator, it did not apply the administrative limits, i.e. the current municipalities of Laureate and Saronic, as foreseen by the judicial rulings and topographic charts of 1972. With this mistake, the inhabitants of the region have remained in hostage until now, because it has been heard before that we are keeping the residents in hostage. Recently, the Real Estate Company of the Public Protocols for the Collection, Enforcement and Elimination of the establishment of arbitrary-use compensation and the imposition of special compensation for the residents of the Municipalities of Lavarian and Saronic, following a last name complaint made by one citizen. Since the property regime has not yet been settled yet, but it is planned to clarify in full the application of the register, this legislation comes to suspend the issue, attestation and execution of the administrative elimination protocols, arbitrary and special compensation protocols for the areas described in the Decision No 1151/72 of the Court of Appeal of Athens, No 116 of 1968 and of 698 of the Nafplio Court of Appeal and No 110 of 1978 of the Ice Town Council and are owned by the Municipality of Laureate and Saronic, without prejudice to the rights of the Greek State on forest land until the ratification of the final records of the national register of the above Municipalities. In other words, this is a longer period than that of the ratification of forest maps. The extension of the law will be arranged in a second year following the necessary consultation of the local community, in which we have been consulted with great importance. We don't want to legislate ourselves. We want to talk. We want to have time to listen to all the views. That is what the Members of all the parties have already done at the Mayor's office with citizens, with institutions. So the Opposition comes and accuses us of holding a hostage. Really? Opposition is indignant. Really, are you angry? Why didn't you get irritated in 2014 and solve the problem? Why didn't you get indignant in 2010, in 2000, in 1990, in 1980, in 1970? Where have you been? So this government is coming, SYRIZA - ANEL, to settle a 50 - four - year - old stand. Because the people know - the people of Laurent are listening to us and seeing us now -, to say that this government is going to resolve the issue definitively and as it should be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, Mr. Pano rusty. The State Secretary has the floor. Will you need more than ten minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u230	It is very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u231	Okay. In any case, you have more time available. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u232	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, the dissemination of the new payment service systems is now so great that we must ensure that all citizens have access to them, inclusive and transparent terms and charges. For this reason, Directive 2014/92 of the European Union, which we incorporate into Greek law with the draft legislation under discussion, lays down uniform rules at European level, as regards transparency and comparability of charges charged to consumers. It ensures that citizens can easily change their services in order to enhance competition in the retail banking sector. In short, I will mention that, with the directive that we incorporate, the best practices that can be achieved at both national and European level are chosen. Moreover, payment service providers and credit institutions should provide consumers with specific documents using standardised terminology. As a result, the consumer will be able to compare the costs imposed in both his and his country and in general in the European Union, so that he does not become more confusing and better value commercial offers, but also to select the most suitable service for his or her needs. All consumers resident in Member States of the European Union, regardless of whether they are resident in the Member State where a credit institution is located and regardless of their financial situation, will have the right to open a payment account to enable them to carry out the necessary operations, such as a payroll, a pension, a payment of a CEC. I will not go any further, as this has been adequately covered in the debate in committees, but also by the previous speakers. In the second part of the bill, and with a number of amendments that have been added, a number of issues of responsibility of the Ministry of Finance are dealt with. It is facilitated to transfer credits between central government bodies, for which a timely procedure for the adoption of a Joint Ministerial Decision is required. It harmonizes the treatment of permanent civil servants, legal persons governed by public law and OTAs serving in technical sectors. To some extent, the remuneration of the Director-General of the Public Debt Management Agency is restored to maintain or attract competent executives to a highly qualified organisation. Arrangements shall be drawn up concerning, inter alia, the internal control of the CECs. The issue of taxation on capital gains of assets is regulated by resolving an ambiguity of the legislation. Legislative improvements are being made to avoid the simultaneous existence of two fines for the submission of incorrect data. Furthermore, the power to impose fines on the people's markets is removed. It harmonises the tax regime of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development with that of the respective international organisations that are also active in Greece. Finally, extension is given for the creation of the late Leases registry. Issues of deferred tax on debt write-offs or debt transfers to banks shall be settled in order to protect the banks' capital adequacy. However, all the necessary margins have been foreseen so that there is no cost to the budget. Finally, the framework for imposing measures and administrative sanctions to suspend the operation of professional establishments for businesses which commit tax infringements, Article 13 of Law 2523/1997, while protecting employees during the suspension of the business. I would also like to refer to the amendments tabled by my fellow Members. Mrs Theopevtou's amendment on building cooperatives has already been accepted by the committees which have been discussed and incorporated into the body. With regard to Mr Karras' amendment, the settlement of foreign-currency loans - and here we are talking about the Swiss franc - is indeed a worthwhile amendment. I do not think, however, that we can have a parliamentary amendment on such a big and so serious issue of moving forward and accepting it, in order to incorporate it in the draft law that we have today. It is an issue that, once the SYRIZA - ANEL government has been concerned about. We're trying to find a solution. We will take it into account and very seriously, sometime later, we will see how we can settle the matter. As regards the amendment, with a general number of 990 and a special number of 148, by Mr Katsiki, it is exactly the same as the amendment, developed by Mr Skourikos, who has to do with the suspension or issue of a certificate of recovery and enforcement of administrative protocols, the determination of compensation protocols, the withdrawal of use and a special compensation protocol to the municipalities of Laureate and Saronic. Amendment No 991, and Amendment No 149, will be accepted. We really think that we should suspend the extradition of the fine. With regard to the amendments on the same subject, which Mr Vorides, Mr Martinou, Mr Vlachos, Mr Bourras, I think we can see them along the way. We normally have to solve the problem of Laureate. He said Mr. Darkness was a time-consuming thing. We're not the ones holding the civilians hostage. Hosts of their citizens held all governments. Since the creation of the problem there could have been too many amendments, they could have come to some laws too. We really want to solve the problem. We're committed to solving the problem. For the time being, we want to lighten people, and that is why we are giving the parole. From there on, with the completion of both the Land register and some of the laws that we will have and similar issues, we will see more practically the problem of Laureate and Saronic. As far as the other amendments, the MEPs are concerned, I expect to hear Mrs Skoufa's amendment. I think, however, that on the basis of the data I have seen at least, we are also going to make it acceptable, because it concerns an issue that has to do with the school committees and with the rental of the canteens, which I think is about all the municipalities. They can't be professionals. Mrs. Scouffa will analyse her, and if I have to say something more, then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u233	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, eight students and students and four teachers from the Special Professional High School of Orestiad. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Let me tell you that you are following legislative work. There's a bill from the Ministry of Finance. It is the position of the Members, the Ministers and then the vote is to be taken in order to make the law. We thank you, however, for your presence here. We must continue with the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Nikolaos Teddys, who will speak for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u234	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I will make a comment on the amendment tabled to regulate loans in a Swiss franc. This is, indeed, a very serious issue that the National Representation must discuss and regulate. But we too, although we agree on the need for regulation, cannot be placed on an amendment that was not even consulted in advance, has not been considered, we have not investigated it, and we therefore believe that this way of introducing a major problem is a way that, at least as far as Property Opposition is concerned, does not help to resolve it. I now come to the directive itself on the comparability of fees linked to payment accounts. First of all, no one could be negative, but I think that the problem that concerns the Greek society and the Greek economy is not that. The country's banking system is in crisis. We all see it. We have no information, by the way, what about capital controls, when will they finally be lifted? On the contrary, you see rumours about the deterioration of the situation are circulating, even combined with the outflow of deposits. And since we are talking about outflows, it would be useful to have an update on what is going on at the negotiating level. Because it is obvious - you all know - that rumours are circulated, which are surely expelled by the government, for the conclusion of this negotiation, without being called, Minister, how, what, when, are we? We did have the 'thankful' note this morning, Minister of Government, to say that there are private interests involved in the negotiation. In fact, I have not understood whether this concerns only the other side, or whether it concerns our side, namely the ministers of government who are negotiating. However, anyone who makes allegations of 'bugs', the least he has to do, is to explain in detail to the National Representation - because this is a very serious complaint - what he is talking about. And if possible - and it must be possible - to identify what the 'danger' is. Because saying things in the channels without appropriate is the easy one. Here. 'Borders'. Who are the 'damage dealers'? I now come to the largest part of the legislative and legislative work. That is how the Minister appreciated it, because the directive itself spoke for two minutes and seven seconds and for the rest of the tenth year it made it available to him for the amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, what is happening is scary. It is terrifying and universally unacceptable. We have a legitimisation procedure, which consists, by a majority of the regulations, of inappropriate and succinct regulations. In fact, very badly written, Minister. It is obviously the originality of a late amendment, of coming to a series of legal regulations and of being tabled to us an hour or two or three after the late amendment has been tabled. This is a complete ridicule of the legislative work. I do not put it in the Minutes because, of course, they have just been divided and are contained in the Minutes. But that is full ridicule. And I was very surprised - I have to say that you defended the procedure for making timely amendments, telling us that it is something less than four hundred. It is wrong to measure it, it does not include the Members that you have accepted. But to accept yours, I don't mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u235	It includes them. It's official evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u236	To accept yours, I have no objection. If you find that four hundred or something less time-consuming amendments are serious in legislative work, well done. Well done. I have no objections. And even I was amazed at the extra placement of a positive sign. We have been told by the Minister that the amendments have a positive sign. We therefore have delayed amendments with positive and delayed amendments with a negative figure. And we also have a mechanism here, obviously ready, which also makes the amendments subject to delays, which the government itself introduces. Because when the government says that most of them have a positive sign, it obviously also has some, which it itself also votes for, which have a negative sign. Is the seriousness still here somewhere? In fact, I have already heard another distinction, which has been said: they are of course serving, but the question is who are they serving? If they serve someone we like, then the amendment is good. If it serves someone we don't like, then it's bad. Let us see, then, today's amendment tabled by the Ministry of Economy and Development concerning the possibility of covering from the national side of the insignificant - but this is where money was found - a public investment programme, a cost for the concessionaire of public projects, that, Minister, is it with a positive or negative social sign? Or commonly, to tell you, the ruffles you do to contractors have a positive or negative sign? And don't tell me that you're not the government of ruffles to contractors, why would you say, "Would you like to look at article 106 of Law4389/2016, with which you forgived the contractors' cartel from all criminal persecutions?" You are a government that always serves interests. It's amazing what you're doing. And yesterday, before the Prime Minister, I mentioned twenty-five regulations, and he did not answer me for one. These positive and negative social ties to leave them in the band. You know, ladies and gentlemen, what are these amendments here? Recommendation of positions of scientific staff other than the close public sector. Let's make it easy for a few of us. I imagine which ones, and we can all imagine. Enforcement of airport development charges - to whom do you imagine? - three-year-olds and four-year-olds. When a child has three or four years of age spends an airport on socialist rule, the first time left pays 12 euros. So far he was five years old and over. Is that, Minister, a positive social sign or a negative social sign? Because you suggest it to us here. So, tell me, what kind of a corporation tax relief is it? Which rushphetti is hiding here? Who are you serving behind this? Because, if you want to amend tax collection codes, you can do so with pleasure. In any case, tax rates must be reduced and we tell you. But you don't reform, you make ruffles. So tell us who this amendment is helping. Who brought in what company and you want to reduce the cost that he paid? Aren't you telling me: The memorials for the Fathers' Vegetable Market are you telling us this too? What has happened to the Patras vegetables market, which is about the conclusion of the negotiations? If, as the government says, the negotiations have come to an end, what is it doing here? Could you tell us something? In any case, what memorial arrangements do you say to us, when the Minister of Finance, your head of government, claimed in second year - had he, in the first year, claimed that we had only done 30% - that we have no Memorandum of Understanding? So the Patras vegetable market in what negotiation with the troika is involved? Can you tell us something? Overtime pay. And this is a positive sign? Payroll costs, positive sign. Customize executives, positive forensics, too? Do you know what you've done with this arrangement? You change the Director-General's qualifications, but you forget to change the managers' qualifications, so the Director-General needs to have less qualified qualifications than the managers. I say this in order to understand the quality of the legislature, beyond the feasibility and beyond the seriousness. Inhibitors of demolition protocols, bank benefits with deferred tax. Tell me here, Minister: What's the sign, so we know? Do you want me to tell you what Mr. Lafazanis, who belonged to your party, when he had first passed such a provision? Can I remind you? "I am very sorry", said Mr Lafazanis, "with the amendments you bring by planes, in violation of the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, with late amendments" - does that remind you of anything? - "promote one of the biggest scandals that have occurred in Greek history". Lafazanis. Now all this has become a positive social sign, ladies and gentlemen. The deferred tax, the provision of the banking system, could not be made by way of normal procedure. We had to shove them with an amendment at night. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear what is happening. This government has both measured living and seriousness and usefulness. Because it really does not dare to bring provisions in the normal procedure, and it dares neither the publicity of committees, nor the criticism of colleagues, nor any of them has now defined it as a general way of legislating on any point of view and on any other matter, because in reality 90% of the parliamentary work is rhetorical, it is nothing else. They're ruffles and settings. Legislation is only two things, Memorandum obligations and rumours. You don't do anything else. You have therefore chosen the way in which the amendments and indeed the late ones should be taken, so that no one can have time to look at them. One is nineteen to twenty pages and no one can know what this is all about and what it is all about. This process must be stopped. The opposition parties should at least come together to the Conference of Presidents and propose a solution whereby this unacceptable parliamentary procedure, equal and equal parliamentary coup, the mocking of legislative power, on the backs of majority Members, will be stopped. The majority Members, who are appalled in the face of the end of their term of office - because we know very well that we will not meet with many of them in the next House - are voting to abundantly against all these unacceptable things that you have brought here, selfish and legal misery, by the way, for those who are involved in the legal science that you have broken up. Ladies and gentlemen, I will say this again. I have said this many times, but I do not think it is any good anymore, because we are talking to those who are not listening: this government is coming, but it has lost the last chance at least seriously.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u237	Thank you to the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy Mr Nikolao Teddy. We shall now proceed to the list of speakers. The speaker of the New Democracy Mr George Stylos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u238	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be brief. I shall not refer to the bill, but only to the amendment of the Ministry of Education. Once again we have an amendment which has come as a surprise, without being discussed in the Committee on Culture. We have an amendment concerning the teachers of special education. We have an intervention from the Ministry of Education which overturns what has existed so far in relation to the tables and the way in which special education is recruited. It is a process which has been accepted by the whole educational community, all of the parties in this House, when the status quo has been passed to date, and a procedure, which is not based on any scientific presumption. He has no scientific acceptance, but he comes very simply and says "I do not count the graduates' degrees, the basic degree in study of the departments of Magnesia and the departments of the University of Volos and Macedonia". It gives all the authorizations and possibilities to the Minister of Education to decide as he thinks and to make two separate tables for special education, one for the graduates of these departments and another for the other graduates, who have a criterion. Within a criterion, we reach the seminars. I urge you all to see this amendment and, above all, the majority Members, because you are giving a white check to the detriment of objectivity, to the detriment of transparency. Already at the moment we are talking about are students outside the House from these sections, over five hundred, and protest both surprise and opacity. We have said that this amendment will be voted against. So we urge you to rethink it, withdraw it, come here and bring us specific criteria. Because an entire industry with postgraduate courses has been set up, which you are now encouraging with what is being done. You turn the graduates of the pedagogical divisions, the kindergartens to go to Cyprus, to go to Bulgaria, to give money to families, to get postgraduate, to have a hope to join the second table that you recommend. So, because it's at the expense of the new generation of our country and it's at the expense of graduates, who so much are struggling to find a way out of their lives, I urge you to revise it and see it again from the beginning. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u239	Thank you, Mr. Style. We move on to Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos, Member of the Democratic Partnership. You have the floor, Mr Constantopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u240	Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the transposition into national legislation of a European directive with three essential objectives: Firstly, information for consumers about fees charged to bank accounts, secondly, the possibility for consumers to compare fees and, thirdly, to facilitate cross-border opening of payment accounts, of course within the European Union. Madam Minister, the directive could only be an important legislative development because, on the one hand, it facilitates consumer participation in the single market. And here of course a question arises: How can we talk about a single market, when in two months' time the government will celebrate the two-year anniversary of the Capital Controls? Ladies and gentlemen, the economy is heading towards the generalization of accounting payments without, of course, the use of cash. And here we are still discussing when the capital controls will be lifted! We are also talking about the huge bank charges in POS, which are the hard ones for the operation of businesses, and the corresponding charges in interbank money transfers. The conclusion is that the directive on substance in our country will remain inapplicable. And I come to the amendments. I shall begin by referring to Mr Karras' amendment, number 982 and number 144, on the settlement of foreign loans involving too many of our fellow citizens and too many borrowers, debtors who have received loans in a foreign currency and even seventy thousand borrowers in a Swiss franc. Today, all of these are in despair. All these, Minister, are at a dead end, and at a time when there is a rapid appreciation of the Swiss franc. They have been found to owe exorbitant sums, multiple loans received. They must therefore be allowed to write off debts and of course with a new bank agreement at the rate in force at the time the loan was disbursed. That is why, Minister, we urge you to accept the amendment you have previously said that you are not accepting it. So give way to the deadlock of the borrowers. I take this opportunity to take the opportunity to refer to red loans, since we already have the first two foreignfunds in red loans. And here our proposal, Minister, is to allow the borrowers of foreign funds to take the lead, to give them the opportunity for for forty-five or sixty days to go and buy their loans. Don't let them actually be merciful. Don't give the opportunity to lose the households and precede the crows. So give the loans to the borrowers. Let us example, if anything, from our Cypriot brothers. And I come to the amendment on special treatment. The Ministry of Education continues its policy of surprise and deterioration of dialogue. What did we ask Mr. Gavroglou for? Stop bringing amendments from the window, stop bringing an amendment industry and issues related to the dialogue and, indeed, to all the issues relating to all three levels of education, whether with closed schools, as happened in August 2016 or with an amendment to an unrelated bill that took place in March 2017. Minister, the arrangements for kindergartens have broken down the kindergarten sector. The announcements about the assignments proved to be fruitfruits. They even beat the successors of the ADP and the substitutes. The intervention for special treatment has divided the educational sector because the announcements of the establishment of new special treatment structures are now empty. You are, gentlemen, treating special treatment with carelessness. And I'm really sorry that there's no one from the Ministry of Education to hear what I'm saying. It is, however, mentioned in your explanatory statement that appointments to education are forbidden. Therefore, Minister, the government's commitments so far prove to be flawed. Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment completely depreciates the professional rights deriving from the basic degree. He's revealing something else. What? The government's smuggling and analgesia towards teachers from the IP61 and IP71 sectors. I'm talking about the graduates of the University Departments of Volos. It declassifies posts in the IP71 and in the IP61, abolishing paragraph 1 of Article 56 and tracing the minimum hopes for appointment. Madam Minister, we have all known to date that it was the basic degree. Postgraduate and doctoral studies are not the title of appointment, but an additional, additional one - I would say - of wage and graduation developments. The special treatment cannot be a field of experimentation. This year has the most gaps in the parallel support, as well as in the staffing of special schools with special assistants. That is why any changes need substantial dialogue - which is not done - with the educational community and, of course, with the other stakeholders. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the needs of disabled pupils and special educational skills are not suitable for experimentation. Let me remind you here that in 2014, at PASOK and with Andreas Loverdos, we settled the issue of classification in the tables in a fair and commonly accepted way, without any reaction. Yesterday and today, the educational federations are on their way. Where? In protest marches. This is the result of the inconvenience caused by your amendment. That is why we and we are voting against it, and of course we ask the Minister to withdraw it. Ladies and gentlemen, the government, of course, has lost the magic wand of redemption and today leads us to unconditionally conspiracy. We have a deal. We don't see a deal. It reveals the cruel reality. The fourth memorandum is before the gates. You are afraid, however, to admit it, but you are prepared to vote. The hope you promised was a horror. And that hope you promised young people. The Prime Minister's assertion of "the end of the crisis", no longer convinces anyone, not only society, but also your party members. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Please, Mr President. Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that on the road of a national strategy drawn up by the PASOK Government 2009-2011, both the Papademos government and the government of Mr Samaras to the three Zapeias and the 18 billion equivalents, but also the government 'first time left' of Alexis Tsipras. We insist on a proposal to get the country out of the crisis: To get out of the crisis, there is a need first of all for compassion and national unity, but also for national consensus and a large majority government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u241	Thank you Mr Constantopoulos, Member of the Democratic Alliance. Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn Mr Ioannis Sahinides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u242	Thank you, Mr President. Before I go to comment on the amendments, I think it is advisable to inform the House of an event that took place about one and a half hours ago, if I am not mistaken, in Chamber 223, where the Committee on Social Affairs was meeting. It gave me a terrible impression that, at the time I entered, there was a dispute between the Member of the New Democracy, Mr. Economou and Minister Xanthi, Mr. Polakis and the Members of the SYRIZA in general. What am I surprised? The ministers, who do not answer our questions, answered Mr Economou. If you were to see Mr. Economous's attitude toward both the ministers and the others, it would really surprise you. But there is a real issue here. We are not asked as Golden Dawn to answer our questions on the grounds that we are indicted. You should not use two standards, gentlemen, and two standards. So here you have two options: Treat New Democracy as a judiciary, since for the last two days the former Chief of New Democracy has been indicted on the basis of a case-file which had confiscated the Chief of Golden Dawn and MPs, the executives. So you can't use two standards. Since we considered ourselves accused and did not reply to us, we ask for and demand or do exactly the same in the New Democracy or the Ministers of SYRIZA to review their views, throw water into their wine and answer questions beautifully and democratically anymore. Let me turn to the comments on the amendments. We have the amendment with a general number of 959 and a special 136, which is incorporated as Article 38, in which, in addition to appointing and permanentising your party army, you are doing something even more dangerous: the responsibilities of the National Committee on Human Rights add to the maintenance of a reliable and effective system for recording incidents of racism and intolerance. Who guarantees the credibility and truth of the facts recorded, especially when a special exemption is introduced for participation in the committee of persons in a parliamentary capacity? It is precisely the opposite that you had to do to ensure that this transparency is both pragmatic and transparent. In fact, you are making the members of the criminal law irresponsible for expressing their opinion, including the recording of incidents of racism. Two questions arise: on the one hand, the committee can receive false complaints, on the other hand it is put to the unavoidable in order to make politics and to voice any opposite voice from the one it already expresses. I would like to say that it can express an opinion and characterise the speech as racist, whoever ideologically and politically differs from what members of the committee express. We move to Amendment No 968 and number 138. This extends the application of the decision to demolition of the focus centres in Microlimanos. At this time of economic pressure, the implementation of such a decision would lead to dozens of families in unemployment. A solution must be found, which will also satisfy the implementation of the law, but also the owners and workers to whom it will also protect. I come to the amendment with a general number of 970 and a special 139, which is incorporated as Article 40. With the last amendments to the Code of Civil Procedure, you have imposed an additional financial burden on the parties to the dispute and are obliged to pay them inappropriately in cases where they are applicants for postponement of their case. You have, however, ensured that the public, the legal persons of public law and the local authorities are free from the obligation to defer the infringement. Such discrimination of the public against citizens violates all concepts of equality and equal treatment of the parties. The payment of an unlawful deferral must be abolished for all parties. With regard to Amendment No 973 and Amendment No 140, Article 41. On the substance, in order not to lose sight of the interpretations of the articles, with this amendment you are increasing the taxation of foreign airlines, which is a blow to tourism. It makes Greece inappropriate and will be few the airlines that will choose "Eleftherios Venizelos" airport as a terminal or intermediate station. This means that we will gradually be excluded and marginalised by tourists. Also, it is a given that over time the economic consequences will certainly be negative for Greece. It is not only the revenue from the taxation of airlines, it is also the exchange of tourists. Think, and the difficulty of the Greeks, who will want to travel abroad. I now come to Amendment No 974 and Article 141, Article 42: The establishment of an Independent Public Revenue Authority is the implementation of Memorandum Revenue commitments and the selection of the Director's position will be made on the basis of the criteria of party. Any other condition you put with amendment to an unrelated bill at the last minute is for the sake of legality and not at all. The amendment with a general number of 980 and a special 142 is Article 43 - increase to twenty years - instead of ten years, which is currently in force - the period during which banks can depreciate their losses, which they have written in their balance sheet from the write-offs of loans, either because of the settlement of the loan in contractual, judicial or extrajudicial terms, or because of the transfer of the loan to acquisitions or securitisations or to credit institutions and financial institutions or to other companies or legal entities, if the management is carried out in such cases by the claim management company. This amendment comes on the day following the visit of the head of SSM to Athens, as indicated by his own. And this is another proof that you are fully legislating on foreign orders. I come to the amendment with a general number 983 and a specialist 145. We have received dozens of e-mails for this amendment. All the e-mails we have received, converging and agree to what they disagree. Their main disagreement is that general education teachers with a postgraduate degree in special treatment enter into the appointing table of special education teachers. However, postgraduate may also be purchased from well-known postgraduate markets such as Cyprus or other countries. There is also a major problem here, however, which has to do with special education schools. The Integration Departments have been entrusted with substitute special treatment teachers - and they have in fact found a lot of work - who have left with continuous unpaid leave, so that the integration departments do not always work at the expense of children and their parents. Also, special education teachers arrived and were being extended, Minister, to cover the special sections. And if we go to your logic, how can teachers teach in special classes, while teachers with special education knowledge can't teach in simple schools? I would also like to make a reference to the amendment which you are not accepting and which we propose to accept. It is Mr Karras' amendment, with a general number of 982 and a specialist 144, which concerns borrowers and the settlement of their loans in a Swiss franc. It is an amendment which, in essence, does not solve the problem, Minister. But it is a very good start. You should consider it because it concerns a large number of Greeks, who have received loans with a foreign currency guarantee and today, unfortunately, because of an exchange rate, they are invited to pay multiples. It is, indeed, a very good start. We're asking you, as Golden Dawn, to accept it. And as I said before, it does not really solve the problem, but it is a very good start. The amendment, with a general number of 988 and a special 146, refers to the suspension of operation exclusively of the professional establishment in which the inspection was carried out and the infringement was detected, instead of all the professional facilities of the trade mark, which is currently in force. Obviously, it is about specific training courses and you are trying to save certain entrepreneurs. The amendment, with a general number 989 and a special 147, concerns the regulation of issues relating to the possibility of establishing organised wholesale markets for fresh agricultural products. If you look at the document, it is an amendment that was already ready. I don't know, of course, who wrote it. Just, as far as we understand, you've been waiting and left the title of the bill to which you're going to incorporate it. One more thing. It was posted in public consultation on 24 March, i.e. only three days ago, a bill concerning the exclusive marketing and marketing of fresh products. However, you are not all right there, but you are reconstructing the amendment method again. Is this a matter that needs to be resolved today by an amendment and you do not incorporate it into a basic bill? Do not forget, Minister, that the basis for this amendment was precisely the proposals we have submitted on several occasions to the Committee on Production and Trade as Golden Dawn, that is to say, that there should be a central market for the disposal of all agricultural products in every county. If you want to testify a draft law that will be right, ask us to give you our advice. I continue with Amendment No 994 and special number 152. Here the Greek State grants its own rating on property located in the Municipality of Pavlos Mela to the National Defence Fund. Of course, the concession is not to meet the needs of the Greek Army or to make it available to Greek taxpayers on the street who are unable to meet basic needs, nor is it granted to become an area of education, sport, a general space where Greeks could develop their skills, be they artistic or sporting. You have proved yourself to be completely indifferent both to the issue of the country's Defence and to the financial support of the Greeks. And the question of the education, education and cultural training of the Greeks is probably not even touching you. This concession is made without consideration in order to meet supposed needs of people who are flooding our country, entering illegally and still receive full immunity and protection from the Greek state. It is supposed that all these refugees and immigrants - whose origins, any criminal involvements we ignore - did not want them to settle in Greece, but to leave Europe, as if Europe were waiting for them with open arms. So why does Greece continue to set up hospitality structures, as you call them? What purpose, really, are they serving? Our Member should be the creation of hospitality structures for the large proportion of the Greeks who live below the limits of poverty. The amendment with a general number 997 and a specialist of 155 is nothing more than a mere implementation of the obligations arising from the sale contract of regional airports. By imposing extra taxes on the already high, all that is to be achieved is to reduce the tourist wave. The flight tickets, which the passenger is required to pay, are increased by 100% from the initial amount only by taxes. You are now imposing new collective measures, i.e. the cost of airport renovation, on the basis of technical plans, you are moving it to the passenger. I shall now refer to the amendment, with general reference to the general, 156: this practice of direct awarding, by way of derogation, to most of the issues of the EOT, and particularly to the promotion of our country, is common. You permanently bring into irrelevant legislative amendments by regulating these issues. It is so unclear that it does not even mention the amount of the award. In other words, we are asking whether the assignments of more than 200 thousand euros are included, and whether so, what is the criterion of ensuring transparency and not to break down public money once again? And one last thing: What necessity and urgency have been covered here and this amendment must come at the last minute? With the amendment under number 999 and a special 157 you propose an extension for the application of the provision of Article 53 of Law 4456/2017 and a compensation payment to the President of the Prosecutor's Examination Authority. In fact, as a recital in this amendment you propose the need to carry out their duties uninterruptedly. However, since the creation of the principle by law, it enjoys functional independence, administrative and financial self-sufficiency and is not subject to supervision or supervision by governmental bodies or other administrative authorities. It is only under Parliament's control, in accordance with its Rules of Procedure. Why, then, did you not predict the need to pay compensation and diagnosed it today? It's probably a photographic device. It moves again with an amendment, as had happened two months ago, the beginning of operation of the authority without justifying what the delay is. And I shall close with the last amendment, Mr President. It is the amendment with a general number of 1000 and a special number of 158. This amendment is rather a mini-project. It has provisions of the Ministries of Tourism, Transport, Economy, Finance. Really, where's that going? We do not have time to compare the current provisions, but we do not even read the amendment itself. It concerns four different legal issues. Let me remind you that 350m euros were paid as compensation by the government to the "MOREA S.A." consortium in the interests of the Bobola Groups, which builds the main route of the Peloponnese. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The consortium had an account with losses of EUR 500 million due to reduced movement. In the case of Corinth - Tripoli - Kalamatas motorway the works had not been stopped in mid-2011, but were going slowly. Today the state budget is being burdened, because the traffic has decreased and the Greek State is helping the concessionaire.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u243	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u244	I'm done. It is the last sentence, Mr President. Here you need to check and change the contracts. It cannot be a private interest company - which takes the risk of investing in a public project - can and can be guaranteed and unilaterally secured once the risk has been taken and invested. And it is called on the Greek State, due to a loss of revenue from the tolls, to pay for the next thirty years - if I remember correctly - about 23 million a year. What for? The error and the costs should be borne exclusively by the private investor. On the one hand, you are bringing an amendment concerning advertising contracts in our country and another amendment with the provisions of the Ministry of Transport you raise the question of training workers in tourism. And the last paragraph speaks of compensation for overtime work for those working in hospitality structures. Really, don't you find volunteers of solidarity who will offer their love for free? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u245	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIZELOS" Hall, forty-three students and students and four teachers attending the Naples High School of Lassithi. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Let us inform you that you're attending a meeting on a bill from the Treasury. There is talk, then there will be a vote and there will be a state law. We move to the MP of SYRIZA Mr. Dimitrios Mardas. Here, Mr Marda, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u246	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall refer to two amendments. The first is Amendment No 973, which relates to the exceptional contribution to foreign airlines in 2008 and 2009. And having regard to the debate that has taken place, I would like to highlight two things. Why did we have this problem and why did any problem with airlines be observed? It's a problem that came to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in September and we moved along with any procedures planned to solve it. And we see it's solved now. This problem was raised because there is a mess with our legislative framework. There was a mess with the 2009-2010 legislative framework. Consider, now, the mess and the various interpretations of inappropriate laws of what they have caused. Three companies agreed to pay this contribution, despite the fact that they considered they should not pay it. This view is based on something that was not well-written, I suppose. One company has appealed to courts and another company has also been entitled to the same law, with the same rules it has brought to the courts and has not been justified with the result that the whole problem will come to the Council of State in the near future, so that a solution can be found. What do we see? We see that legislation, which is not properly written, causing various interpretations in the past, comes to our time and the consequences of this legislation come to our hands and we in the eyes of the world appear to be the accountable for a situation for which we are not responsible. And, of course, this is not the first time, and this time, of course, nothing has been heard by the Qualified Opposition, and it was right. But we have instances of old arrangements, which come to our hands at this time, because now something needs to be done and we are applying what has been agreed in the context of contracts in the past. And while we are applying earlier conventions, signed by older governments, representatives of the parties that ruled over the previous years and blame us on them. I will bring you the most characteristic example, which I can tell you is also a pedagogical example for universities. We were accused the other day that we were ‘inviting’ the country. Why do we 'combinate' the country? For we have allowed thirty-five thousand VLTs to function, they are the well-known "fruits". I did not remember both in 2015 and in 2016 to have legislated such a way as to find out that on 4-11-2011 the Greek Government then on Georgios Papandreou gave the OPAP the opportunity to import the thirty-five thousand "fruits" into the market. The Ministerial Decision on this was signed in 2013. There was a contract. The terms of this contract were transferred to the company which took over the PPP following the known tenders and the rest of the tenders. And it is time for a regulation to be written and applied, which is obliged under a contract to introduce the thirty-five thousand ‘fruits’. Who's responsible for this? Is it a government which is obliged to implement a contract or those who signed the contract or those who have imported the specific toy policy with any legislation or contract? Of course, someone will come to say, "But change it." The thought of a change led us to London's referees for compensation of 1,200 million. A regulation can be changed and, if there is a regulation that is not well written, it can be changed either by Parliament's advice or even by intervention from the European Commission. But the regulation cannot move outside the limits of a contract that had been signed in the past and proposed what it proposed. This particular remark was therefore completely inappropriate and, if you like, the specific designation for the 'fuelling' of the country on our behalf. Those who signed this agreement in 2011 and 2013 should think about this. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] I come to the second amendment suspending administrative sanctions under number 968. Watch what's going on. Here, admittedly, in the name of the protection of workers, clearly, and this extension must be granted, we do not discuss it. Of course, this process also introduces, as you can see, a practice, which means that in future it is difficult to deny it in similar cases, because there is the problem of equal treatment. Of course, there are court rulings and there are also some penalties. What we need to be careful about at some point and the Ministry should be careful is that the extension should indeed be given. We have - I repeat - a world that works. But do the businessmen concerned intend to apply or do they not show it? If they show it, they must somehow prove or that they have rented a space or that they are building something else in an area that is permitted or that they are in any way in a process of moving. Otherwise, it seeks to circumvent any decisions, by stepping on the sensitivity of the House in matters relating to the protection of work. Finally, I come to the amendment proposed with regard to the Swiss franc, moving from Mr Carras to number 982. The Swiss franc is a currency that since 1972 has been moving in any way he wants. It is a currency that is strong and has been very fluctuating since then. In 1972, on one night, the Swiss franc was revalued by 25%. That's why? Because the Swiss wanted to keep it in their country, don't come out of their country as a powerful currency, and through the multiplier process they finally don't know what quantities are circulating internationally. That's what the banks have known since 1972, a second-year student from the Department of Economic Sciences knows. Therefore, the banks' responsibility for the information they make in the world must be identified at some point. We, then, as an Aristotle University, informed the world of the risk that someone, who has been lending for twenty years, in a currency unstable - unstable with a dynamic and not opposite course - is in danger of losing their money, not because of a very low interest rate, but because of an exchange rate which is at stake in an unpredictable way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u247	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Vlachos has the floor from New Democracy, followed by Mr Dannelis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u248	Thank you, Mr President. I will devote my time to the two amendments which we have tabled with colleagues, and I am talking about the amendment with a general number of 995 and a special number of 153, and the amendment with a general number of 996 and a specialist of 154. How's that exactly about it? There are two problems, Minister, in the area of Laurent. On the occasion of the 'papers' - in fact - reaching the people of the region before fines have been established - we believe that there must be legislation which is unfair. We could agree with the amendment tabled by colleagues from SYRIZA, and I am speaking about the amendment with a general number of 991 and a special number 149. But we really believe that, despite the good intention of colleagues, the wording of this amendment is not correct, it does not solve the problem. Of course, we have heard you say earlier that you will not accept our amendments while accepting the amendment by SYRIZA colleagues. We will necessarily agree with the Members' amendment. But we wanted to say very clearly from the Step of the House that the problem will come back. We're not going to solve it. We solve it superficially and maybe not temporaryly. I'm not sure this flow of fines will stop. That is why we have brought in two amendments, which, once again, called the suspension of the adoption of administrative abortion protocols and, of course, the collection and execution of arbitrary-use compensation protocols and special compensation protocols, until the final documents of the Library of the Municipalities of Launching and Saronic. Only this wording ensures that fines are effectively suspended. But there is also a second problem, which we are confusing a little. And why are we confusing it? Look at the wording of colleagues in the amendment tabled. They report laws and say, say, n.1151/72. Anyone reading this, Minister, will understand that we're talking about 1972. But come on, we're not talking about 1972. We're talking about 1872, and it's not clear here. All the laws mentioned in the amendment by SYRIZA colleagues are 1800 and what follows. So then, then, v.719/77 came to collect these loose ends of the laws of 1800. What did that law provide for? That is the second problem I have talked about. It provided that all areas of agricultural land could be exploited and, of course, the 1967 aerial photographs could be exploited. Law 719, therefore, makes it clear that the legislator's wish to use the aerial photographs of '67 and not '45 or others, which until then were used by teachers. Of course, the citizens have so far made appeals. And I have to tell you that all these appeals were earning them. And they were next to win them, because the law was clear, both Law 719 and Law 1160, which, for what did not cover Law 719, came to correct the whole situation. So we said then that this law should be extended. Why did Law 719 do that? It did not take into account all the judicial decisions, which provided for arrangements for the Municipality of Keratea, but left the issue of Lavrio open and the issue of the current municipality of Saronicos. This is the legislative addition to be made. In other words, Law 719 must provide for what for Keratea, which is no problem, to provide for both municipalities of Laureate anymore and Saronic, but be careful, so as not to misunderstand ourselves, only where there are judicial decisions. We're not talking about the whole thing. If there is no judicial decision in a municipal community, obviously the law cannot be applied. So this is one: the extension of the law. Now, what the Greek State is claiming today is not about the non-expansion of Law 719. They are mainly urban property, at a rate of about 90%, which is with concessions. As I said, the citizens, the owners, went to register them in the Land register, and that's where they found that the public had put them. So there is a double registration of urban properties by both owners - private and Greek public. As a result, the Greek State was to wake up then and start sending fines to all owners. These fines are where we're going to stop today. And what do we say? Don't give anything to anyone, but wait for the register to be completed, see what belongs to who, and then let's actually send fines, where there are no property. But if these fines, which have been recommended today, are confirmed, you understand that we are in trouble with hundreds of people on a great adventure. And since even for the challenge, I think, 50% of the fine has to be paid to a fine of EUR 70,000, which has slightly reached the heart, you know who will be able to pay EUR 35,000 to testify to his challenge - his objection and claim his property. One last thing I want to say is that there is no misunderstanding, because we are talking about the hundred acres, and I am sure, Minister, that we will see them again in the next few days. This law, Law 719, provided for the regulation of agricultural land up to a hundred acres. For the more than a hundred acres we are saying - and to be understood to everyone - it is if someone had a larger area and was rural, and this proves whether it has titles of property, we say not to deal with the beneficial n.719, such as those with up to a hundred acres, but with the forestry law in question. However, this cannot be left open, because you understand that the Greek State will come, if you have more than a hundred acres, and it does not say where it will claim. There's no breakup, there's no setup. I would therefore like to believe that, with the amendment of colleagues, which seems to be accepted today, we are taking a first step. Perhaps, it is not the decisive step and after a few weeks or months, we will be in front of a new problem that will be invented by the service or services and these people will continue to suffer. I would say now, Minister, that you take into account the two amendments we have tabled, which really give a definitive and radical solution to the problem, both for the extension of Law 719 documentary and for the effective suspension of fines. At a later stage, after you have studied it, we can all come with one amendment together and give a radical solution to the problem, which, in our view, will continue to exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u249	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Dannelis, a Parliamentary representative from Potami, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u250	Thank you, Mr President. To my colleague and colleague Mr Loverdos, who is now absent from the Chamber, I would like to say that I am one of those who believe in the need for consultation and, of course, the unity of the centre and the centre-left area. I absolutely believe it. This, however, is not built with the encouragement of MEPs' movements and remnants elected by a popular mandate to the party with which they are exposed. Obviously, it is a matter of conscience alone and of each Member's relationship with his party. Of course, it is his right to have independence from his party when he considers that it does not cover his principles. But the transfer of parliamentary seats from one party to another raises issues of political morality. And obviously, anything but helps build relationships between us. I would not have made this comment if Mr Loverd hadn't mentioned this before. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already said so from this point of view many times in recent times. We're heading for the perfect storm. Nevertheless, we do not seem to understand the absolute criticality of the moments. We do not want to reach agreement, we do not want or we cannot see the reality. We believe that, as yesterday, everything can be postponed indefinitely and the country can operate on an automatic pilot. But the time has come for decisions. Are the measures to be taken painfully? Of course, it's painful. If we had completed the negotiations when we had to, and our credibility we would have kept, but the measures would have been less costly. This is because, with constant delays, new gaps are being introduced, which we are being asked to meet with new measures. The scenario is known, we have experienced it as a society and as a political system over the last years of the crisis. That is why there are no excuses. We have been living it since 2010, starting from the first antimonist then, Mr Samaras, and his Zappipia, until today. Every new postponement means a new disproportionate burden on the Greek taxpayer's back. Of course, the solution is not either the heroic exit or the invocation of the elections. Political liquidation will only bring about total destruction. The shipment will be extremely heavy for any Greek government that is called upon to lift it. Genuine patriotism and genuine patriotic sensitivity should have prompted the government to close the evaluation in order to bring about the anonymous recovery. What's the stake here? I think we should be clear: Every day of delays jeopardise what the Greek people have achieved with trouble and disproportionate sacrifices. There is a risk that the already sequestranted bank reserve will be reduced. The pressures from the European Central Bank are increasing again dangerously, just as happened in 2015's proud negotiation, leaving the Greek banks to the size of ELA. And things are getting more difficult, given that the German pressures on Mario Draghi are intensified, for tighter budgets, i.e. higher interest rates and an end to the mass bond markets, revision and termination of the quantitative relaxation programme, in which we are, of course, so anticipated. Are we gonna make it? And I would remind you, however, that we in this Chamber recognised the optimistic economic indicators a while ago and urged you to take advantage of the apparent positive momentum. But you have not only taken advantage of it, but you are in danger of losing it. Take advantage of what's left of it, let's get rid of it. Because with the indecision, the humiliation, the fear of managing the inner-party audience, you are destroying even those few that you have managed to build. Let's go back quickly. All the objectives are to red, to development, to budget, at financial level. There is nothing for granted, neither the expected growth rates nor the high surpluses nor the write-down of red loans. As long as you remain committed to a privatization-related ambiguity, blocking the use of real estate, while insisting on a model of economy that is not entrepreneurship-friendly and growth, while insisting that you do not face the structural problem of long-term unemployment, but trying to do so with state aspirins, the economy will not return to a path of sustainable development. The optimistic forecasts of the 2017 budget are obvious that they cannot benefit with already lost in the first quarter and, of course, with the above-mentioned conditions. And this is where the lyrics of Dionysis Savvopoulou fit in the "Angelos Angelos": "After he had no new pleasant words, he would rather not tell us anyone." And, of course, I am thinking of dealing with a governmental impact on the risk code we had the other day from the central banker. He's doing his job. On the other hand, those who dream of "Marshall projects" may, of course, sound pleasant in the ears of all of us, but they have nothing to do with today's reality, because "god from America" has long been retired. So listen, Minister - finally - to the cry of anguish of the real economy. Do not forget that the only sector that seems to still operate - and I refer to the heavy industry in our country, tourism - is at a very critical time. This is the period of detention ahead of the summer season. And it will be disastrous if regressions, delays, climate of uncertainty destroy a dynamic that seems to be recorded. British tourist agents are talking about an increase of 40%. Data from Germany speak of a 70% increase. However, what we must do primarily is what is to remain in our local and national economy and not just the number of arrivals. Unfortunately, the uncertainty and lack of liquidity that pushes Greek tourist entrepreneurs leads to their selling to the tour operators rooms at degrading prices, even until 2021, to gain relative liquidity. So let us not doubt the dominant, certainly, of the few sources of real income in the country. Ladies and gentlemen, state-owned capitalism, never and nowhere, nor has it long-dated nor, of course, has it ensured prosperity in societies. PPC, although a monopoly company, although a retailer, is on the verge of collapse. In other words, this is a very easy equation, but the company's long-term managers were unable and unable to resolve it. Genocide PPC itself states that in two months' time the company will not be able to afford only wage and salary. And we find the opening to competition and the resolution of the company, which will have a double positive effect for both the consumer and the remaining state company, illustrating the "little" PPC that was launched, but which is now at risk of bankruptcy for PPC as a whole, the "great" PPC. Beyond normalization, we must not forget that our gaze must be directed towards the common European energy market, which is another point, another place for European states to meet. It's in the new multi-speed architecture, as they refer to. That's where we have to be present. That's where we have to move, since it's the field in which we invest so much. Let us realise, ladies and gentlemen, that if we continue to do so, costs in the real economy will be borne primarily by the weaker ones. The treading of uncertainty also deregulations what remains - even necro-liberal - on the market. So talk to the new entrepreneurs. Talk to the new unemployed armies. Let us finally understand that the damage that is being threatened is much greater than the burden of the difficult decisions that need to be taken now. I do not want to add anything to the legislation because it is certain that I will be heard in a common place. I will only comment on two amendments. In relation to the amendment concerning the Greek Union for Human Rights, even lately, you have brought an amendment which really settles a large part of the demands of this union. However, although the amendment is in the right direction, it presents a number of issues. It does not explicitly ensure the territorial autonomy of the ECHR, although there is the known history of its offices with the interventions of the punctual memory, Mr Baltaku. It is also a question, once you have intervened in the number of the terms of the terms of office of its scientific associates. It is therefore clear from the amendment that their reintegration can take place up to twice, while the ECHR, assuming that these are specific requirements and specifications, would like to have been able to remain for more terms, since they have been aware of the way the association operates. In relation to the amendment to address the unpleasant problems of borrowers with a Swiss franc parity, I stress that this is a very serious issue which concerns thousands of our fellow citizens and must be clearly settled. However, this must be done in a coordinate way, well-designed, in order to be effective. It is therefore the government's duty to manage it with due seriousness, and the opposition will obviously support it as a whole. Therefore, instead of having an attempt to deal with a great existing problem by the amendment, the Government should ensure, Minister, that it is properly regulated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u251	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs. Scouffa has the floor for seven minutes. Then it's you, Mr. Saridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u252	Thank you, Mr President. With our amendment with other fellow Members on the side of SYRIZA, we are trying and proposing to strengthen the work of the school committees and the school tax on minority schools. To inform Members who do not know, I would say that the school committees are legal persons of a non-profit-making nature. Their boards are composed of the relevant vice mayor of the municipality, municipal councillors of the opposition and town councilling, directors of the primary and secondary education of regional units, school directors, representatives of the parents' association and representatives of the pupils. Basic and very important work is, through the funds that mainly receive from the Ministry of Interior, to deal with various operational costs of school units, see oil and heating, water, electricity and the restoration of small losses. Another middle school - or small if you want - their range income is revenue from so-called school cans. What we are asking, Minister, with this amendment, is for school committees and tax exemptions to be exempted from income tax so that they can be facilitated and strengthened even more economically. On the basis of this amendment, I would like to say that I have had contact with a municipal council dealing with the school committee, which said to me attributes: 'If we have to pay the minimum income for the canteens and the little, unfortunately, financial assistance we have from the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Education, through the award of books, if these small financial aid received by the school committees, we also add the fact that we have to pay tax, then what we can spend on public schools is much less.' So by exempting these school committees from income tax, we give them a little breath, instead of paying the tax, to pay school expenses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u253	Thank you, my colleague. For twelve minutes, the Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, Mr Saridis, has spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u254	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the incorporation of European Directive 92/2014 into our national legislation is another decision that we have been late to take, another small step forward that we should have taken long ago. Even after six months we have to strengthen the framework of the common European market for the benefit of the Greek citizen as a European businessman and a consumer. On the way to more Europe, we must first ensure that common rules exist and function, which protect and strengthen economic activity as a result and as an obligation of all European states. We are in favour of any initiative aimed at effectively protecting consumers' rights and at the same time favouring European entrepreneurship. On the principle of the draft law on the transposition of Directive 92/2014 into domestic law, the rapporteur of the Union of Centres, Mr Katsiantonis, was already positively placed on the basis of which we will vote in favour of the draft law under discussion. For the unacceptable way in which you choose to legislate, I have not stopped complaining to myself or many colleagues in this Chamber, and more than ever since we heard Mr Skourletis claim that the government has improved and so to take care of what we say when we talk about the legislative initiatives of the government. What you bring us, however, remain regardless of each other, no matter how you baptize them. Both late and unspeakable amendments remain your choice the basic way to legislate in Greece today. Worst thing, though, isn't. The worst of your legislative initiatives is another and they come soon. I am referring to the laws that Mr Skourletis has asked us to remember, before we can imagine, we dare to talk about bad government practices, legislation from the point of view of SYRIZA. We were asked by the government to remember, as an example, the two hundred and fifty articles of the six different ministries of Law 4281, the one hundred and twelve articles of the eight different ministries of Law 4172, the four hundred pages of the six different ministries of Law 4152. These are all the laws that the previous speakers voted on. And he invoked these laws as an example, to claim on the one hand, that the previous ones did worse and therefore they are not entitled to speak, and on the other hand to convince us that you have improved. I wonder. I'm really wondering. With Amendment No 1000, do you invoke and claim that you have improved? With the five articles of four different ministries in a multi-project which we would have liked to vote on three or two, or to say'residences' to something that we disagreed, can we do that? We can't do it. You didn't improve. You do not understand that nobody compares you to what the Greek citizens expect of you, what you promised. So, honestly, you think the Greeks don't see your own mistakes, why the mistakes of the previous government and serving the country were worse than yours? I am also curious if these laws will be remembered by you when you bring us to vote on measures and countermeasures. Gentlemen of the Government, for the good of all of us, for the good of Greece, I invite you to stop comparing yourself with the mess of post-multipleism and begin to wonder, at last, if you satisfy the hopes and expectations of the Greek people. Instead of another protest with a view to highlighting a very important issue that, in fact, affects the Greek society, on the occasion of the amendments under consideration, from their nature and the subject matter, I would like to make a special reference to the unacceptable situation that is being faced by any of our fellow citizens who decide to react to the insulting behaviour of some of the major lawyers in Athens, who allegedly undertake to inform the borrowers on behalf of the banks, thereby bypassing the limitations of the collector companies. In cooperation with the Association of Borrowers of Northern Greece and President Pervana, on the occasion of and the submission of the draft law on extrajudicial compromises, and after we have studied the recent guide sent by the European Central Bank, having, of course, found that the recent provision of the Code of Conduct, which provides that only once can lawyers and lawyers inform citizens, in the context of finding an out-of-court solution, we will examine the scope of legislative initiatives to stop the suffering of those exercising their rights, but have the misfortune to live outside Athens. Citizens' complaints against Athens' lawyers find a wall in front of them and this must be stopped. I am tabling the report by the Association of Borrowers and Consumer Protection of Northern Greece. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Saridis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I commit that the Central Association will take every possible initiative through parliamentary procedures to conclude a legislative framework for the protection of borrowers. We will also ask for the help of all political parties. I now go on to comment on the amendments to some of them, as some of them have already been put in place by our rapporteur. I have already placed myself on Amendment No 1000. The Centro Association will vote against it, precisely because it includes five articles through four different ministries. It's not the right way to legislate. As far as commenting and starting from the last amendments are concerned, Amendment No 997 on airport modernisation and development charges and Amendment No 998 on the regulation of the procedure and on the implementation of the agreements on coproduction and refreshing programmes in which the EOT is involved, I would like to say that both of them should be presented with arguments from the relevant ministers and be subject to a serious debate. I do not accept whether it is a good thing or not what the Minister has invoked, namely whether he is a passenger citizen or a taxpayer. That is not a criterion, to see if and who is of interest. The Union of Centres and on one hand it will vote'residents'. With regard to Amendment 983 on the regulation of issues of assistant teachers, first of all it shows that it is on the right track, because it now applies to all substitutes the arrangements governing permanent teachers of special education without discrimination, while the criteria are made in line with those applicable to the transfers of permanent teachers. But there is one ambiguity within this amendment. The Minister did not commit to giving a solution. He said we'd wait until the end of the second review, let's see. This ambiguity is about not recruiting permanent teachers for two years. Following the Minister's commitment that after the closure of the second assessment, I would like to say that we are waiting for a whole year for the second assessment to be closed. Will we expect to vote on this amendment on the basis of this commitment? That is how we call 'the present'. As far as Amendment No 988 is concerned, the suspension of the operation of professional establishments and the imposition of specific financial penalties are concerned, we say'represent', because we want to combat tax evasion, but not with amendments which come at the last moment before their adoption and which have not been adopted - this is the main - the consultation of the institutions and bodies concerned and associations, so that the contentious view has been expressed and heard in every respect. For example, there is a provision that gives the Commander of the Independent Public Income Authority overcompensation. Why, too, is there a distinction between suspension of a professional establishment and the imposition of a financial penalty in the case of undertakings with specific activities? So why can't a hotel shut down and close a restaurant accordingly? With regard to Amendment No 989 on the regulation of matters concerning the possibility of establishing organised wholesale markets for fresh agricultural products in all regions of the territory by natural or legal persons governed by public or private law and the amendment to remove the exclusive right of the Central Market of Patras for the wholesale sale of fresh agricultural products, we will support these amendments. As regards the amendment with a general number 994, which relates to the granting of a percentage of the meaning of Greek public property to the National Defence Fund, this refers to the Camp of Paul Mela, a camp of the city of Thessaloniki. We do not see why we should not support it, especially when we must not leave a small property problem, to influence this transfer of space to the Municipality of Paul Mela. In conclusion, I would like to tell you what is happening right now in Thessaloniki. Workers are occupied at the offices of the Governor of the EAT. Why do you know that? It is a result of your own policy, that of turning problems and responsibilities to others into time and not saying truths. The country has been wounded over time by policy-free, unplanned, shifting responsibility to the next. No government from Migration and then it did not think what the opportunityal policy of increasing its electoral base would cause in the country. You do it yourself. You'll do it with the countermeasures. Don't think about doing it. Behave with dignity and braveness in the face of the problems that your own policy has now been responsible and give a ready political solution with vision and hope to the Greek people, to all Greeks, or say your weakness as a government, and ask either the contribution of the entire political world to the effort to get out of the crisis or the opinion of the Greek people, through the democratic procedures envisaged, as to whether you were sufficient in the face of the hopes you have cultivated in the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u255	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty-seven students and students and four educational attendants from the 1st Priveza Municipal School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Alexandros Meikopoulou has the floor for seven minutes from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u256	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the internal market is an area without frontiers in which the free movement of goods, persons, services and capital is ensured. The smooth functioning of the internal market and the development of a modern economy without social exclusion is therefore increasingly dependent on universal provision of payment services. The lack of a clear and uniform framework of rules on payment accounts and payment account providers within the European Union was therefore an obstacle. Speaking of payment account providers, we mean credit institutions, electronic money issuing institutions, postal cheque offices and, of course, national central banks, including the European Central Bank, since we are talking about incorporating the European directive into our national law. Account payments are summarised, for example, in payments to public, insurance companies, insurance funds, energy, water, telecommunications, rentals, transfers abroad, taking into account, of course, the limitations on capital controls. The incorporation, therefore, of the Cash Instruction Directive and payment of the accounts through payment servicers enables transparency, comparability and simplification in their use. The lack of transparency and comparability of fees, as well as the difficulties in changing a payment account, have thus far created obstacles to the development of a complete, integrated market, resulting in the low competition of retail financial services. In addition, as regards payment service providers, the creation of uniform rules on the provision of payment services and the information to be provided reduces the administrative burden and contributes to the reduction of costs, enabling them to provide cheaper services. To date, consumer mobility has been and is low in financial services, due to the non-transparency and comparability of fees, resulting in a lack of confidence. So this bill is confronted with these distortions. Therefore, according to Article 7 of the draft law, the obligation of the competent authority designated by the Bank of Greece is the award of an online table comparing fees for the most representative services. This online table is subject to equal treatment of payment service providers with accurate, codified, standardised and up-to-date information and with a clear reference to the last hour of information. In this way, therefore, the principle of equal information for all citizens is guaranteed, helping to transparently and to combat the so-called finest letters of these conventions, which were mostly at the expense of the citizen. This allows consumers, comparing and selecting their payment service, naturally maximising their benefit. The payment service obligation to inform consumers, services and charges before the signature of the contract, together with the obligation to inform the consumer every three months about what he has paid for each product, how many times, as well as the cost of its payment, contribute to the principle of transparency and the protection of the consumer himself. Furthermore, the provision for a change of provider, from the consumer’s point of view, is also important without excessive charges and timely procedures in accordance with Article 9 of the draft law. This process is handled by the new provider through a consumer authorisation. There is also provision for opening payment accounts and for asylum seekers. I would like to focus in particular on Article 18 of the bill, which allows the consumer to charge if it does not comply with the commitments for a reasonable fee. This is to take into account the level of national income and the average fees charged by credit institutions for these services. Knowing the bad precedent of the high commission even today of POS, as well as the high interest rate on bank loans in relation to the rest of Europe, specialisation and clarification is required by a joint ministerial decision. The principle of transparency and consumer protection also provides for the imposition of penalties in the event of breaches of the conditions of use and of the payment services. Article 17 also provides for a free or reasonable fee for certain categories of services, such as the provision of funds, opening up and closing of accounts, cash withdrawals, etc. Finally, there is the obligation of the Member States to exchange information and cooperation, in cases of research into the fight against money and money laundering, a wound which not only deprives revenue from the State and affects the institution of the rule of law, but which at the same time takes the cost of this evasion of all citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u257	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Mandas, will follow, and immediately thereafter Mr Vardalis, with a denial from the Communist Party of Greece and will close the meeting. Then we enter the votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u258	Mr President, I too would like to take the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u259	You didn't ask for it, but it's obviously no problem. Here, Mr. Mada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u260	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I think there is no doubt that on all sides of Parliament it has been pointed out that the incorporation of this European directive is helpful, is positive, and I do not think there has been any particular objection or doubt on it. Any opposition, at least what I have heard from the Quaestorial Opposition and other parties, has dealt with issues of good legislation on the one hand, namely the amendments which we have discussed many times in this Chamber and, on the other hand, the general issues to which I shall refer. We should go to one, one topics. Firstly, I would like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that there is a specific structure within the framework of the General Secretariat of the Government, which follows the process of legislating and submits a report between the others and the President of Parliament and the Government, obviously. And I would also like to say that the government's bills in both 2015 and 2016 included, in particular, regulations concerning the adoption of implementing laws in relation to creditors agreed, as well as initiatives concerning the implementation of the parallel programme. I would like to stress here that the implementing laws were basically not applicable to Article alone but were applicable laws which, at a general level, followed the rules of good legislation in their structure, since they were divided into chapters and left the possibility of opposing or supporting individual articles. Also, the Minister has given evidence, I do not want to go back to it, as far as the amendments are concerned, and how this evolved in 2014, 2015 and 2016. The reasons for which there are amendments - and this has to be heard - in the parliamentary procedure were that these arrangements were put forward as amendments and were not incorporated at the outset as articles or because they were issues which were very well raised - and you know that in the negotiations either because they were approved by the co-legislative ministries following the search for the necessary financial resources or because they solved urgent lack of time, for example, that they had to be extended. I think that those who are studying very specifically the amendments that have been made will come to the conclusion - and I do not want to be entirely clear - that, in their overwhelming majority, they were amendments concerning, on the one hand, implementing provisions resulting from the negotiation and, in principle, from the rest of the part, they were positive provisions, which, by a large majority, many times - and we will see it in the specific amendments, those that come today, I have already heard from the Socialist Group that some of them will vote on them - were voted on by a large majority. I will go a little more specifically now to the amendment by the Ministry of Economy and Development, because the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, Mr Denkias, has also been mentioned. In Article 1, in the amendment to cover the national part of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport's public investment programme for a specific project, study, construction, financing of the project 'Korinthos - Tripoli - Kalamata and the Lefktro - Sparta', what we are doing is to implement Mr Sufflia's Law 3559/2007, because it concerns the public service obligations laid down by this law and, indeed, we are enabling them to be covered by the Public Investment Programme so that the state budget is not imposed. We're just doing that. We don't do anything extrem or something I don't know, photographing certain specific interests. After all, it is well known that, through the renegotiation of the major motorways, we have had a very significant benefit of more than EUR 600 million and within a short time the whole of the motorways will be granted to the traffic. That's the situation. There you can tell us, then, whether we were right or wrong and whether we were really confronted, if you would like. We're too open to this. Nor was it understood by any side of the Opposition, not by the Civic Opposition, that the amendment concerning the specific airport charge, is in the direction of reducing and unifying either the fourteen airports granted to the 'FRAPORT' or the rest. There's a mix-up somewhere, I think, and I don't think we should be messing with everything. Where there are objections, listen to them, confrontation and so on. I would also like to talk about the amendment from the Ministry of Education. I will try to do so myself - I think the Minister has attempted this - for my part to say two things. First of all for the graduates of the two Special Education Divisions, and if anyone sees it in practice, it doesn't change anything. In fact, the Minister promised that the joint ministerial decision would bring it into public consultation and, indeed, there could be interventions such as to ensure these graduates. However, no one can be serious about science anymore, claiming that other similar qualifications, for example, in the field of education, when they have additional qualifications, postgraduate, doctorate, etc., should not enter this process. Indeed, there is no fundamental problem, as the graduates from these schools are about two thousand teachers and the needs of the substitute teachers of Special Education are close to the five thousand. Apart from the fact that - and I want to say this in public terms, in the parliamentary procedure - after eight years of being set up under the SYRIZA Government - ANEL five hundred thirty-one part-sessions in general schools, three special kindergartens, nine special primary schools, nine special professional schools and twelve lyric classes in existing special professional schools. This creates additional needs. It is certain that these needs - and I think that all sides of this House agree - must finally be met in a visible time horizon with permanent staff. In this respect - I think that there is no second opinion - we must go, which does not allow us to implement all these restrictions immediately. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a few more general comments on what has been heard about the critical moments, hours and days, in the effort made by the government to close the evaluation with a sustainable agreement. First of all, the issue of delay has also been brought back to this Chamber. Let me remind you once again that the International Monetary Fund since December 2015 has been calling for 3.5 billion additional measures and last December asked for unilateral measures of 4 billion. What were we supposed to do? To close the agreement in a unilateral direction for additional austerity and thus further exacerbate the field of the Union's energy policy? Today, after the last Eurogroup, we are in the direction of'measures and countermeasures', which have a zero budgetary effect. I am not saying that these cannot cause any problems. I don't claim that. But I think we will see it and I hope very soon that this agreement will be very specific and targeted at the weakest. One is that. So that was a advance in the negotiation, which gives us an extra possibility. And yes, we work intensively, we fight hard for the issues that are open. We have explained too many times to work - because this is a crucial element in the process of restoring collective bargaining with what this means, such as expansion, a more favourable contract, etc. - that this is an element of a development that we are visionary about, which we want is fair, that is to say that workers are involved in it. Also in the open issues concerning pensions and energy issues, which have opened up new issues on the part of creditors - and we know that. I am surprised that Mr Skourlet's statements and interviews have amazed the Parliamentary Representative of Democratic Incorporation. It was not surprising, however, that Mr Simitis' interview last night, according to which Mr Simitis was more or less identified - and I do not know whether the Democratic Assent is in this line - with the Mitsotakis line. That's what this is about. The man who, as the Government representative rightly said today, watched the hatred pass. That's what this is about. Mistresses, massages, massages and bags with money. Wasn't that the situation? Have we forgotten, or do they think that we and the Greek people can forget this so easily? So - to finish - I think with a sobriety and a temper, we need to deal with these critical times of hard work in the negotiation process. We have full confidence in the negotiating team, in the people who are negotiating all these issues, in George Stathakis, in Eukleidis Tsakalotos, in Efi Ahtsoglou, and we are sure that they will try to bring the best possible result to these difficult, hard conditions that we are living in a troubled Europe. Let us not forget under any circumstances, a more general framework which is in incredible liquidity and instability. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that today's bill can also be passed on to all the government and Parliamentary amendments that have been accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u261	Thank you. Mr Vorides will now speak. He has asked for the floor, and Mr Constantinople who was absent in his turn, but we have been informed that he will be coming now. We'll close with the two special speakers, Mr. Fortsakis and Mr. Vardalis. Mr. Voridis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u262	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is absolutely clear and understandable what is happening at political level. One does not need to be particularly intelligent or highly flexible in political terms to understand it. SYRIZA's government is falling apart because it fails to provide for it. It breaks down because he has no script, collapses because he doesn't have a plan, collapses because he fails universally. In the last quarter of 2016, predicted recession, most likely, in the first quarter of 2017. This in very simple terms means that the 2.7% growth target for 2017 is not possible. Failure of this objective means failure in budgetary figures, because all budget figures have been calculated with this objective. Above all, this government is preparing to harm exactly the layers it was supposed to have come to defend, the people with a income of EUR 500 of whom it will receive taxes, the pensioners of EUR 1 000 and the 800 of whom it will cut pensions. The equivalent measures are comedy. They are measures which will apply if the targets are achieved and if the 35% surpluses are achieved, which the members of the government themselves say are not possible. Plan doesn't exist. There's no more targeting out of the memoirs. Why? Because the delay in evaluation also makes this objective impossible. So good news doesn't exist in front of you. You only have bad news for the Greek people. And because you only have bad news for the Greek people, what is it that you have thought about doing? You have thought of investing in the beautiful blush account: "We are left because we remembered Nikos Belogannis". Well done, for whomever concerns them well, go and get in touch with them and explain how you and Nikos Belogannis are privatising - and with these terms - PPC. You'll get along with this audience wonderfully. Secondly, you will invest in the known history of Scandalology. To be informed, the New Democracy is in place. All in the light. Mr. Mada, Mr. Teddy, I address you. You are Parliamentary representatives, so you are standing in this Chamber instead of the leaders of Parliament's two largest delegations. I say that to myself. I hear something about the Dunan scandal. I saw a nice headline in "AYI", which speaks of five Blue Ministers. Mr. Mada, ladies and gentlemen, the file is in the House. He has access to anyone who wants from you. You will go within the next few days and you will come and tell me if I have committed a criminal offence, because I have come to Parliament and the House has voted for a specific provision. You're gonna tell me that. If I have committed a criminal offence, you will bring here a proposal to set up a preliminary committee that concerns me. If you don't do it in the next few days, I won't hear any more of what I'm concerned about, 'Dynan's' scandal and any other scandal. The rumors, the muds, the chats, the implied ones, that ends for me. Do you have anything to say? Bring it now. Preliminary committee. You will explain why the Minister, who is proposing to the House a specific provision - not in his home, not in a note, not secretly, but here openly in Parliament - which is voted on by Parliament, is doing an illegal act. You'll explain it. You'll tell me the crime. You will tell what is the offence of Metarakis and Hatzidakis. Because their offense is they didn't see Martin. Hatzidakis why he did not oversee Mitarakis, who refused to see Martin the condom for the actual dynan scandal. You're gonna say that. You'll tell us the crimes. You will tell what is the offence of Georgiadis, who has asked for command to be appointed in “Dynan”, to leave the administration of Martin and appointed by court. You'll say his crime. You'll tell it in the next few days here. Leave the exams. Not what the Prime Minister says: 'we're doing an examination and we'll look' and we'll be dragging and we'll say something. Oh, no. Correspondence is here. Mr Manda, do you recognize every Member and fellow Member's right to defend his honor and reputation? Do you recognize that, colleagues? For all of us, do you recognize that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u263	Of course!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u264	Good! So I want you to exercise your right. This is my colleagues. You will exercise your right and tell me my crime. If there's no offense, I don't want to hear from you again. Lexis! Responsibly, nice and clear. I come to the practice of legislation. I heard self-criticism. Mr. Teddy, what are you going to do with this? How long will you stand - and I speak in the Democratic Partnership - I speak in the river too, I speak throughout the opposition - this practice? Undocumented without any urgency. Did it happen in the past, Mr. Manda? Yeah, it was. On what issues, do you remember? Always a memorial, always an emergency, always associated with completion of evaluations, always under the pressure of certain situations. It's in the right seat. It's legislative practice. Do you want us to legislate together? I have an opinion on the amendments. Would you like an abbreviated legislative procedure, which ends in committees to facilitate the government? To finish with the committees and only to come here for a 'yes' or 'no' without debate. Let's do it. But this can't be the practice here. It's unacceptable practice. I just want to say two things about the bill. We are voting against this provision that you are bringing it - the Justice Ministry brings it - and it concerns the issue of postponement. Remember what a steroid is. The deferral was a provision which was introduced in order to be incorrect in order to defer to the courts and was introduced as a measure, on the one hand, to make legal aid revenue and, on the other, to put an end to misappropriated deferrals. We voted against this then. So does a provision come in which he does? Excludes the public, the legal persons governed by public law and the TAs from the payment of this infringement. Is that correct? That's right. I'll tell you in part right and partly wrong. That is right in terms of its basic aim, namely that it takes the paradox seriously back, because it creates and creates inequality between the public and the private, a mistake which will be judged at court level. We are voting against it, not because we do not want the paradox to leave - we want the paradox to leave - but because we want it to go for everyone and not just for the public. We have tabled an amendment. From what I heard, Minister, I was not here because I had another party obligation, we tabled an amendment with colleagues in the Attica Region, and the colleagues in the SYRIZA Attica Region also tabled an amendment which I learned you were accepting on the side of the suspension of the administrative abortion protocols - especially in this case it has been explained here, I will not extend - the Municipality of Laurent. You were right to accept this amendment by SYRIZA colleagues. We, colleagues from the Democratic Independent Greeks, had tabled an amendment to this effect. But to agree that this is not a solution. It's a parole. The solution lies in the amendment we have tabled to you. That's the solution. It is incomprehensible to raise public rights in an area today, since undisturbedly over decades with recognised titles, by law, people have exercised ownership rights. With building permits the public have been built. They're going today and they're pulling out the public discharge protocols themselves. This is a comedy! These are the irrationalities that occur in the Greek State. What you did save them from the immediate danger of execution, that is, they will throw them out of their shops and their homes, but they will not be spared from the wider unfinishedness created. Obviously, if they go to the courts, they will be justified - there are no doubts about this - but we will now send thousands of people to the courts, why has a greedy service, which does not have the courage and courage to interpret the provisions correctly? Are we gonna send them there or are we gonna set it up? The regulation is in the amendment that you have not accepted. I hope that you will regulate this issue in the next few years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u265	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Constantinople is not in the Chamber. We're gonna get into the second grades. Then, obviously, we'll close the meeting. We cannot go back to speakers. I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, thirty-three students and students and three educational attendants from the 2nd Filipida High School of Preveza. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Fortsakis has the floor for his denology. Then, Mr Vardalis, you are and we are closing the sitting and voting. Mr. Fortsakis, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u266	Thank you very much, Mr President. I said this morning that I made all the comments that time allowed me, the general principle of the bill and the amendments that I had been able to read until that time. Indeed, Minister, it has been heard many times today in the House that this practice is deadlocked because it does not allow the House to do its job. As much as I have tried these hours, I have not been able to get the information I should have had on all these amendments, some of which are mini-evident bills and contain many sub-committees themselves, which want research and research. Some may go in the right direction. It is a pity to waste our time here without saying anything about it. I would therefore like, in this five-minute period, to comment on the sixteen amendments that have come to be added from yesterday to those already included - thirty-six amendments for twenty-six articles. I shall begin with - first of all with Amendment 982/144, which refers to loans with a Swiss franc. We are negative in this kind of intervention, because we believe that there is a framework right now, which protects the socially fragile fellow citizens who, in fact, need protection and those who have borrowed a Swiss franc. It was right to hear that the Swiss franc has huge fluctuations, that banks today provide a range, if you like, of private loan arrangements, including those borrowed in a Swiss franc, which, if they are in difficulty, can make repayments according to their capacity. I think that we should not regulate horizontally, but strengthen the banks' ability to regulate the various issues that are being raised. I would remind you that those who had borrowed a Swiss franc had for a shorter rate, which is happy. It doesn't mean they have to pay more now, but anyway, there are other groups that have been most affected. With regard to Amendment No 983 and specific number 145 on special education, I spoke this morning, and I am going to come back to my conviction that those who have a special education degree must be absolutely preceded. I want this to be understood. Postgraduate and doctorate are important, strengthen the basic degree. But we have many times postgraduate and doctorate which have nothing to do with the basic degree, and this does not replace the knowledge obtained in the basic degree. I said it this morning and I want it to be heard again. An example is the Law School, which gives doctoral law to non-lawyers. So there comes one who has a doctorate and says: 'Take me a lawyer, make me a judge'. No, it can't be because you don't have a basic degree. The basic degree of special education itself must have it, so that it can do this work in a sector that is extremely important and critical and has remained far behind in our education. With regard to the issue of Amendment No 988 and specific number 146, i.e. the suspension, closure of stores, I would like to point out that although it has a number of issues correctly, it includes a paragraph 8, which is extremely dangerous, because despite the improvements made, the issue remains open and what companies can be included in the strict measures and how and how the commander can transform the penalty for closure with a fine. There had to be some criteria. Of course there must be some discretionary power of the commander, who must adapt reality to the law, but there must also be criteria, so that we do not have situations of extremism, which is pushed by the very wide range of fines that are set from EUR 1,000 to EUR 5,000, without including criteria for how the fine will be imposed. We say yes to the strict penalties for those who have infringed taxation, yes to the unrestricted and systematic sanction, but in analogy, and with a system which can have transparency, objectivity, so that there can also be judicial control which all citizens are entitled to, even those who have unlawfully. With regard to Amendment No 989 and specific number 147, which speaks of the Central Plant Market in Patras, we will be positive. With regard to the amendment with general number 994 and specific number 152 we are negative. It is the concession of a proportion of the Greek government's ownership. I think here we have a gift actually of the property of TEDA to a particular municipality a gift without consideration. We had previously made a proposal that had received the consent of the parties. It would have been preferable to have turned to that proposal and to have brought it to the surface. With regard to Amendment No 997 and specific number 155 on airport modernisation, this is indeed a defamation of costs and even though the obligation to pay these EUR 12 which are too much in relation to other countries remains, however, there is indeed a reduction, although this reduction is compensated for by the fact that the children up to two who were exempted now have to reach the five to be exempted. This is of great importance to the traveling families, because another is to pay 50 euros for two children and another to pay 24 euros. I now come to the amendment with a general number 998 and a specialist 156 on the implementation of agreements on coproduction and refresher programmes involving the EOT. This has been as far back as I can remember. It was the 862 of 1990 which was withdrawn at the time, because that was clearly predicted, that there would be a derogation from Law 4412 for public contracts, and here the derogation exists without its name being mentioned. In fact, we have one of the same things, but without the regulation that you have put to the vote directly, and that is why we will be negative. The amendment with a general number of 999 and a special number of 157, gives an extension for the system of preliminary protection. This should have been regulated, and perhaps there is also one issue with regard to the remuneration of the chairman of the Committee on Proceedings, because it is like those who are actually in charge of constitutional principles, and this involves an inequality. In any case, because I understand that the negative vote here will create a problem for the principle to which the government has not made progress in time, we here will be saying'residents'. For Amendments Nos 995, 996, 990, 991 and 1002, which are above similar, we will support 991, which seems to absorb the others. The amendment with a general number of 1000 and a specialist 158 is truly amazing that it is a mini-legislative bill, which has five articles, each of which has many regulations again. It takes half a day to comment on it. The main thing is that it seems to provide indemnification from the Public Investment Programme. The Public Investment Programme has a specific purpose and cannot be used for anything, the budget should be charged with it. It also makes a new structure, which seems to me bureaucratic, even though there is another structure, which seems to be no longer the Special Program and Planning Agency. It's a heavy process. We will be negative in this provision and, above all, in order to be able to study it, because it has so many instruments that it is impossible to comment and understand them at the minimum time. I shall close, with Amendment No 1001 and special 159, which is a provision which seems to be going in the right direction, it is the provision that speaks of the school committees and the tax obligations, the submission of a tax declaration, etc. This is coming in a short time with a parliamentary amendment. We would prefer it to have come more systematically with a government initiative integrated into a broader context, so that we can study it and integrate it properly, because it goes in the right direction to the right direction of the whole legislation. That is why we shall vote 'at present' on it. I should like to close, Mr President, by saying once again that I am really very sorry that our role as parliamentarians has been so degraded. I really feel that I'm unable to do my work with this tactic that the government is following. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u267	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The last speaker is Mr Vardalis with his second language from the JRC. Here, Mr Vardalis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u268	Thank you, Mr President. I would first like to make a comment on what the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, Mr Mandas, said. I understand the attempt to show a consensus between the parties on the Euromono street. The only thing that saves you, however, is that when the JRC was put to plenary for this directive and its incorporation, obviously, you were missing. That's all it saves you. Otherwise you would have understood very easily that not only are we going to play this consensus, but it was clear, I think, from the arguments of the Communist Party of Greece, that we are firmly opposed to the incorporation of this directive. We have told their reasons, I do not have time to refer to the same things again. The second thing I would like to say is this: Minister, it was a really negative impression that you have spent a lot of time from your speech on the amendments, and you referred to almost all the amendments, you did not say a word about the amendments tabled by the Members of the Communist Party of Greece. I understand your silence as a rejection, but it would be important to say one reason why you reject this amendment of the Communist Party of Greece. It is about special treatment, it is about teachers, the permanent teachers, whom you say, you are transferring them to special treatment, teachers without the special qualifications necessary in this case. And that's not all that's necessary. These children want to be permanent in their teacher. Not only do you not guarantee it, but you are sending people who have not taught the subject themselves. We are asking for one thing in our amendment. Apart from the fact that a big issue is how the teachers get out of hand, because if you remove the teacher in charge in the whole day, if you unite the schools or departments, they might even be able to spare you, but you won't take them any minute. So we say, with the amendment, that this very paragraph (c) of this article should be abolished so that they can go to special education, only teachers who are trained for this work. For a number of amendments, I will say two three things. First of all, I am going to talk about Amendment No 973, which relates to the determination of the exceptional contribution to foreign airlines. No more words, in our view, here you show your real face. In practice, what are you doing? Let us not get into trouble with numbers, numbers of articles, laws, etc., as to what is being abolished, what is going on in its place. On the basis of the legislation that is currently in existence and on the basis of what you are proposing, the contribution of airlines is falling by 60% or more. Three times down, I mean. And that's not just for the moment. It also applies to those who have appealed to the courts and have not yet been tried. Why am I saying you're showing your real face? Because at the same time you are getting from the people, you are making discounts - with or without introductory terms - in the various business groups. For the amendment concerning the camp of Paul Mela, we agree and vote on it. I wanted to say, however, from this Step forward: we particularly want to address the workers and the people of Western Thessaloniki and ask them to continue the struggle to claim sufficient and full funding, exclusively from state resources, to create a green and recreational park. Why? Because both the Prime Minister and the Mayor of Paul Melala, in their statements, left private investors open to their funding, with what this may mean for the remuneration of the services offered. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be back in a minute. For the Municipality of Laureate and Saronicos, which has spoken so much, we will vote'residents'. It was heard by others. I do not know what they will do to the vote, but in any case the problem is not solved. What are you doing? You are giving a simple extension to uncertainty. That's what you're doing. And keep the world in a hostage. The same is true of loans in Swiss francs. I would like to remind you here: Two years you have said that it is your concern and you will find a solution. Two years you were unable to give a solution. Let me remind you that our party has tabled a proposal for a law on'red' loans, which provided for a number of measures, including the haircut of loans. But you didn't accept her. Finally, I shall refer to airports as well, so that we can close down. First, why are there fees? We are vertically opposed to their existence and especially to the privatised now 14 airports. In any case, however, you say it yourself in the explanatory statement, which will not be damaged, is the airport company. And what are you doing? You are reducing some, someone is in this direction, but to balance the chasoura, you have to pay this special end to children not from five years old, as they are now, but from two years old. Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u269	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Manda, did you ask for the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u270	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u271	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u272	Mr. Constantinople, we're closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u273	Just before Mr. Mada, I'd like the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u274	As soon as we close the procedure, there is too much of it in the Rules of Procedure. So I will give you the floor for two minutes by tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u275	I just want to talk about two issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u276	I'm afraid it's not two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u277	Mr President, I think it is important, firstly, to settle foreign currency loans, for which Mr Karras has tabled an amendment and, above all, to deal with loans with a Swiss franc clause. The loans granted between 2006 and 2009 were EUR 7 billion and have now reached EUR 9 billion. The Democratic Reconciliation has sent the Ministry its proposal for these loans - I think we fully agree with Mr Carras - and I believe that the Minister had to make it acceptable if he wanted to resolve a issue that was not caused by the responsibility of borrowers. A second matter. I'm glad to see the State Secretary in charge here. I have heard Mr Marda talking about the country's so-called 'casing'. Look. Here's a thing. You're not talking about it in the government, but it's your business. The current President of the Committee on Games was a member of the Committee on Games, which had passed a strict regulation. He came and changed him. Do you think there's a problem or not? He went to court and defended him. I shall conclude, Mr President. I had put a few days ago in the Peloponnese Region an issue concerning the OP for the Peloponnese and urban regenerations - I would like you, Mr Manda, to hear it, as a Parliamentary representative of SYRIZA - and I said that the region did not have a competitive procedure for urban regeneration so that all municipalities would put forward proposals. I was then misled by the master of the district and there was an exchange of communications. Today, what's going on? Mr. Haritsis approved the EUR 47 million urban renewal programme for two cities that he also deserves. The first was Kalamata, to which she was a candidate. Mr. Mada, please listen to this. Today, Mr Haritsis, after that, brings a provision - which you will vote on, and I would like the SYRIZA Members of the other Peloponnese prefectures to say whether they vote for it and what it says? While, first, there was a suggestion by the district minister and a decision by the Minister for Urban Regeneration, Mr Haritsis comes in so that he does not take the burden of responsibility for the 17 million - which, in our view, he has agreed - and says: the decision, to which intermediate body would be given, to either the Minister or the district manager. Just three days ago, several Members and I, as a Member of the Democratic Independence, raised this issue by calling for uniform rules so that all the cities in the region can enter this refreshment programme. And today comes Mr. Haritsis, who was a candidate in Kalamata - and Kalamata also needs a part of the 17 million-dollars - and gives the regional leaders the opportunity, just five days later, to sign. What's the rush, Mr. Manda? What's the rush?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u278	Mr. Colleague, it's understood, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u279	Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u280	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u281	Mr. Amyras, I have said three times so far that we are closing the sitting. In the end, no one will believe us. You have the floor for just one minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u282	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to have a reply in particular from Mr Manda and tell me how it is now: The amendment you have tabled, the millennium, is a Britannica, as I say, because it has five different articles that involve fifteen ministries. Article 1, therefore, says that from now on with the Spiritzi amendment, the government of SYRIZA - ANEL, on the Athens-Kalamata road, the manufacturer of which is the contractor managing the project, is Mr Bobola's AKOOR, J&P AVAX and INTRACOM. if the road doesn't have many cars and manufacturers go in, these companies, the Greek public will have to pay the missing money so that the contractors don't get in. What happened, Mr. Mada? You, your party, had accused and denounced this provision as charismatic because it was provided for in the concession agreement. So before you became a government, you said "create the streets to win every Bobola". That's what you said. And not only are you making the streets through Mr Bobola or anyone - who I don't care about who he is - but when they lose money, then the Greek State and all the taxpayers will be tickled at Mr Bobola, Mr Manda. Tell me now, was it a charismatic arrangement or not? And if it is a charismatic and unacceptable provision, why are you bringing an amendment to activate it and not bringing an amendment to abolish it? Let's see in here eventually who's the one with the privileged relationships with the complexion. He dared and said Mr.Janakopoulos, the Government spokesman, that Potami has privileged relations with the conflict! This amendment by SYRIZA - ANEL is the answer to Mr Janakopoulos. But here, of course, it is worth remembering what the late Athanasios Canelopoulos had said about the position of the Government representative. What did he say? "But the Government representative is the toilet pan." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u283	A little more careful would be better. Mr. Mandas has the floor. Don't start answering all the matter because we're lost. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u284	I'm not gonna answer any of this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u285	Aren't you going to answer for Bobola?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u286	If you heard my speech, I've already answered it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u287	You can answer us specifically.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u288	Mr. Amyras, he'll say what Mr. Mandas wants to say. Here, Mr. Mada, you have the floor and I ask you to be quick.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u289	I am opposed to what is being wrapped up in the direction of distortion and - I would say - of misery. I'm not talking about that at all. I will speak about what I wanted to say - which is why I asked for the floor - in terms of clarification. I myself, with my timely question to Mr.Gavroglou, had raised the issue of postgraduate special education, which was given mainly by universities in Nicosia, Cyprus, and Italy. I would therefore like to say that in the implementation process - and also because the joint ministerial decision will come into public consultation - we need to look closely at all these postgraduate issues - which have been acquired in this way - as to whether they meet the conditions in the molecules process. That is what I wanted to say to be written in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u290	Thank you, Mr. Mada. Mrs Papanatsiou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u291	Anything for contractors?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u292	Mr. Mada, don't answer that. Mr. Amyras, that's what Mr. Mandas said. Please. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u293	You know, Mr. Amyras, when are the conventions signed and when do all this happen? And what are we here to do? The fact that we are delivering roads at least on Greek territory, which no one else has delivered in such short space, that you should at least recognize us. In any case, I do not want to talk about these. Mr Vardalis, first of all apologies for not answering whether or not I accept the amendment. I asked the Minister of Education whether he would accept it and said no. So in this case I cannot accept it. And I would like to make a clarification on a point made by Mr Fortsakis in relation to Amendment No 988. Please indicate the categories of debtors identified by decisions of the Governor of the Independent Public Revenue Authority. This is deleted by the legislative practice that we have brought together the entire 13 paragraph and comes 13A ‘by decision of the Minister of Finance the categories of the persons liable for the debts referred to in paragraph 8’. And the technical piece remains with the commander of the ADP. Just as you've spotted it, so we've spotted it along the way for it, and we've brought Legislative.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u294	So you're taking responsibility from the Secretary-General?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u295	No, we don't remove. Just what Mr Fortsakis said, that is what we have identified when we have seen today, namely that what accusations it is about the legislator, it is a matter of the Minister, it is not a matter of the commander, and the fact that the technical part remains with the commander as is the contract and the status that he holds as commander of the independent authority.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u296	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned at the outset, on the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Integration into national legislation of Directive 2014/92/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on the comparability of fees linked to payment accounts, the change of a payment account and access to payment accounts with basic features and other provisions’. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u297	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u298	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u299	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u300	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u301	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u302	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u303	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u304	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u305	Therefore, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Integration into national legislation of Directive 2014/92/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on the comparability of fees linked to payment accounts, the change of a payment account and access to payment accounts with basic characteristics and other provisions’ was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the motion for a resolution. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u306	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u307	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u308	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u309	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u310	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u311	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u312	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u313	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u314	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u315	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u316	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u317	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u318	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u319	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u320	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u321	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u322	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u323	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u324	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u325	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u326	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u327	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u328	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u329	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u330	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u331	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u332	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u333	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u334	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u335	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u336	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u337	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u338	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u339	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u340	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u341	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u342	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u343	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u344	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u345	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u346	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u347	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u348	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u349	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u350	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u351	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u352	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u353	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u354	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u355	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u356	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u357	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u358	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u359	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u360	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u361	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u362	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u363	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u364	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u365	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u366	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u367	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u368	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u369	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u370	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u371	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u372	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u373	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u374	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u375	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u376	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u377	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u378	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u379	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u380	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u381	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u382	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u383	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u384	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u385	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u386	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u387	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u388	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u389	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u390	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u391	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u392	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u393	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u394	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u395	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u396	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u397	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u398	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u399	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u400	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u401	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u402	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u403	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u404	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u405	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u406	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u407	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u408	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u409	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u410	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u411	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u412	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u413	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u414	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u415	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u416	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u417	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u418	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u419	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u420	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u421	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u422	Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u423	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u424	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u425	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u426	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u427	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u428	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u429	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u430	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u431	Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u432	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u433	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u434	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u435	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u436	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u437	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u438	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u439	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u440	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u441	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u442	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u443	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u444	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u445	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u446	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u447	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u448	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u449	Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u450	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u451	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u452	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u453	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u454	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u455	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u456	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u457	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u458	Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u459	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u460	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u461	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u462	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u463	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u464	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u465	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u466	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u467	Article 18 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u468	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u469	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u470	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u471	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u472	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u473	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u474	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u475	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u476	Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 20 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u477	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u478	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u479	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u480	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u481	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u482	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u483	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u484	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u485	Article 20 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 21 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u486	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u487	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u488	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u489	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u490	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u491	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u492	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u493	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u494	Article 21 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 22 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u495	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u496	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u497	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u498	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u499	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u500	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u501	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u502	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u503	Article 22 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 23 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u504	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u505	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u506	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u507	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u508	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u509	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u510	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u511	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u512	Article 23 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 24 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u513	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u514	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u515	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u516	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u517	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u518	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u519	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u520	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u521	Article 24 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 25 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u522	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u523	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u524	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u525	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u526	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u527	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u528	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u529	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u530	Article 25 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 26 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u531	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u532	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u533	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u534	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u535	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u536	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u537	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u538	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u539	Article 26 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 27 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u540	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u541	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u542	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u543	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u544	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u545	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u546	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u547	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u548	Article 27 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 28 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u549	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u550	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u551	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u552	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u553	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u554	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u555	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u556	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u557	Article 28 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 29 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u558	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u559	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u560	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u561	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u562	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u563	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u564	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u565	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u566	Article 29 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 30 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u567	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u568	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u569	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u570	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u571	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u572	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u573	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u574	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u575	Article 30 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 31 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u576	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u577	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u578	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u579	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u580	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u581	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u582	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u583	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u584	Article 31 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 32 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u585	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u586	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u587	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u588	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u589	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u590	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u591	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u592	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u593	Article 32 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 33 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u594	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u595	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u596	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u597	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u598	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u599	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u600	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u601	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u602	Article 33 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 34 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u603	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u604	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u605	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u606	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u607	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u608	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u609	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u610	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u611	Article 34 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 35 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u612	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u613	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u614	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u615	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u616	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u617	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u618	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u619	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u620	Article 35 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 36 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u621	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u622	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u623	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u624	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u625	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u626	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u627	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u628	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u629	Article 36 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 37 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u630	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u631	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u632	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u633	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u634	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u635	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u636	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u637	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u638	Article 37 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 38 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u639	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u640	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u641	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u642	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u643	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u644	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u645	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u646	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u647	Article 38 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 39 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u648	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u649	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u650	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u651	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u652	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u653	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u654	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u655	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u656	Article 39 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 40 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u657	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u658	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u659	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u660	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u661	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u662	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u663	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u664	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u665	Article 40 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 41 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u666	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u667	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u668	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u669	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u670	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u671	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u672	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u673	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u674	Article 41 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 42 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u675	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u676	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u677	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u678	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u679	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u680	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u681	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u682	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u683	Article 42 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 43 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u684	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u685	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u686	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u687	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u688	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u689	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u690	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u691	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u692	Article 43 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 44 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u693	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u694	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u695	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u696	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u697	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u698	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u699	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u700	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u701	Article 44 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 45 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u702	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u703	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u704	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u705	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u706	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u707	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u708	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u709	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u710	Article 45 has therefore been accepted as majority. We are entering the vote on the amendments. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 983 and a special number 145, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u711	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u712	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u713	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u714	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u715	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u716	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u717	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u718	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u719	The amendment, as amended by the Minister, was therefore approved by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted by a general number of 988 and a special number of 146, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u720	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u721	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u722	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u723	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u724	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u725	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u726	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u727	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u728	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 988 and a specialist of 146 was accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote on the amendment with a general number of 989 and a specialist of 147.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u729	Mr President, I would like to make it clear that this amendment has three articles. We in the first article disagree. In the other two we say 'the present'. Our 'no' to this amendment has this interpretation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u730	Good. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 989 and a special number 147, as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u731	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u732	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u733	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u734	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u735	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u736	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u737	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u738	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u739	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 989 and a special 147 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same articles. Does the House accept the amendment with a general number of 994 and a special number of 152 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u740	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u741	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u742	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u743	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u744	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u745	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u746	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u747	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u748	Therefore, the amendment with a general number 994 and a special 152 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment with a general number of 997 and a special number of 155, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u749	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u750	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u751	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u752	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u753	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u754	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u755	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u756	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u757	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 997 and a special 155 was accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment with a general number of 998 and a specialist of 156 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u758	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u759	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u760	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u761	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u762	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u763	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u764	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u765	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u766	The amendment with a general number 998 and a special 156 was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment with a general number of 999 and a specialist of 157 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u767	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u768	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u769	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u770	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u771	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u772	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u773	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u774	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u775	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 999 and a special 157 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote on the amendment with a general number of 1000 and a special number of 158.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u776	Mr President, with regard to the amendment of a general number of 1000 and a special number of 158 to Articles 1 and 3, if we had the opportunity, we would have voted 'yes' in Articles 2, 4 and 5 'the present'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u777	We must give a vote on the general question. Objections and clarifications shall be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u778	I told you that our general vote was 'yes'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u779	Mr President, we in the amendment are voting'representations' and clarify: Article 1 'no', Article 2 'yes', Article 3 'no' and Article 5 'no'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u780	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number of 1000 and a special number of 158 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u781	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u782	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u783	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u784	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u785	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u786	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u787	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u788	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u789	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1000 and a special 158 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same articles. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 991 and a special number 149 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u790	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u791	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u792	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u793	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u794	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u795	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u796	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u797	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u798	The amendment, by a general number 991 and a special 149, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number of 1001 and a special number of 159 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u799	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u800	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u801	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u802	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u803	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u804	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u805	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u806	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u807	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1001 and a special 159 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u808	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u809	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u810	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u811	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u812	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u813	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u814	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u815	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u816	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Therefore, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Integration into national legislation of Directive 2014/92/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on the comparability of fees linked to payment accounts, the change of a payment account and access to payment accounts with basic features and other provisions’ was accepted in principle and on the articles. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now voting on the bill and on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u817	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u818	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u819	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u820	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u821	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u822	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u823	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u824	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u825	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Integration into national legislation of Directive 2014/92/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on the comparability of fees linked to payment accounts, the change of a payment account and access to payment accounts with basic features and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in principle, of articles and all of the following:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u826	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u827	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. The minutes of the sittings of Tuesday 7 February 2017, Thursday 9 February 2017, Friday 10 February 2017, Monday 13 February 2017 and Tuesday 14 February have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u828	The minutes of Tuesday 7 February 2017, Thursday 9 February 2017, Friday 10 February 2017, Monday 13 February 2017 and Tuesday 14 February were validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-29-S1-commons.u829	With the agreement of the House at 17.24 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday 30 March 2017 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work (a) parliamentary scrutiny: topical and urgent debate; and (b) legislative work: only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: "Structuring the Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Mongolia, of the other part", according to the agenda distributed.
