ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers of Finance, Home Affairs, Economic and Development, Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, National Defence, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Foreign Affairs, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Health, Administrative Reconstruction, Culture and Sport, Environment and Energy, Infrastructure and Transport, Migration Policy, Maritime and Immigration Policy, Rural Development and Food and Tourism, the Deputy Ministers of Home, Economy and Development, National Defence, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Economic Affairs and Human Rights, Transparency and Human Health, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Employment, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Education, Research and Religious Religious Affairs, Economic and Financial Assistance and Religion have made available to the House a draft of 135-2017 financial provisions and amending the Financial Instruments for Implementation of the Financial Instruments for Implementation of the Financial Reform and Development of the Financial Instruments of the Financial Reform of the Greek Government and Financial Reform. The above draft law has been classified by the Government as urgent. I also have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committees on Economic Affairs, Social Affairs, Public Administration, Public Order and Justice and Trade present their report to the draft Law of the Ministry of Finance "Public Pension provisions and modification of the provisions of Law No.4387/2016, measures implementing the budget objectives and reforms, social support measures and labour regulations, the medium-term framework of the Financial Strategy 2018-2021 and other provisions". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Retirement provisions of the Ministry of Finance and amending the provisions of Law4387/2016, measures implementing the budgetary objectives and reforms, social support measures and labour regulations, the medium-term framework of the Financial Strategy 2018-2021 and other provisions’. The above draft law was characterised by the Government as urgent and the Co-presidential Committees accepted by a majority the status of urgency in accordance with Rule 110 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 16 May 2017 to discuss the draft law at two meetings, one in principle, on articles and the other in the amendment. Before giving the address to President Kaklamani, I would ask you very much to listen, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, following a detailed debate which any of us may also come to the Minutes in order to be informed, and following my relevant report and following the opposition from the People's Association Parliamentary Representative - Golden Dawn, the Conference of Presidents with unanimity - of course with objections from the Representative of the People's League - Golden Dawn, Mr Christos Papa - decided to propose in plenary, pursuant to Rule 81(1), (2) and (3) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the exclusion of Members from the participation of Members - members of the Golden Dawn Parliament from the procedure and the debate in Parliament on the draft budget ‘Public pension provisions and amending the provisions of Law No.4387/2016, measures for the implementation of the budgetary objectives and reforms, social support measures and working arrangements, the medium-term framework of the budgetary strategy for 2018-2021 and other provisions’. The Members of the Golden Dawn shall, in accordance with paragraph 5 of that Article, be entitled to participate in any roll-call votes with which the relevant procedure will be closed. It has been quite clear from the debate which took place yesterday and the day before yesterday, 15 and 16 May, and from the debate in the Conference of Presidents yesterday 16 May that both the decision of the committees, on the basis of which the Members of the Golden Dawn did not attend the meetings, and the decision proposed today to the plenary on the whole of the Members of the Golden Dawn, is documented by the full coverage given after the end of all the sad and undemocratic acts by the Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn on the part of the entire group. Unfortunately, such an unprecedented event is not individual with the responsibility of Members of the Golden Dawn, and indeed within Parliament's Chamber, but is added to a series of events in the last five years that, beyond undemocratic behaviour, refer to threats or practices of violence. Please, and because we must not delay our work on the bill, I urge the House to agree on the proposal by raising the hand. I would ask those who accept the proposal to raise their hand. [[All MPs raise their hand]] We have all voted in favour of the proposal. So this House unanimously welcomes the decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I continue from the point of view that the President-in-Office of the Council has stopped today's procedure. With regard to the procedure, therefore, in accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents of 16 May 2017, it is proposed that the debate be organised better, in accordance with Rule 65(5) of the Rules of Procedure, following the speech by the rapporteurs and special speakers to speak to Members from a single list of speakers, which will consist of four full circles of speakers in proportion to the parliamentary power of the parties. Each cycle will include five colleagues from SYRIZA, three colleagues from New Democracy and one speaker from the other parties and an independent MP. Finally, we will follow the speeches of Members who will be enrolled by the end of the speech by the second rapporteur on the electronic system in their order of registration. The Conference of Presidents also decided at its meeting of 4 May 2017: First, Members should remain in their seats during the voting and secondly, that the order of reading the nominal list should not be changed, except in exceptional cases which should be mentioned in advance and justified to the Bureau of Parliament. Requests submitted during the vote will not be accepted. I would like to inform you, before I ask you for your approval on the procedure - not for something else - that by making a rough calculation, the four cycles, the rapporteurs and the speakers, the Parliamentary representatives and an estimate of four to five ministers today - because the Conference of Presidents has asked the Government to share in two, the half to speak today and not unblock tomorrow at the last minute - if we are disciplined and respected, around 22.00 to 23.00 in the evening this whole group of speakers will be closed and will be left until 1.00 in the evening because we have decided tonight to go by 1.00 at midnight. Tomorrow the debate will start 10 a.m. until 22.00 p.m. at the end of the evening with the Prime Minister's closure, as always, so that the vote will be held around midnight. This means that if what I said to you tomorrow, all day long, until the Heads start speaking - I suppose from 15.00 to 16.00 in the afternoon -, the time will be at the disposal of colleagues who will register electronically in the speech of the first two rapporteurs. In other words, apart from the circles where the names of colleagues have been given by their parties, colleagues will be registered and I think that if not all of them, the vast majority will have time to speak. So, as far as the procedure is concerned, do I have your agreement, like yesterday at the Conference?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much. Is there any other matter before we get to the speakers?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u5	Here you go, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, we have already submitted...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u7	I was gonna read it. I have them here. I said, with regard to the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u8	We agree on the procedure. In thirty seconds, I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u9	So you are now talking about objections of unconstitutionality.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u10	We have already objected to unconstitutionalism, which we will develop in the debate. I have, however, a proposal to this House, of a procedural nature, to discuss unconstitutionalism, which reads as follows.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u11	The unconstitutionality.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u12	On the subject of the debate, on the timing of its debate. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, such objections may be raised up to the beginning of the debate. And, of course, we should have the debate properly. We therefore propose, in order to enter into the debate on the bill, that we listen to the rapporteurs in a first cycle and then discuss the objections of unconstitutionality. That is our view. We say so that we do not interrupt, to introduce into the essential issues of the bill, which are involved in unconstitutionalism.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u13	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u14	Allow me, colleagues. Secondly, and to give time to study further the report of the Scientific Committee, which has also raised and raised issues of unconstitutionality. I therefore think that this is how we save time for a more efficient economy in the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u15	You're clear. First of all, I have to say that an objection to unconstitutionalism has been tabled beyond Mr Vorides on behalf of the New Democracy, Mr Loverdos on behalf of the Democratic Alliance and Mr Carras on behalf of the Independents. I mention it to be written in the Minutes. Mr. Loverdos has a different view, if I understand, of Mr. Vorides's. Mr. Loverdo, tell me your opinion for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Vorides has serious arguments. But there is one counter-project that the practice has given, Mr President, and I would like to remind you of that. At the initiative of Mr Venizelos, if I remember well, and Mr Kaklamanis's consent that he was presided over at that time, in another case that we wanted time to consider something about insurance again and the Minister was Mr Katrugalos, if I remember well, we had reservations about the objection later. We've led to a frenzy failure. The variation in the debate in the House did not want most Members to be here. The debate has declined, lost its meaning and the Rules of Parliament have been violated by the groups with the agreement of all of us, without that being profitable. Please, Mr President, apply the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u17	The Rules do not say what you say, Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u18	He says anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u19	The Rules of Procedure say that the debate is about to begin. Because today it is not at the outset apart from the articles, but it is a single debate, it is what you have said. I would like to suggest an interim solution, because both proposals have arguments. To listen to the first two rapporteurs, and immediately afterwards, in order to observe the Rules of Procedure, not all the speakers said by Mr Vorides...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u20	The first three.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u21	Let the three first ones talk, yeah. And right after that, because I've timed with five minutes, an hour will be talking about unconstitutionality. Mr Voridis, do you agree with this interim proposal? Actually, it's yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u22	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u23	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u24	Mr President, let me just say that we will play the courgettes, why not two and not three? They'll all talk and get it over with. That's better. So why are the three first ones going to cut off the conversation after that? What's the logic here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u25	Is the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative in favour of what proposal? Because I'm necessarily going to the parliamentary procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u26	Mr President, we agree that the debate should take place after the rapporteurs all.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u27	Good. Then we stop here. SYRIZA is in favour of New Democracy and the Communist Party of Greece. We don't have to vote. The proposal by Mr Voridis is prejudicial, supported by at least two more parties. So we are starting the debate with the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Christos Karagiannides. Mr. Karayannides, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to start with a glimpse, because we will have two days of discussion and an intense controversy. But after yesterday's events with the "alternates" and because this House has an interdisciplinary role, it is important to keep such vulgar and sexist concepts from the outside. In view of a bill that will come in a way that will speak of legal recognition of the gender identity, it is important to keep a level that is at least culturally characterised. Well, I'm on my way. Yesterday the new Republic's rapporteur spoke to us about comments made by the institutions...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u29	Easy, gentlemen, please. Respect the rapporteur. Then the others will complain when they take the floor. Here you go, Mr. Karayannides.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u30	Thank you. It was said by the rapporteur of the New Democracy, but also by other opposition parties, about the unprecedented comments made by institutions in this committee. The truth is, looking to find out what had been said in previous years by a PASOK-New Democracy government... Mr President, I cannot speak. I can't hear my voice.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, excuse me! Did you realize we shouldn't talk? He'll be up after Mr. Stavros. Do you want the same thing to happen from the side of SYRIZA? Calm down, please! Whoever doesn't want out! Here you go, Mr. Karayannides.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u32	The truth, then, is that I have had trouble finding bodies that spoke to committees about the PASOK-New Democracy conflict bills, because most of them came as an emergency and never discussed by the institutions. I found, however, in the 2013 Emergency Implementation Measures, specific comments: GSEE, OLEME, OLETE, ADEDY, Police Officers, POSSY. So listen to what was said at the time - because you say about the unprecedented comments you heard for the first time yesterday - : ‘The draft submitted to the vote shall run exclusively without social, development and investment equivalents to economic and budgetary adjustment measures. The Greek economy remains locked in the deadlock of the deep and protracted recession." ‘Argenton. Lightning in hunger." "All the provisions contained in the bill and in general all the provisions and laws that have been passed in recent years have led the country to full degradation of industrial relations. All these measures have led to a productive precipitation’. The GFCM in 2013. I would like you to listen carefully to this: 'Now the average debt to the EUPM is EUR 10 000. 70% of those insured, that is to say 575 000 colleagues, are speaking of by the President of the GSE - 'they do not pay insurance contributions and have a debt to the Fund. Let's go pay for this? Can we? Oh, no. Let's go to close." These in 2013, to know what this is all about. Police: “It is the second legislative intervention made by the government within four months and concerns our insurance funds. I fear that this second one will also give the charismatic shot." Because you heard unprecedented things yesterday, while in 2013 you heard things that were everyday. Obviously it was everyday because we spent three years of hard budgetary adjustment. So let's know and keep the same. When the institutions come and criticize and are right in a number of things, they have done so in the past. The institutions did not show up yesterday and made this harsh criticism. The institutions have been criticising for seven years, as they have to. And she was tough and in 2012 and in 2013 and today. So there's no separation. So how did we get here? Why are we in a deal? Because we're in commission. Why is there this difficulty for the country's economy to cope with specific needs? I'll say it for a pluralist time: 'Cause in 2010 you dived the country. So you, in your sense, had to call the IMF, as the PASOK did, and go into a range of concrete adjustments and specific neoliberal directions. Because the IMF, as you know, is not a member of any communist party. We had to listen and adapt to what they submitted to us and tell us it had to be done. Yes or no? The country's finances collapsed in 2010? Yes or no? Will you answer that question? Is it your fault or isn't it? Forty years when you ruled the place did you eat money in this country? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u33	Easy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u34	So you have to answer: country's finances collapsed in 2010? Yes or no? We've been in this memorial storm for the last seven years. How can we get out of this monumental storm? We say that this agreement puts an end to it. In August 2018 we come out of the committee and can go to the markets and borrow, as was the case until 2009, from the money markets. We have lost this over the last seven years, and we should have been in a budgetary adjustment that others have submitted to us. Let me remind you that in July 2015 the agreement was passed by 251 votes in favour and 32 against. I mean, you voted for it, too. This agreement states: ‘The euro area Member States requesting a financial contribution from the ESM may address such a request to the IMF. This is a prerequisite for the Eurogroup to agree on the new ESM programme. Therefore, Greece will request the continuation of IMF support in March 2016.’ You have agreed and voted in favour of it too. What does that mean? In March 2016 the IMF should give an answer. Did he give it to her? He didn't give her the answer. He said we'll talk after the second evaluation. Hence the new measures that you say were not there before and appeared as a miracle now. The IMF has been saying that, in order to participate in the programme, specific restructurings need to be made. These are the negative measures we have today to vote on. Don't you agree to that? Say it didn't happen that way. But the data we have is the reality. So the IMF to enter into this agreement says it wants specific restructuring, a neoliberal character, I say again. It is their view, their ideological political identity and yours in many. We must therefore say that these measures have come because the IMF is involved. And we say there in the answer what will happen if the IMF does not come in: the measures will not apply to you, of course, because most of them you agree. So let's say that the IMF does not participate. We don't have this deal. The ball is now in the field of institutions and the IMF for the continuation of the program until 2018 and the continuation of any program from 2018 onwards. It's a matter of talking from there. There, however, Greece has nothing to do with it. Greece cannot catch either Christine Lagard or Shoeble and tell them "Agreement to the debt". Because, as you should know - and you know it, but you don't want to say it - debt is the biggest story in this effort. While you said that so far no one is discussing it, it is already predicted by the performance of Greek bonds that we are moving towards a debt agreement that will make a sustainable economy. Any surpluses we achieve, whatever targets we set, if the debt does not come to a sustainable logic, we cannot achieve anything. These answers we expect - in the last two days we have not taken them - and we say this: Are you asking for a memorandum and funding? Because this is where this thing goes down. I understand that there must be a communication use of words. "Fourth Memorandum"? Fourth Memorandum. Every time your days were evaluated, there were new measures. If we count the memos like that, now we should be on the tenth Seventeenth! So that also has to have a rationale. However, there can be no funding with these measures, because we believe that in 2018 we will go out on the markets, because the economy is now in calm waters and because there is a orientation that will bring us to the logic of investment and to the logic that the Greek Government, with a much lower comitology, will decide much more things it can do. Isn't Portugal, Ireland, Cyprus in comitology today? Obviously, they are, but they're not who we are because they've come out of their programs. Are we forgetting Maastricht? Even if we were not in comitology, the 'alpha' or the 'beet', the hard or the soft, should we not achieve 3% surpluses? If we fell below 3% of the surpluses, shouldn't we be taking measures? Maastricht, do you remember it whenever it's of interest to you? Have we signed as a country in favour of Maastricht? I personally disagreed, to tell you, but this has absolutely nothing to do with it. So, you signed this? That we had to get into the Eurozone, so he had certain conditions? So that's what we have to follow? We are obliged - I also ask the rapporteur to answer when he comes to talk - when we get out of the programmes - why are these obligations suspended now - to have 3% surpluses? Wouldn't we take measures? So let's not say things that don't apply. Let me give you some examples again. The agencies came in yesterday and a lot of things were heard. No one doubts that the measures we take are negative, but they also have a positive effect. To say, however, what is actually happening. A employee with a child with an income of 14000 in 2017, i.e. EUR 916, with tax measures in 2020, will have a reduction of EUR 22. A employee with 24000 income in 2017 will have a monthly salary of EUR 1412, while from 2020 he will have 1421. Plus 8 euros. A employee with 34000 in 2017 will have a monthly income of EUR 1849, while 2020 will be EUR 1892. Increase of 52 euros. So it's not a negative story. No one says it's negative for a lot of people, but it's not negative for everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u35	You're not shy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u36	And I get to the free professionals. There's a difference.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u37	Easy, easy. Mr. Fotella, leave the well with Mr. Loverdos. Don't worry about him. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u38	I want you to hear that about freelance professionals, because you spoke yesterday about great insurance increases. Before Mr Katrugalou's insurance law, the blocked employee - because he was regarded as a freelance professional at that time, and now he is considered an employee - on 12000 euros in your own days he gave 4500 euros contributions. After the vote of the Katorugalou law, it gives 1200 euros. Where exactly do you understand the rises? How exactly do you mean, then, that the contributions were increased? After that, then, the EUR 433 left for him a month now will take 770. How exactly do you understand the growths of freelance professionals? Let me tell you about the hired freelance professional without children before the Katorugalou law. Free professionals with two children with an income of 12,000 euros gave 4,500 euros before the Katorugalos Law and after him gave 2830. Do you realize there's been a reduction? On this reduction in 2019 there will be an increase, because there has been a request by the institutions not to measure insurance contributions for the following year in order to remove them. Approximately 60% -70% have been reduced. And you're talking about great insurance? Can you tell me how a free professional lived on your own days with 4500 euros contributions and 12,000 annual income? To talk about real data at last. And we're going to what many of you are mocking it up and saying it on an esteeming term, 'catches'. Of course, many of you, when you went to colleges and at noon, had lunch, you said it, didn't say "city" what the college gave you, but this is another case. So we say we cover five hundred thousand children. Do you consider it negligible for children to be able to have meals until high school? Do you consider it negligible that there is an attempt to rebuild a social state that in your day was simply a clientele? Do you consider it self-evident that you were giving allowances for every election stay to specific professional social groups to keep them in your hand and that this whole thing now goes to social solidarity income? Two billion will manage the social income of solidarity and the Ministry of Labour. How much money did you give? Would you like to see the European Union list of twenty-eight? Last we were under Bulgaria. That was the return of the money you've given. Are we gonna talk about this? You won't apply. Let's not talk again to the committees. I think that every single citizen in his sense, without knowing and appalling financially, understands that positive measures will apply. It is your attempt, of course, not to apply any of the positive measures because it is not worthy, political and ideological in your own code. In your sense, it is to take measures that have specific social directions and favour certain people. Hence, they have been thrown into the margin of the last five memorandum years that you have been in the government two thirds of Greek society and I close with it. Our direction is for these two thirds of Greek society to pass on as far as possible over the net of dignity and the economy and society, most importantly, can live decently in the coming years, which was not in your own days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u39	The new Republic's rapporteur, Christos Stakouras, is called at Step. Here you go, Mr Stakoura, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u40	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the last two and a half years, the SYRIZA and ANEL Government have moved to a foggy landscape that has shaped itself with its constant regressions between ideology and cynicism and the unregulated cemeteries of lies and self-disputes. The result? It has wasted time, valuable time, so-called heroic negotiations, and fundamentally for party arrangements and fancy garnishes in serving the measures to citizens, delays that have made the account more effective for households and businesses. The government, instead of taking over at the beginning of 2015, to use the door open from the crisis that had already taken place, was enough to play self-sufficient with the rotating door, using two languages, both internal and external. And because some have questioned where we were in 2014, I am presenting in the minutes the last two interviews by Mr Reggling, the head of the European support mechanism from which we are asking for money, as the rapporteur said, which confirms where we were in 2014 and what was subsequently done. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thus, the land that has since been drawn to an end has sunk. The economy has returned and remains in recession, wealth has disappeared, new measures have been imposed, the competitiveness of the economy has deteriorated, the available income of all citizens has decreased, their daily lives have been burdened, as I have said in the committee and I repeat. The government, based on all quantitative and qualitative indicators, received the economy on the first floor, threw it in the basement and today anchored it after two and a half years to the ground floor. He is a member of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors And as yesterday's data on the recession showed, it has not succeeded. He is trying to achieve something essential for the debt, based on the 2012 decisions, after he has borne his viability and has not succeeded. And because the SYRIZA rapporteur said that for the first time something becomes essential to the debt, you will allow me to invite you to read the bill. Page 233: In recent years the composition and structure of debt have improved. The average residual physical duration has been extended over time and the costs of its service have been significantly reduced. I put it in the Minutes to understand what has happened since 2012, and you say it and sign it that you will vote on it. So stop the story about the past. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] He's trying to integrate the country into the quantitative relaxation program, in which he should have been in since March 2015 and has not succeeded. He's trying to get the country out on the international markets. Mr rapporteur, you have forgotten that, which has happened in 2014 and has not succeeded. She is trying to remove the capital restrictions she has caused and has not done so. Two and a half years in which the country was charged two unnecessarily memorable memorials, the citizens are poor, the economy is on its knees. This is the cost of unreliableness, opportunism, government ideas, costs reflected in the draft law under discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law is the fourth memorandum. It shall include measures to be taken after the expiry of the third Memorandum. Measures which were not available on any page in the third memorandum. So, from the "scasing" of the memorandum, we spent two and a half years in the rule of SYRIZA and ANEL and from the 12 billion here of Mr. Tsipras in Thessaloniki, in 14.2 billion euros new austerity measures. The heaviest, most socially unjust Memorial Account, an inappropriate account that bears only the seal of Mr. Tsipras's government. Ladies and gentlemen, let us look at the basic features of the fourth memorandum. The rapporteur said: 'We are putting an end to this today'. Mr Tsipras said a year ago after the completion of the first evaluation, 'We put an end to these sacrifices, they are the last'. I put this in the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice.]] Recently, he and the ministers in the bi-Irish tones talked about the end of austerity and today, instead of the end of austerity, we have even more austerity. We have new measures. Start from 2018 within the program the third memorandum you say. Measures such as the even greater increase in insurance contributions for freelance professionals and farmers. Measures such as reducing the income tax deduction for medical services. The reduction of the heating allowance, the reduction of social benefits, measures that you know are burdening the poorest, the weakest. But left metrology does not end in 2018. We have new measures, 4.9 billion by 2021. Measures such as the reduction of duty-free allowances, the reduction of pensions, measures that reveal the greatest political deception our country has ever known. Secondly, the fourth Memorandum poorens society as a whole. It eliminates, as both forty free professionals, special wages, low pensioners, workers and farmers confirmed yesterday. It destroys the middle class, carries burdens to the weakest, releases collective redundancies and levels society. The cuts in main and ancillary pensions and the reduction in duty are translated into at least two lost pensions for pensioners and a lost wage for employees. Thirdly, Mr Tsipras - and I will table it in the Minutes - in January 2017, he was 'committed' that he will not legislate measures of EUR 3.6 billion, he will not legislate for after 2018, he will not legislate for a reduction in duty, he will not legislate new pension cuts. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Today four months later, all this and even worse, it legislates them. He didn't keep one red line. From either a new euro or a new euro, we have spent EUR 5 billion on both sides without soul pain. The absolute addiction to the vote on measures. All for power, at all costs, in every way, by every means. Mr Tsakalotos - who is not here today, but you will pass it on to him - last year, before the tax reduction he made, committed - and I put it in the Minutes that he is not prepared to submit to Parliament another bill with an even lower tax rate. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And today, with his suggestion, the tax is being cut down to EUR 5,681, i.e. it is being cut by 35%. And he, despite his commitments, remains in his place. I call on him - to carry it - after he regretted it for the chair, at least not to commit again to the level of tax. Every time he commits, it reduces it. At least stop here, because the next day he's capable of zeroing it. Fourthly, the government, on its own responsibility, delayed the completion of the evaluation. He continued to give theatrical performances of supposedly tough negotiation, but he never did, as the former Finance Minister recently confessed. It went on to reduce public participation in banks with huge amounts - the most basic - permanent cost to Greek taxpayers. It set up the eternal superstate, a body without effective national control, without democratic accountability, giving it continuously public property. It does not go beyond structural changes, because it cannot, nor does it, nor does it want to implement them. Without a strategic plan he progresses with his tactics, seeing and doing. In the meantime, however, it has a huge cost to the country. EUR 29 billion has been depleted, each household has become poorer by EUR 7,000, and at the same time each household has loaded EUR 3,400 of the uncomfortable measures imposed on it by the current government. The complete failure! Fifthly, the government is once again trying to deceive the citizens. The new project that goes up is entitled "anti-measures", countermeasures which constitute a communication fraud and constitute the veil of the very tough package of measures. I would like to explain that if the government believes, for example, as the Minister of Finance said, that the issue of child poverty is important, as we believe it to be, not in the future and under budgetary conditions. It also has, as the first page of the memorandum says, Mr Tsakalotou's ownership of the programme. So let him do it. Moreover, measures and countermeasures are not equivalent to each citizen. For example, citizens with an annual income of up to EUR 22 000, even if all your so-called countermeasures are implemented, will pay new taxes. So do the low-pensioners. The weakest economic strata in any case with this draft law will be damaged. Furthermore, in accordance with Article 15, countermeasures require the adoption and full implementation of measures, the permanent achievement of high primary surpluses and the evaluation of institutions. Three conditions for the countermeasures to be implemented. And they start to apply once the country, after the measures have been taken - it is not Article 15 - that measures are more than 3.5% of GDP over a period of at least three years, but that is something that you have always argued is not being done. You said that primary surpluses of 3.5% are not possible. For example, if the institutions, after the tax reduction, after the pension cut, consider that the country then, and for three years, achieves a primary surplus of 3.5%, you will give zero countermeasures. Zero countermeasures! The primary surplus must reach 5.5% of GDP in order to implement all countermeasures.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u41	Mr Stakoras should not necessarily agree with the government. What can we do? Easy, let's move on. Go on, Mr. Stakoura.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u42	If you disagree, no more Article 15, or no more hiding. The measures, therefore, are certainly. They are the sure 'fack'. The countermeasures will be implemented under conditions, very difficult to achieve. They are the 'cheese', with the aim of getting people's attention from 'faecal'. However, as was seen from yesterday's hearing, society does not "squeeze". On the contrary, the proposal from the New Democracy, the proposal from the President, Mr Mitsotakis, for direct countermeasures due to the overcoming of last year's budgetary objective, as I have explained to the committee, is sincere, reasoned, realistic and documented. The way, time and targeting of the proposal is within the existing framework. We tabled this proposal today in the form of an amendment. We call on the government to accept it. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, the fourth memorandum is the epic of political hypocrisy, social analgesia, unreliability, incompetence, political deception of the SYRIZA and ANEL Government. The New Democracy, with a sense of responsibility, is voting against it. The Greek citizens are concerned, however, with another question. Is there another way beyond sequential memorials? My answer, after reminding me that in 2011 from this step I noted that there is no royal way to social welfare, is that yes, there is. And this national roadmap should strategically plan and move consistently, with effectiveness. Steps of this course must be: The forward implementation of structural changes and destabilisations. The sustainable fiscal equilibrium, by reducing taxes and expenditure, with the inclusion of the missing part of the economy in its clear scope, with realistic budgetary objectives. Strengthening the liquidity in the economy, by making use of European funds, by repaying the public's dues, by progressively normalising the credit expansion. The implementation of active policies to tackle unemployment, creating a strong reintegration net in a modern labour market. The adoption of an integrated strategy for changing the productive model of the economy, aimed at moving towards a competitive and extroverted economy. The modernisation of the structure and functioning of the State, by extending and reliably implementing the assessment throughout its range. The protection of the institutions so that democracy is not reduced. Improving quality and efficiency, limiting state embrace and promoting the internationalisation of education, training, lifelong learning, research and technological development, innovation and entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u43	Is that what you're hanging up with?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u44	Yes, sir, I'm closing. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to break the catastrophic catastrophic spiral, which leads increasingly deeper and deeper to the economic stagnation, to social misery, to the national decline. We need to get into an upward spiral, which leads to the country's full empowerment. The current government for two and a half years has shown that it cannot succeed. It's now pointless to try with terraces. The New Democracy, bound by its principles and historical path, is clearly taking part in the political track and says: Ladies and gentlemen of the government, your presence does not benefit the country, is harming it. The citizens must dominate their decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u45	Slowly - we wish him passively - Mr Koutsoukos, a special speaker from the Democratic Partnership, is called at the Step. You have the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today the majority, by its vote, will ratify an agreement, a fourth memorandum, which delivers the country in terms of defeat on the demands of lenders. What the lenders claimed and did not give it to them by the previous governments, since 2010 when the PASOK began to protect the country from unscrupulous bankruptcy, is now being granted, ladies and gentlemen. What was not given in the third memorandum is given in the fourth. Most importantly, the decision that the majority will make today is binding on the country, through the new medium-term, with budgetary targets that will keep it tied to austerity and entangled in deadlocks. The excessive surpluses of 3.5% by 2021 will result from the accumulation of the old and new measures and cuts, from the measures adopted by the majority with the third memorandum and the measures that it will be voting on today. According to the medium-term, page 179, - I say pages, because Mr Tsakalotos reads other numbers when we criticize him - these are cumulatively EUR 9.2 billion. These measures will constantly pooren the Greek society and become a permanent barbaric in development, they will drown the economy. Already, the over-optimistic target of 2.7% growth in 2017, set by the government with the budget, has degraded to 1.8% over the medium term. And yesterday or yesterday, the National Statistical Office, ELSTAT, announced that the first quarter of 2017 ended with a recession. So the omens are unfavourable. Mr. Tsipras personally will have to answer why from where he would rip the memorials with a law and an article, he in the end brought a third memorandum and instead of the arguments he said, when he tried to convince the government majority to vote on the third memorandum, that we would thus come out of the memorials at the end of 2018, he now reunits the country with his political choices in a fourth memorandum by 2021 and we see it. Mr Tsipras and Mr Tsakalotos, who interprets political views in economic terms as he understands them, should explain why the SYRIZA parliamentary groups - ANEL from the theory of the low surpluses of the third memorandum they signed, 0.5% for 2017, 1.75% for 2018, etc., joined the theory of the high surpluses of 3.5%. What happened to that famous financial air, with which they said they would ensure growth and social policy? Obviously, ladies and gentlemen of the majority you are protesting, this was another false record in order to document the parallel programme of Thessaloniki, which was the record of SYRIZA's election in September 2017. How about you tell the people we're gonna tear the memos and bring one more? Ladies and gentlemen, this agreement, which we do not know all about - only leaks, we know what the bill contains - has cuts in pensions, wage cuts through tax reductions. And, of course, it contains barbaric changes in employment relationships, in auctions, in the market with Sunday holidays that only a mutant left, that is, today's SYRIZA could vote, and of course - I repeat - everything else that hides the notorious supplymentary, the SMOU. More specifically with the measures that the majority will be voting on today, we will legislate, ladies and gentlemen, on cuts of EUR 4.9 billion. They start from tomorrow to the glory of what Mr Tsipras said, that not a single euro! And they repeated it - naively? It is the question - the SYRIZA MPs at all the panels and here in the House until the day before yesterday. But today they will vote. They'll vote for the pension cuts that are 2.5 billion. They will vote for wage cuts of 2 billion through tax reductions and another 400 million from social benefits for our weakest fellow citizens. It's the allowance for the poor kids who go to school for the unprotected children. And it's the heating allowance. These cuts, ladies and gentlemen, concern over 1 million pensioners who will lose up to 350 euros, despite the flaws yesterday by Mrs Ahtsoglou, and concern a total of 4.5 million wages and pensioners who make statements on the tax on employees and pensioners. It is not enough - I think - to stay in numbers and numbers. He must reveal a great political fraud. He must reveal a Machiavean plan prepared by Mr Katrugalos with the personal difference. The plan, which he said, to vote again on, that we will not make cuts, but that we will increase because we will increase GDP. And he introduced the personal difference to mock the retired and now the cut comes and the cut is over. That was a Machive plan. Here, too, we must reveal the falsehoods and fraud - and I do not want to use any other conditions that have been heard here in the Chamber - by Mr Tsakalotou, who would have resigned if the tax had fallen from EUR 9 000. He took it on 8,663 euros and today it lands on 5,682 euros. It's a wage - not the memorial salary, but the salary that SYRIZA would pay, the EUR 751 - loss for every worker. Ladies and gentlemen, with the increase in contributions other fraud against the self-employed, free tradesmen and farmers by subtracting from the taxable income of contributions, the contributions of an average professional were increased, as we were told yesterday. In fact, they called it a ‘contribution contribution’. It's a double increase. It is firstly taxation because it does not deduct contributions and secondly it is the contributions, because it will be calculated in the new taxable income, if you have not understood it, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, which you are saying, 'Where will the contributions increase?' And what does the government answer to all this? Who is the new government propaganda now? It's the most infamous countermeasures. And it is typical of the faith of the SYRIZA parliamentary group that tells us to vote for the countermeasures. Fortunately, it does not tell us to vote for the measures they have taken. What do they say, ladies and gentlemen, the countermeasures? The countermeasures are a number of tax and social benefits. If the scenario described in Article 15, namely, creditors, agree that the conditions are fulfilled in the two-month period of the high primary surpluses of 3.5%, then they will allow us to implement them gradually and after we have voted on the measures. And Mr. Tsakalotos, who enjoys the football terms, tried to answer me that the Pan-Eleucines of Barcelona will win. I would refer him to read again in the texts he has submitted in the medium term how many cumulative measures and how many countermeasures are and then tell me the score. Apparently, not even with stiff penalty, the Pan-Eleisian isn't going to win. Ladies and gentlemen, however, the countermeasures, to come to the most serious ones now, are not only those linked to government propaganda to persuade the parliamentary majority to vote. The countermeasures, based on the wording of Article 15, are a transfer of legislative power to lenders. The Minister of Finance, who is legally responsible for bringing rules to the House, is converted into a post office of a decision to publish it in the Official Journal of the Government. We, ladies and gentlemen, say 'no' to measures and countermeasures. And our 'no' is clean, it is narrow-track, because we cannot accept measures and countermeasures within an agreement binding on the country, which devours it to austerity, deadlocks and memoranda and years to come. It is not in our view, ladies and gentlemen, that we should pooren up, dismantle the middle-class, and then distribute piles. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Ladies and gentlemen, if Mr Tsakalotou's tears, which he was telling us yesterday about the hungry children in the schools, were to be honest, Mr Tsakalotos, who knew at the end of the third quarter of 2016 where the primary surplus - which is to be closed, that is, because the evidence indicated that we had at the time 4 billion - would have taken care of the memorandum and what he said later in his letter to creditors, when he put the tail in the legs, to distribute the surplus, that is, what Mrs Gennimata mentioned in her proposal. And I testify to her in the Minutes, don't tell anyone that the Syrians don't know her. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Giannis Koutsoukos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] He proposed in certain ways that we allocate the 1.9 billion that SYRIZA owes to the citizens and forgot to distribute it. And so, carry the arrays and social policy from now on. This is a proposal that has to do with Mr Tsakalotou's sensations about how hungry children are. I come now, ladies and gentlemen, on a major issue of ideological and political, flag of SYRIZA. A flag that has now been subjected to it, which concerns the question of industrial relations. Look at the provisions of the bill. Instead of applying collective bargaining, as he said, the government extends them until the end of the programme in 2018. Instead of protecting team redundancies, as it said "over our body", the Supreme Labour Council is turning a mail handler without any role in the Minister, and so team redundancies are implemented with the notification by the employer. Full release. What else do we need to say, how else do we say it to understand? For reasons of force majeure, see the provision referring to the Civil Code, the possibility for the employer to declare wage compensation. The representative of the Union of Judges and Prosecutors in legal terms said here yesterday to alleviate Mrs Ahtsoglou's arguments. Ladies and gentlemen, what else does the working package contain? It contains the question of fast track redundancies by means of appeals to the courts and also contains the trade union licences, which we believe is linked to the reduction in the right of strike in the SMOU, which we will see in September. But weren't there any issues of ideological and political priority the auctions when Mr. Tsipras said 'no house in the hands of a banker'? Did you get a lot of money about the electronic auctions? Wasn't SYRIZA's flag on Sundays? In fact, they now began to religion and I see them in the churches and in the relics. Ladies and gentlemen, what did you tell us when we set here, in 2013, on eight Sundays, by decision of local communities, when we arranged Sundays in the tourist regions? Now you give it all, half a Sunday of the year, half a Greece. What did you feed the uniforms, the judges, when the previous government brought them into which we participated here to pay them the one dose? He said Mr Kammenos "here and now" and that he would give it all. And he dealt with going out to the House with the soldiers on the basis of this psalmology, and he will now come to vote on all of it, what the uniforms filed yesterday as a result of falsehood and a great fraud. There's more to it, a large number of unfavourable arrangements through the bill. And you are wrong with a regulation, which is a correction of sinfuls, the one that you abolished by Law 4334/2015, the table of low VAT rates, which you should bring here with another bill to vote together all of us. Because it's a correction of sinners, of your own sinners, in this bill. And because the bodies that were yesterday, the more than forty bodies, revealed you and even with hard expressions, now the mutant SYRIZA is messing with the trade union representatives, those who until yesterday cared. When did the working class heroes, ladies and gentlemen, become traitors? When? When SYRIZA was mutated. That's the change. They said the same about us, they say the same about you. So to conclude, ladies and gentlemen, and not to waste time on the basis of what we have said, on the basis of the agreement that we have denounced, we say that the country does not go so and we call on the New Democracy to take a stand on some of the issues raised by the social partners and have called on it not to go along with the fact that SYRIZA will vote on the liberalisation of markets. Because when you are feeding, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, to the officials that you will pay them the second instalment, I want to hear what you say about working relations and about Sundays. Don't hide behind SYRIZA. So the country doesn't come out like this. The country wants another course. That is why we are talking about national understanding, about negotiating to reduce the surpluses to 2%, a national framework for attracting investment, a stable tax system, a climate for triggering the social and productive forces of the country, and this requires a change in correlations with the Democratic Partnership at the heart of political developments. Otherwise, we're going from a dead end to a dead end. I repeat that we are voting against very narrow words and countermeasures!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u47	The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u48	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Communist Party of Greece welcomes thousands of workers who have been looking after the strike in the workplace since the morning. It welcomes the thousands of workers, the unemployed, the professionals and traders, the young and the young, the women of the populace, who are deeply involved in the racing movement. These racing mobilisations and popular participation are the best response to the Prime Minister's challenge to claim that the people accept measures and government policy, which is why they are not protesting. The Communist Party of Greece will make every effort to ensure that these racing mobilizations not only continue but also escalate, it will make every effort to organize the struggle of the people and the social alliance for more overall ruptures and overthrows. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is causing the Greek people. He continues the anti-Flemish policy of the former governments. He works for the interests of the bourgeoisie and big capital. On behalf of the monopolist groups, it shall be negotiated. It works perfectly with the imperialist organisations, the European Union, the International Monetary Fund and the European Central Bank. The result of this impeccable cooperation is the agreement to close the second assessment. The result of this tough negotiation is the fourth memorandum, which legalises all previous memoranda, and the first Memorandum of PASOK and the second Memorandum of the New Democracy - PASOK - DIMAR, but also the third Memorandum, which voted for all parties on the Euromon road. It steps on the anti-grass legal framework that these memoranda have been built. It also takes new anti-grassroots measures, which will act cumulatively in the already hit and winter homes. That is, the fourth memorial tomb is the deadly mixture for the people. The question, which arises, is what the aim of the new agreement, of the new assessment, is to serve all these measures. We say clearly that the philosophy and this agreement on the second assessment, the fourth memorandum, are measures to satisfy the needs of capitalist development. Through this framework of measures, they form an even more favourable financial environment for the management of state debt and the exit to the markets, they create even more favourable conditions for the activities of monopolistic groups and attract investment for the financial support of monopolistic groups. They even more shield the system from popular reactions. These are the three axes which the new agreement serves faithfully. With regard to the budgetary nature, the measures included are measures to meet the forecasts of the bloody primary surplus and to achieve this objective of the bloody primary surpluses are also moving towards new reductions in pensions, both primary and secondary, up to 18% in the name of dealing with the personal difference. So what is it actually confirmed? What we were talking about about the Katorugalou law is that in his philosophy, the pension, which will be given after a few years, will be this charity allowance and, in essence, is being destroyed, the social and public nature of social security is being abolished. So, next to the twenty-three previous pension cuts comes and this EUR 7.8 billion reduction, for the period 2019-2021 and which will be permanent, will continue and further reduce the population's pensions. Secondly, the second package of measures in the context of this fiscal consolidation is the new tax raid on the populace and especially on the low-popular strata through the reduction of the tax-free amount to EUR 5,600. Only 4 billion additional revenues will flow from this tax reduction for the period 2020-2021 and for the future. Thirdly, it provides for reductions or even abolition of allowances, such as a 50% reduction in heating oil or the abolition of benefits for the unemployed who first enter the labour market. The cost of all this package of reduction and abolition of allowances is another EUR 500 million. This is the one package of measures, of the budget. The second, the most characteristic, is measures that support the needs of capital and monopolistic groups. Accelerate the privatisation process and new EEIGs are part of the Fund. To work how? Serving the interests and needs of capital with new forms of privatisation. You are further liberalising markets, such as the electricity market. Increase the auction volume of electricity for the benefit of whom? The speculators, who will buy cheap electricity through these auctions and sell it expensively to popular households. Proceed to the immediate separation of IPTO by PPC with the aim of privatising it. You are going to privatise 66% of DESFA, as well as the new package of measures, as Mr Stathakis explained yesterday, regarding PPC, which will be launched by September for the sale of lignite plants, as well as a number of other measures that form part of the needs of the accumulated capital, so that it can exploit business and profitable sources of electricity in our country. You are effectively abolishing Sunday’s holiday. And it will be a powerful blow for merchants to liberate the operation of shops and on Sundays. And it's for the benefit of the multinationals, the stores, the big supermarkets. It will also be a blow not only to traders but also to workers themselves, because the hours will be liberated in substance and flexible working relations will become even more general. Seven days of work per week with the conditions on the labour market. And the measures taken by the previous governments in the eleven laws, you have legalized them. And you are taking other measures to further liberate this fourth memorandum and actually lead to the release of collective redundancies. They actually lead to the right of retreat with the fast track procedures, where a strike can be declared abusive by the courts. You are limiting even more trade union rights. You further support the capital with the so-called countermeasures. Because countermeasures for the benefit of large capital also work. The reduction in tax rates for legal persons from 29% to 26%. Employment programmes, where you will provide even more cheap workers in business groups, financed by pension cuts, from tax reductions. Increase the public investment programme to support business groups. But you're also taking masqueraded steps. And that's the most dangerous thing. Where you call them support measures for the most extreme folk layers, they are measures that support capital. You put in a false title: 'Rent grant'. And below you hide that you will finance the loans taken by the people's family to cover housing needs. So, what do you say to a family on the substance, which can have EUR 200 per month, and today it cannot be paid? "I will give you the 100 euros, you will also find the other 100 euros with loans to pay the bank." So who do you cut wages and pensions for? For the housing needs of the people's family or to fund the banks? Six hundred million a year is this package. How many of these are going to the banks? It's a disgrace! It's terrible things you're doing! Through these caricatures and monkeys you're trying to cheat the world. So, with the so-called compensatory measures you want to ash in the eyes of the world, because you have a policy that supports the needs of capital every day. And in the name of the needs of capital you sacrifice the people and at the same time you want to redistribute poverty. And don't tell me it's not like that. You say so in the rapporteur's report. What do you say on page 3? ‘Resources saved from the reduction in pension expenditure to the strengthening of the wider social groups shall be eligible.’ What's that? That is the definition of redistribution of poverty. You're cutting pensions from retired people, from the poor, that is, to support the impoverished. And you're saying it's not like that? In fact, you are asking pensioners to support this measure, namely the slaughter of their rights, so that they can live. You cultivate social automation that way. The impoverished person seeing the retired person and saying: "He is to blame for my impoverishment", instead of being the capital, shipowners and bankers, the capitalist system that is to blame. This is what you do: Cultivate social automation through this logic. And these compensatory measures will be subject to conditions. You say to the people: 'Let me burn you and grind you with oil'. So, what do you promise the people? The years of development, which you say will be between 2017 and 2021 to 2022, the people will be at the forefront of aggregations and charity benefits and not of restoring the enormous losses that have come all these years of the crisis in the period of growth. So you tell him that growth will be bloody for you and you will meet your needs with arrays and benefits rather than human working conditions that can meet the needs of the working class and the rest of the populace. You want to reduce the demands of the people and make the people comfortable with crumbs falling from the table of the rich. Fear the people and proceed to electronic auctions to cultivate fear. Nine hundred and twenty-five thousand electronic auctions will be in 2017 for debts of over 500 euros. Who's that for? Is it for banks or for insurance funds and tax funds? All those who owe and cannot pay the taxes, the insurance funds, you'll put the knife in their throats. You'll either pay or we'll take you with violence, babbling, daisy. This fear you want to cultivate to the people, and in this way you want to shield the system, through the reduction of popular demands not to mobilize, accept their destiny, by putting an obstacle to organising the popular struggle through the new measures that you will take against the strike, against trade union rights, but at the same time, the measures - and we will say this here - for the financing of the parties. You're making even more reactionary changes. The JRC has repeatedly and publicly placed itself on this issue, clarifying that no denomination can be made for coupons or a limit on the amount collected. And during the adoption of this law in 2014 we clearly stated that it will not deliver the names of the members, friends and supporters of the JRC. And the main source of funding for the Communist Party of Greece - even stones know - is the people. And financial support from this people and the working class is a condition for the JRC to exist, but at the same time also an important link to the JRC's political activity. And we're telling you clearly that we're not going to take such measures as JRC. Checking can be done in economics and is done in the party's finances, but we will never deliver you lists of members and amplifiers. We also repeatedly say it clearly that through these procedures you are trying to interfere in the functioning of the parties, in order to shield the bourgeois power and to form parties that, in one way or another, do not question the power of capital. So, unified is the philosophy of measures and countermeasures and the Greek people must not be legitimised. We're dating, you say, from the memorials and the comitology. Who are you kidding? These measures are on a permanent basis. Secondly, there is European economic governance and the European semester that controls all the budgets of all the Member States. There is the automatic budgetary cut at European Union level when the budgetary terms are not met. And thirdly, there is this fund for the ninety-nine years that you have committed public property for the benefit of debt service, state debt, and for the benefit of business groups. You claim to open the way to the state debt settlement. Who is responsible for the state debt? The needs of capital. Who do you think he has to pay for it? The people. And every write-down that takes place means new anti-grassroots measures and we are talking about the conditions for repayment of the State debt and not about the amount, so that resources are available to finance the capital. The Prime Minister said it is a discharge agreement from the Memorandum, but it is a ticket agreement for the labyrinth of capitalist development that awaits the working class and the self-employed and professionals the Minotaur of capitalist profit to break them down. Why is the cause of the problems and the attack the people are facing today? Is it the debt level? Is it the impotence of the government? Ideas? The Greek peculiarity? We say it clearly that these responses are trying to hide the real guilty person that is the competitiveness of monopolistic groups, capitalist profit and the capitalist system itself. And these are the measures taken in Greece that are being taken throughout the European Union, independently of the economic situation. From this point of view it is easy for the opposition of the other parties, New Democracy and PASOK, to make personal attacks on Government ministers for their degree of competence. Do you want to forget your own greetings when you were ministers? You want to hide strategic deadlocks, which you also have the strategic weakness, because you are now identified with SYRIZA and ANEL in the measures that serve the needs of capital. You want to cultivate the logic of less evil, to choose the people between Scylla and Harry. But these little evils become a huge evil for the people cumulatively when they work.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u49	Finish, Mr. Karathanasopou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u50	I shall conclude, Mr President. Make him choose the parties to the government and change the parties to the government. We therefore say - and I am closing with that, Mr President - that these measures are inevitable for capital, for the capitalist system, but not for the people. He hasn't said the last word. He must claim all the losses, but also make the front of his struggle satisfying the modern needs. We can live better. There are all the terms and conditions. That is why today the strengthening of the JRC, which has taken precedence over the struggle of the people, the social alliance, the rupture and the overthrow of the people, is required. The fear of the people to have.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u51	Three colleagues have left: Mr. Papachristopoulos, Mr. Katsiantonis and Mr. Mavrotas, and Mr. Varidis, Mr. Loverdes, Mr. Karras, Mr. Karras, on the objection of unconstitutionalism and on the part of SYRIZA Mr.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u52	As Mr Javarras and I as Parliamentary spokesman, he said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u53	As you say, yes. Because I saw you signed. Okay. Mr. Javarras. No problem. And on behalf of the government, a minister who wants to. And then the vote will take place in the known way. That is why I inform the Secretaries of the Parliamentary Groups that the vote will be between 13.15' and 13.30'. Those of the colleagues who wish to participate will have been notified to be in the Chamber from 13.15 ́ to 13.30 ́. Mr. Papachristopoulos, I'm sorry I had you standing up, your leg still hurts. Come on, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. I believe that no one has the right to monopolize the truth or to claim infallibility. And if there is a great deal of parliamentary democracy, it is because all the points of view may be heard in this Chamber. Some people may not like us, some to adopt. So the last one that would monopolize the truth is me. However, I would like to turn to my point and say that there are two conflicting worlds in this Chamber. On the one hand, the voice of the market, of offshore, of multinationals, of economic heavens, of stock exchanges and on the other hand society. I want to believe that in this conflict, the inconsistent one, I do not know who will be won and who loser, but those who have chosen society, at least, will never regret. I'll be more specific and more specific. It's an easy thing to hit the symptom and pretend you don't see the cause. He's not a good doctor, he's giving a painkiller for a fever if he never finds out, or if he doesn't tell his sick man what happened to that fever. In World War I, the winner imposed the conditions. And so is World War II. The loser was a weak link. It is a sacred obligation, I believe, for the Greek society to know how the country has arrived in this situation. Some insist - one would say reminiscent of Pavlov's experiment - to ignore the real causes of this crisis that really plagues the country. And I would like to say that any worker whose trade unions have - in my opinion - is right. It doesn't matter whether it was ten or twelve times. A euro will cut you off now that you're under economic suffocation, you're protesting. Yes, we have a political cost because we rule. He does not consider the other person whether he was cut off by pensions of eleven or twelve times. A euro will cut you now, it's your fault. I respect that and I don't have a word about it. It is important, however, to know how the country has reached this point. I was looking at an example the other day, because I'm in the Health Committee's examination, with how comfortable the CDC gave 1 million euros to a specific television station only for a matter that was indifferent. I was still looking at how comfortably the CDC gave 300,000 euros to another station with a private agreement for messages. For those who are not aware of what CEDEFOP means, because I am a doctor, it is about communicable diseases, epidemics, outbursts around the world, all over Europe, all over the planet. No one pays advertising messages for this kind of projection. I could say a lot of things. It made me a terrible impression that a 7,000 euro heat camera was buying 115,000 euros. We've all forgotten about it, and I see people who move the finger. They're good. Everyone is judged. But it is important to see what this government is doing. I have a feeling - and I said it in my previous speech - that this agreement ends. At the moment we are talking in a few days' time, I think that the 7.5 billion euros we owe is being regulated. That's what they're talking about. It's a nipple in the neck, for which we've never been to blame. It is, at the moment, considered almost given - with a very small asterisk - our participation in quantitative relaxation. I think that sooner or later, we are going to go out to the markets, that is to say, we are going to have to borrow and we are going to go out - I think - definitively on the markets very soon. That's good for the country. The nipple must be permanently out of our neck. I am very critical again. A question is born and I beg the popular expression: Hey, you guys, forty years, had the helm of this country. Really, what prevented you from doing this nice thing that you're suggesting here to have acted on? What prevented you, for example, from having introduced plastic money and according to the Bank of Greece's report, saving EUR 1.5 billion? For those who have a question, 617 million euros did not share any friends, as they used to be. I mean, another thing, because over-excession, micropsy and inaccuracy is a badge. There's been a lot of noise for 300 euros. Everyone knows that. If they were to ask a tax agent that if the government were to delay giving it, this little, this nothing, would go to the 2017 budget and lose. One and a half million citizens would not have been able to give Christmas a present. And I'm saying again, it's nothing big. For seven days, however, the channels played corruption unresolvedly, supposedly, because HICP did not have time to make the crossroads. I could have taken the 300 euros myself. It happened I didn't get them. Although we have parliamentary democracy there is - I am sorry to say this - an atrocious media almighty. Even now that we're talking about it, it's a day-to-day sporting distortion of reality. I could mention many examples. I don't want to scratch wounds. I said it to the committee, and I said it when the chairman and Vice-President of the PSE had come. For one month this summer three active ministers were negligently murderers because they wanted some channels, some newspapers, some radios. And when all the evidence came out that these people weren't involved, even now that we're talking about, there's citizens who think there was no smoke without fire. This government is struggling with adverse conditions, under conditions of economic suffocation and professed ‘parent’. They never let that government rule human, normally. The elections didn't take them by dictatorship. The Greek citizen voted. And yet, under conditions of economic suffocation, permanent parentheses, a rampant attack by all, he managed to survive. It manages now that we are talking about getting the country out of the comitology. I will be unpleasant, but I cannot repeat that I am one of the last to say that these measures for many citizens are unreasonable. But to these people know that most of us MPs did not enter the House to get rich. We don't use the parliamentary office to make money. I am one of those who first - and I will do so in the next constitutional review - to be the Members of Parliament of full and exclusive employment. It is to the credit of all Parliament's wings, because I have found MPs from all parties who share this view. I don't want to remind you what old politicians did. It's unpleasant to me to remind them of them, but it's the people who move hands to tell us what they did to the Stock Exchange. Then who ruled the country when incredibly billions went into the hands of an elite? What did they do with the Olympic Games? It's not just the C4I. It's too much. How many billions changed pockets with overpricing and went back to an elite? What about the equipment? It's not just Yannes Papantoniou who had forgotten him for thirteen years. It's a lot. What about health? However, Paul and Xanthos bring into this bill something I ask for, I scream for it, twenty-five years: to check supplies and invoicing of medicines. What prevented you from doing this? That's how nice you suggest. There was an unbelievable 'partner', which cost more than 85 billion. How much did SIEMENS cost? Some who had personal contacts at that time with Christophe made sure he didn't talk. They knew what was waiting for them. So many billions were then SIEMENS. What about the Agricultural Bank? The loan facility that was made without guarantees how much billions did it cost the Greek citizen's pocket? Which elite took that money? Why do you forget your debts? I'll say it again. If I owe a hundred euros to someone, I'm going to go away so I won't meet him before I get rid of him. You owe close to half a billion, 420 million. Say something. Don't suggest a solution, I won't listen. If someone owes you a debt and tells you about democracies, you can't hear him at all. I hear a lot of talk. Tell me what you're doing with your debts, how you'll pay them off. One and a half billion. You've given the media a hand. Official papers. Search the famous "listers" to find a name Syrizaios or a name ANELitis. We'll apologize. Look to see which names they are in these "listers". I don't like digging. What'd you do to hide them so they wouldn't come to the surface? The country at the moment we're talking is heading forward. It became the extrajudicial compromise. You blame us for being against entrepreneurship. As a manna from heaven, there were four hundred thousand businesses waiting for him. One hundred and twenty doses. Ten years 50 euros. What did you do? What did you do about the register? We're the only country that doesn't have a register. We brought the forest maps. Why? Why is that reaction? Why this rabies? Let me say something, we were infinite in 2015, but unemployment found it at 27%. Two and a half million Greeks were on the line of poverty. You, with the grand plans and forty years of governance, had two and a half million on the poverty line and a million below the poverty line. Have you forgotten? Three hundred thousand young people had already left for Europe. I didn't say the next few years were better. But one thing has not been done: we have not despised the mandate of the Greek citizens. I say it, and I may be a little ethered, because the businessman from his nature wants to win and he cares about money: never again a intertwined politician! And if there is, to fire the outside! And that's not a party's concern. We all need to be an example of why the country went bankrupt. Why did the country go bankrupt? All submerged in corruption and strife. When I say 'all', I don't mean the MPs - for God's sake - a big part. And I must say that all parties have clear and honest politicians. For one thing, we are committed and I think it is human commitment: this country should come to normality, to rule properly. We have a year and a half ahead of us, and I think we will give it all to regain the confidence of the Greek citizens. You have a set-up around 83%. You're not going any more. The ruling party and we have a little bump because a 40% -50% look forward to something. And I believe that, because hope is dying lately, we will give it to the Greek citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u55	The special speaker of the Association of Centres, George Katsiantonis, is called in Stepma. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am starting with the only positive provision on the abolition of the tax credit for us Members, like the one on the control of the costs of the financial management and imaging of this and, of course, the financing of parties and candidates for Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament. Today I feel justified because it is my political belief that all my fellow Members are consciously agreeing that this should apply to Greece, which has taught democracy and equality. On the other hand, I can only say that the bill - fourth memorandum - is a promise without a reflection. It is a post-time check, which, when found in the hands of the citizens as bearers, will be in danger of digging uncovered and of course unpaid. So I can only describe the countermeasures, which you supposedly anticipate will strengthen the Greek society and generally the political and social fabric of the country. All of them are cultivated, so we have to see how and whether or not this cult can be paid for. We all know and - in judging the odds themselves - that you also know that the bill does not come and all we will see in front of us in the next one, two or three years, respectively, are additional problems in society. Let's see, then, the countermeasures that come, completely incomplete, to be legitimized: Rental allowance. We do not know the conditions for the individual income limit of EUR 9,600, a joint ministerial decision on the matter will be required. The 'British Care' programme is unknown when it will work and when the stations will be ready. The 'School Lunch' programme is wrong, and in fact social inequality is introduced, because it is not extended to all pupils of public education, but only provided for 50% of students. Child benefit: It is wrong that you tax it as income, as unfortunately you do for all benefits. The new jobs, even if they are found in the details and formalities of the OAED and the Minister responsible, have God! There should at least be data on the OAS proposals ready and included in the relevant bill. The tax reduction: Another condemnation for the country, another convict for the Greek citizen. The reduction of income tax rates for businesses: Instead of doing at least at the very last moment reasonable and starting its power yesterday, unfortunately this will start in 2020 and after you have wiped out every hope of growth for Greek entrepreneurship. The abolition from 1-1-2018 of the 1.5% reduction in income tax withholding on earnings from employed persons, pensions and so on. Similarly, the abolition from 1-1-2017 of the income tax reduction for medical services. The "fish" has already been unprecedented since this year in the special wage bills. The reduction from 1-1-2018 to the ceiling of expenditure on social security benefits. Fifty-eight million euros a year reduced over half, which - two years ago was EUR 210 million. All of this is 'air', since they will enter into force subject to the condition and to the extent that no derogations from the medium-term budgetary objectives are not created. I am already being accepted by fellow citizens and by our fellow citizens, since they now clearly see that almost all of the countermeasures will not be fruitful, because simply the target numbers and the surpluses you promise do not come out. You obviously want to create conditions of absolute control of society through changes in the area of collective redundancies. You see that before well - the institution of the company's extrajudicial system is already in trouble and you don't just know where to collect it. In the matter of public procurement and procurement you are complicating things, rather than helping to unify the framework of public procurement, as well as the issue of electronic auctions, which we see in the end is that you have passed from 'no house in the hands of a banker' to 'I give it as long as I can get away with it'. But I don't know what you want to get away with. Really, how do you feel about delivering Greeks' homes unconditionally to foreign investors - "true" real estate? With regard to the issue of changes in the role of the financial prosecutor, I really wonder what criteria change the management of information sent by the prosecutors to the tax administration and will be characterised as simple information, without binding information. There is definitely a problem of unconstitutionality here. Likewise, I have serious reservations about the benefit resulting from provisions such as the abolition of the special duty on isopropyl alcohol. To bring the VAT back to 13% from 24% on farm supplies: what will be the benefit if it is, after all, offset by expenditure as expenditure and, on the other hand, by the farmers? Get provisions for establishing a single classification framework for rooms in rent. For the provisions of private education, I believe that only harm will be done to the professional freedom of private education. There are provisions for renting real estate via electronic platforms, internet, etc., as well as for the electronic register for the production of public and private works. However, as we look at this bill, all that is clear is that we are in the fourth memorandum with measures that you made it by SYRIZA - ANEL, measures that were not even included in the third memorandum that we were supposed to be in a worse situation, and you made a promise that you would make the future. In fact, in this Memorandum, no matter how much you want to baptize it, I see treasures hiding anywhere, as you want to baptize these countermeasures. On the contrary, it includes EUR 4.9 billion new measures. From where you said "not a new euro", you are currently bringing new measures, which, up to a year ago, none of the lenders even put them on the table. If we make an account for the more than two years of your co-government, then we reach space numbers that touch the EUR 14.2 billion. And we all remember the programme of Thessaloniki that you would provide 12 billion euros for. You have devaluated all active, labour and social, human resources of the country. You have impoverished one and a half million professionals and farmers, and unfortunately many young people in our country are leaving to find jobs. I have no sign of optimism, because others tell me the numbers and the reality that you have brought to the country. So let's see what the reality is. For all countermeasures to be implemented, a primary surplus of 5.5% of GDP must be achieved, while even 2.5% does not come out. You are, unfortunately, adjusting downwards the forecast growth rate for 2017 to 1.8% from the forecast of 2.7% that was the original target. From the famous e-mail Hardouvelis, which provided for measures of EUR 1 billion, we finally reached a clearer level of living and development of EUR 12.5 billion, with measures that could obviously have been avoided and today had as a country a clearer level of living and development. Unfortunately, for the next few years, the forecast for growth is downwards: for 2018 at 2.4% instead of 2.5% wanted by the Commission, for 2019 at 2.6%, for 2020 at 2.3% and 2021 at 2.2%. These figures are far from being targeted for a primary surplus of 3.5% for the years 2018 to 2021. Seeing the immediate future for 2017 to 2018, you are imposing on us measures of the order of 660 million euros, can even reach 700 million euros. For 2019 you impose measures equal to 1% of GDP or two billion euros from cuts up to 18% in pensions in 2019. And additional measures equal to 1% of GDP or two billion euros from the tax reduction. You say that along with the anti-social measures you bring, there will be the so-called countermeasures. Only if they are to be implemented will creditors be required to be well disposed and approved. In fact, the primary surplus of more than 3.5% for 2019 to 2021, have you budgeted it together with the wage and pension cutter, or with the reduction of tax earlier than is foreseen, or with the unacceptable increases in the contributions of the free professions? So you're counting on attracting investors to the country? Did the Prime Minister really bring the I do lotus of Bank of China and other social banking institutions to buy Greek bonds? Mr Tsakalotos knows something and emphasises that they did not bring the memorial measures under urgent procedure, but with urgency. As we see, the fourth memorandum is full not only of costed and budgeted measures, but also of unknown future measures. You say that the arrangements that you bring in this bill are directly linked to the implementation of the current Financial Adjustment Programme and the completion of the second assessment. Why do you baptize everything as interventions? For the purpose of debt regulation, I personally see that I see a huge zero. You say, for example, that the reductions in pensions respect the principle of proportionality and do not suddenly upset the level of living of this particular category of pensioners. You are talking about social support measures, which you will provide through savings of resources from the reduction in pension costs. All this will be found to go back to the losers. You can bring home a couple of households in the health field with a glue, and you can also take care of some "your own children". Like, for example, with the National Central Health Supplies Authority for Centralisation of Supplies. You hire eighty permanent, twenty scientific associates, an unknown number of qualified technicians and other consultants, with an undetermined level of remuneration. I should like not to omit the fact that you are also putting a seven-member board of directors, with the associated fees, of course. So, all this needs to check the Ministry's health supplies? So, you can't distract a hundred people from the public sector and the wider public sector to do this job? I personally believe that this can be achieved by a hundred civil servants. However, forecasts of a project and hope of an increase in household income unfortunately do not see. Gentlemen of the government, continue to buy political time, borrowed by the moral tolerances and tolerances of society. But you have long lost your legitimacy from it and above all you have no right to hand over Greece irons.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u57	We're closing down with Mr. George Mavrota, a special speaker from the river. Mr. Black, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u58	Thank you very much, Mr President. We talked for two days on the committees a multiplier plan of nine hundred and forty-one pages, which we had in our hands for only thirty-eight hours. I will try to approach the issue of the multi-project cooling, without populism and analogy, but with elements and arguments. It is a plan - others call it 'the fourth Memorandum', others 'the 3 plus Memorandum', others 'a permanent memorandum' - which must be voted on in due course to close the second evaluation. Includes direct measures such as special wages, increased contributions for freelance professionals, measures taken in 2019 and 2020, reduction of pensions and reduction of tax, and countermeasures ‘whether or not’. I mean, maybe they'll never be taken. Definite cuts, uncertain benefits! Was it necessary for the price to be so heavy for such a large part of society? In our opinion, no. It is heavy, because the government is constantly postponing its obligations and only doing so when the knot reaches the comb. And then, the pain is greater. Because trading is not done in cold time, it is on the move and as long as the uncertainty generated slows down the vehicle and then to re-grow up this vehicle needs to burn more gasoline, that is, more measures are needed. One, therefore, combined with impunity and unreliability gave birth to the heavy measures. They say that, after all, the figures and figures are not easily deceived. The countermeasures of 'whether or not' are essentially a legislative alchemy. These are actions that we should have legislated on our own, and we should have implemented rather than forged to golden the pill in MPs and society, so that they turn the debate into something intensely emotional and comforting. If, by 2020, the countermeasures will actually be applied, they may have changed their countermeasures ten times if or not. Let's get to the count. Many, and especially in the New Democracy, say that future measures are unacceptable because they commit the next government. However, in that sense, I think they are much more committed to the next opposition that will have voted for them. There are many planned, but delayed, prerequisites that the government either had voted and postponed its implementation, because it did not want or wish or did not want or can not, whether it had voted in the wrong place, and now corrects them, or it is voting for the first time. However, the details in which these prerequisites come from the institutions are indicative of how much confidence they have in us that some things we can do on our own. Let's get some more specific. By the end of Article 15, the future measures and countermeasures shall be described. The measures are the guarantee requested by the IMF to participate in the programme, the countermeasures, as we have said, are the comforting record of the Members' vote. In the second part, in Articles 16-21, we have the jobs that are, however, actually referred to in September. In the third part, in Articles 21-35, we have the Central Health Supplies Authority, which replaces EPA. We talked about this yesterday. Indeed, we need to centralise health supplies so that economies of scale can be made available. As an idea it's right, in implementation it's a problem. One hundred new staff posts, of which four directors, twelve divisions and twenty-two secretaries and clerks. Who's left to do the real job? New structures, new recruitments, the enlargement of the state instead of its perpetual household. In the fourth part we have the corruption and transparency in the parties' finances. We had made our proposals to the Committee of Inquiry into the loans of parties and the media. You ignored them then and now, at least, you bring something, because they're probably forcing you. Transparency in parties' finances is something that should have been done years ago and we would have avoided or even reduced past phenomena. However, there should also be penalties for non-compliance. For example, we said for every month that the balance sheet will be published withholding 2% of this year's state grant, so that parties will be forced to comply. There are other issues which favour the largest parties at the expense of the smaller ones, as set out in the bill. So we have some objections and we would like there to be more time for consultation on this important issue. The conditions for registering public publications in the press are relaxed in Article 55. In other words, the number of days and cards that have to be printed is reduced to be eligible, thus extending the possible forms to be entered. It is a provision that we are'slapping' because we are burnt to the shell. In other words, it smells 'we give our people money'. Let's go to Article 58, which deals with the insurance contributions of the professions. It's, basically, a requiem for the free trader. There must be a photograph of a professional who, underneath it, writes "is wanted". You have proclaimed him. You wanted the Katorugalou law to equate him with the employee in the contributions, making him pay both thirds of the contributions, which the employer pays for. Now, you've got him to pay a contribution on the contribution he paid, without deducting it from the income. It is no coincidence that last year's Katrugalou law has been implemented, seventy-five thousand two hundred and sixty-eight free professionals on their blocks, and this number will probably increase by the provisions you bring. It is a large part of the relative activity that will thus pass into the black economy, with a tragic impact on their incomes of a state. One sentence: Since employers' contributions account for around 25% of gross wage, they should be defined as the basis for calculating contributions for freelance professionals 80% of net profits, i.e. income minus taxes and contributions. Thus, in the remaining two years that remain until the full application of the Contributions Act, somehow the error can be corrected. In Article 70 to reduce VAT on agricultural supplies, we cannot be negative. It is a measure that can revive the so important for the development of the agricultural sector. In Rule 71, the assimilation of Members with other citizens to their tax obligations is correct and should have been done long ago. It is a basic principle in his leadership, for example, that those who lead, who determine by their decisions the fates of the people, must set the good example first. Especially when deciding on sacrifices, they should put themselves in. They mustn't take their "heavy" off the outside. In Article 98, while we don't have any money for pensions and for children's meals, we have for our own people. Seventy-five new secretaries were created - administrative secretaries, sectoral secretaries, their alternates - and by joint ministerial decision, CSR, the level of their remuneration would be adjusted. It is now coming with this multi-project, as if it is something very urgent, to determine. And it is clear that we first determine their fees and then their responsibilities. Because many still don't have responsibilities. In Article 100, mobility shall be postponed until the government is prepared. Although it has been passed in the relevant law to which it has also set a timetable for implementing mobility, it has not been able to respond to them by the government, so now it must relocate and transfer them in longer time. We have, therefore, with the SYRIZA ANEL Government, except for the bad legislation, and the symbolic legislature, that is, we are legislating something just to say that we will do so without having done so. Let's go to article 101 on energy. First of all, the long-term energy planning, as there is in law, should come to Parliament, so that any decisions on PPC can be incorporated into it. You know - and this also concerns previous governments - that the last time long-term energy planning was adopted was in 2012 and it had not been passed by the House at that time. The country is planning changes and wants to attract energy investments and has not yet decided what to be its strategic framework. We made specific proposals for PPC for this part of the energy sector, as it is already in a bad economic situation and there are conditions that impose changes, such as the fact that by 2020 the share in PPC's wholesale and retail market must fall to 50%, so a large part of its production capacity will become surplus. I will say outline five proposals: Model one or two new'small' PPCs with a total of about 40% of the capacity to open up the market and attract the participation of new investors. Strategic investor with a role in PPC's administration to stop governments interfering. Ensuring jobs, which is a one-way with their accumulated know-how and specialisation in lignite areas. Improving collection, because the "I do not pay" practice encouraged by the SYRIZA Government has increased strategic bad payers and now PPC pays this. ‘COSMOTE’ model for PPC. Renewable Energy Sources that will also include energy services in a new dynamic sector. In Article 118 for the electronic register, the award criteria are completely ignored and you are moving towards an unprecedented bureaucratic approach. We heard about the special payroll yesterday the operators who came and told us about it in person. In particular, we believe that those on the front line, in the broad sense, who operate under specific conditions should be recognised accordingly. In Article 131 concerning university students, we have been heard and the correction we have said has been made. However, it remains to be seen whether this correction is enough - because it concerns only research programmes - so that those teachers can participate in postgraduate and the fees they may get from there. In other words, we must not come along with amendments to change it again. Also, on the subject of researchers - we heard their representative yesterday at the hearing of bodies - which is supposed to be our intellectual capital, we should not have two categories of scientist. In conclusion, the plan has sacrifices, many of them unnecessarily in other circumstances. That is why we will vote against without second thought. Greece has lost time and this has cost more pain. Now we have to run, at least cover the lost ground. I also understand that the vote in favour of the Multifibre Arrangement by the Members of Parliament SYRIZA - ANEL is also a pragmatic apologies to their colleagues from the other parties who characterised them as irreversible because they voted for a reduction in pensions, even when we had no surpluses, but we had a primary deficit of 10.5% and no one loan us, so the reduction in expenditure was a one-way road. I hope we've all become wiser. No government has a chance of success unless it pursues a political and social consensus. We understood that by listening to the institutions yesterday. But you MPs and, in general, the SYRIZA Government - ANEL - trained people to see germans and "news" with your divisive rhetoric, with their "or end them or end us". But whenever polarization and division wins, the country loses, and that in the river we will not stop saying it. Only calm and reasonable voices and not the thermo-heads that exist horizontally in all places can climb the country so that it does not depend on borrowers and stand on its own feet. It's changing, but will you tell me something without conflict? No, it doesn't. Conflicts, however, with arguments and suggestions not of insult and characterisation. This may not be good for television, but it is good for democracy and it is necessary for our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u59	As we had unanimously agreed, the meeting is interrupted, but the course of the debate and we are entering the debate on the request for unconstitutionality of the bill. The first three words will be spoken, that is, Mr. Javaras, Mr. Loverdos and Mr. Carras. On behalf of SYRIZA, Mr. Paradulopoulos will see from SYRIZA. Then the parliamentary representatives will be asked who wants to speak - if they all want to - and they will be closed by a government representative, a minister we are going to be informed of, at this time we do not know him. The debate will take place in accordance with Rule 100(2) of the Rules of Procedure and time is five minutes. The first is Mr Constantine Javarra's word as saying on behalf of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u60	Thank you very much, Mr President. With this bill - it is not the first forum, of course - there are issues of intense violations of constitutional provisions. And a basic principle, I think, that we should serve is that this House should be proclaimed of the prestige and the protection of the Constitution, so that no bills can come to the House where we have a conflict of basic and fundamental provisions of the Constitution. This is the case with provisions 1, 2, 11, 14 and 15 and with provisions 123 to 162. In particular, with the pension cuts laid down in the provisions of Articles 1 and 2, there is a serious issue which had already been left to us as a pretext for the plenary session of the Court of Auditors of 17 May. And then, in the wake of other decisions and of the Plenary Assembly of the Council of State and the Ice Bay, we now have the view that, under no circumstances can the House produce provisions that affect fundamental human rights provided for by either the Constitution or the European Convention on Human Rights. In this case, therefore, the right to the property protected by Article 1 of the Supplementary Paris Protocol to the European Convention on Human Rights is infringed for the category of persons who were already before the Kavalu Act, i.e. those who had established a pension right and had left before the application of Law No4387/2016. For them, therefore, there is a question of protecting the right to property, because on this particular amount and the rate of replacement in relation to their wages they had built up a whole life perspective that was in proportion to their obligations and the possibilities they had. Here, for the first time - and this is not negligible - the question of the legitimate balance that must exist between the violation of a human right, which is protected by the European Convention on Human Rights and by the Constitution and the protection of the public financial or financial interests, as this concept has been formulated and formulated by the case-law of the Council of State. These two, that is, between the protection of a specific right and the protection of the general public interest, there should be a balance. If this balance is disturbed in such a way that there is a reduction in the standard of living of the citizen, which is affected by these measures, so as to disrupt the overall level of life and affect its dignity, then we obviously have a breach of the provision in Article 2(2) of the Constitution. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] In this case, however, there is also a much more serious issue, which has to do with the way the House has been legislating over the last two and a half years. There is a systematic ignorance of the provision of Article 73(2) of the Constitution, which requires that tax and pension bills should be self-evident and that there should be no pension arrangements which intruse or enter other irrelevant bills. This assistance, of course, is being examined by the Council of State and there are decisions where the Council has actually denounced unconstitutionality. Furthermore, with regard to the issue of fair balance, as I said, between the infringement of the individual right and the protection of the public interest, we should see and see that, in the light of the provision in Article 22, there should be a balance between the wage received by the pensioner when he was active in his service or in his work and the amount of the pension received, so that this ratio, in the interests of the public interest, decides to impose cuts, would have to be specific documentary evidence to determine whether and whether they comply with the need for appropriateness and necessity imposed by the principle of proportionality, on the basis of Article 25 of the Constitution. In this case, therefore, such documentation from nowhere arises. In addition, it must be borne in mind that if these cuts are taken into account and taken into account today and the cuts which have been made by the other laws, the adapters to the economy and the budgets, there is a question, because in this case we obviously also have an infringement of the provision of Article 4 and Article 2 in conjunction with that which requires proportional participation in the tax burdens of each citizen. Finally, we should in any case refer to the mechanism of Article 15, which is in breach - and the Scientific Council of Parliament says so - in a way which is unacceptable, because on the basis of Article 78(3) of the Constitution, the law cannot, by legislative means, resolve or regulate issues relating to taxation. This prohibition echoes the traditionally held view that in no civilised state can taxes be levied without formal law, taxes or pension cuts. So when Article 15(1 )(c) is left to the Minister of Finance, firstly, with a decision to determine whether there is a divergence in expenditure from the intended financial objectives of the mid-term and then with measures which regulate the implementation of these specific provisions, we do not only have accreditation times for this decision, but also have interoperable function. In other words, here, the Minister for Finance is entitled to do what under the Constitution only Parliament can do, namely regulate matters in Articles 11 and 14, which are related to the determination of the subject of taxation and the change in tax rates.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u61	Mr. Javarra, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u62	Finally, there should be a question, because, on the basis of Articles 22 and 25 of the Constitution, there should be a prior analogous study, and this is the result of a large number of decisions by the Council of State, which could already have the influence and consequences of such a study, which also applies to the pensioner's life as well as to the finances of the funds. Finally, the latest unconstitutionality is about whether and whether with these pensions I mentioned, which deal with the amendments to the special categories of government officials, such as university professors, the doctors of the ESS, the officials, with these pensions - we have a concern about this issue from the Scientific Council's report - we have full compliance with the principle of the rule of law in the decisions adopted in the previous Memorandum, namely Law 4093/2012 - I mention just Council Decision 4741/2014 - were, in fact, found to be unconstitutional in the way that had been regulated, which have so far not been covered by any adaptation by legislative means of the State.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u63	You know that as long as the time is extended, not all Members on the list will be able to speak. I'll try to be a little strict this time. Mr. Loverdos has the floor for five minutes. For five minutes everyone has the floor, and please not because a colleague has spoken more about you, ten and so on. 10. It's not customary law. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u64	Madam President, forty-seven bodies of the social area yesterday condemned the draft law in Parliament. Not one of them found out how to say a good word about the draft law and all the voices that were heard by the Congress yesterday, that is, a voice, was limited to devouring one of these bodies. The continuity of lying has become apparent. "We will tear the memorial with an article, a law, in one day, we have a parallel program, now we have the countermeasures." But none of them are fooled! And your Prime Minister - I address the majority - who would be "every word of the Constitution", now sees the laws of his ministers and his own every week as unconstitutional! You have violated the Constitution too many times, and you are breaking it today. And whatever the majority Members of the majority who will see, I give them a 'consultation' and a thought: hold on to it, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, because, I repeat, every week and every two of your laws are unconstitutional, and here in Parliament you say other things. Stand by today, because we have two cases of the provisions of the draft law. which is obviously unconstitutional. What has already been said in the Chamber has been said by the Court of Auditors with a specific opinion a few days ago. Many of these are repeated by the Department of Scientific Studies of the Parliament with its opinion today. But what are we talking about? What exactly is this about, ladies and gentlemen? Articles 1 and 2 of the draft law. Reductions in pensions, both of the main and the ancillary, through the abolition of the personal difference. What do the Judges of the Court of Auditors tell you? What do scientists from the Scientific Studies Directorate tell you? How you found a large linen, the largest, the state budget and you cut off from there, because with the eye you want some money and with the eye you appreciate that from there you can get. What do they say? That you don't have a proportionate study. You were applauding Mr. Katrugalos a year ago who brought some papers here and called it analogous studies. We told him that these are not proportionate studies. You who applauded him and accepted his arguments, come today and applaud the opposite. You are coming today and applauding - that is how it happened in the committees in the last two days - exactly the opposite. However, without a proportionate study, without resulting, on the basis of all the cuts, whether some classical constitutional authorities are being violated, you are currently taking a scissors and cutting pensions, gentlemen and subsidiary. I would also like to point out to you in the plenary session today that in this way you are firstly in breach of Article 4(5) of the Constitution on proportional equality, as regards participation in public burdens, Article 22(5) of the Constitution, on the protection of the social security system and, in any event, Article 25(1) of the Constitution, on the very important principle of proportionality. But we're not done here. I have always been vivid in objections of constitutionality in this Chamber and will remain. I'm adding one more layout. [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] You laugh, but you are a laughter of Greek justice and every Greek citizen! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You're laughing because you're breaking the Constitution, as you breathe! Have dignity!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u65	You're wasting your time, Mr. Loverdo. Please finish, Mr. Loverdo. I won't leave you any more time. Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u66	I therefore add to this limited list of anti-constitutionalities of this bill and Article 58. Some of you will laugh again, but you will be crying soon after cases go to court. And Article 58 is going. Under Rule 58, ladies and gentlemen, it is unprecedented to consider income - and therefore to be taxed - the contribution paid by a professional, a trader, a farmer, to the compulsory insurance system. Our social security system is compulsory. You cannot say 'I give something less, I go to private insurance'. It is compulsory and it is very expensive for many of the services it provides, especially after the last speeches you have made. In this system of compulsory insurance, medical and pharmaceutical, you now say that everything I pay for contributions to my insurance funds means income. And so it's taxed. This barbarity you are making - and you are laughing above - you must know that it conflicts and contradicts the: Article 5 of the Constitution, concerning economic freedom, Article 4(5) - and I repeat here - on issues of equal participation in public charges and, in any case, Article 22(5) on the protection of the social security system. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in closing, you applauded yesterday's personalization of indifference, the personalization of indifference, the political indifference...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u67	Madam President, close the doorbell.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u68	Turn it off, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u69	Let Mr. Loverdos ask for an extension.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u70	I would ask you, Madam President, to respect me by closing this matter. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u71	How long will it take for the closure, Mr. Loverdos?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u72	What's that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u73	I don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u74	Now did you remember?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u75	Please, sir. Please. When one goes beyond time, one gets the floor, he apologizes and says that 'I'll finish in two minutes'. That's not self-evident. Okay?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u76	Did you come to the Hall for the first time today?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u77	Yes, today. We have a serious bill and a hundred fifty MPs have been registered. Go on, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u78	You're breaking every sense of logic, but we're used to...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u79	Yeah, okay, your logic.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u80	I closed my mind by saying, here last few days in the committees of this House, how the Communism, the majority, the definition of the concept of political indifference and the prize of political indifference, which is now given to the Minister of Economy, Mr Tsakaloto, with all our hearts. You applaud today, and even you try not to hear a voice of counterpopulation when you are raised... [[Noise in the Chamber]] ...demands of constitutionality, resulting from texts you brought here to the House, which are contrary to what you applauded a year ago in the Katorugalos Act? You must think at some point that the Greek people are looking at you and you must begin to be ashamed. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u81	Mr. Carras has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u82	Madam President, I must say that it is a happy time that the Constitution provides for a report by the General Accounting Office of the State for similar legislation and, furthermore, it has been foreseen to accompany this draft law and the Financial Strategy Framework for the next four years. From there, therefore, real conclusions have been drawn. One conclusion is that the reduction in pension expenditure is 1/3 of the primary surplus which is intended to pay interest. The debt is not repaid. Only interest is sought. From that point on, the reflections begin. Indeed, the Constitution guarantees social security, but it does not guarantee - I accept it - the level of benefits, there must simply be a satisfactory proportion of contributions and benefits. I therefore have to carry out research into the unconstitutionality of other parameters. Does the cut in this amount of 2.5 billion for the years 19, 20, '21 affect the viability of the insurance system? Neither the explanatory statement tells us, nor any economic study or analogous. But you're telling us something else. You are telling us that the financial interest imposes, exceptional circumstances may impose the reduction of pensions which are guaranteed under the previous legislative regime before the Katorugalos law. And I ask now: we are in the tenth year of judgment and of memorials. Tenth year is 2019, eleventh in 2020, twelfth in 2021. Are these exceptional circumstances which could not be anticipated and which are currently imposing a drastic reduction in pensions as well as pensions, as well as supplementary and family allowances, also apply to family benefits? It is now a firm crisis, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. He's stable and constant. Therefore, we cannot remove funds from the insurance system to justify the financial need. We have exceeded the edges of the constitutional order. I'm going too far. So the explanatory statement comes to us and says we will cover this budgetary adjustment, povertying the old pensioners, to whom - not least - the Katorugalou law has guaranteed the amount of his pensions with personal differences, with family allowances and benefits. These benefits are guaranteed by the State and therefore, first of all, we have a constitutional infringement in the matter referred to in Article 22(5). But I don't live in this. I shall go further, Madam President. Has the government ever weighed the issues, the factors it had to examine? Who were they? On the one hand, the financial interest, which did not prove it to us because the explanatory statement makes no reason, there is no proportionate study. I will not dwell on what the Court of Auditors or the Council of State said. They told them about the other laws. I want to examine the constitutionality of the debater today. Did anyone - do they - whether the protection of pensioners outweighs or the protection of the financial interest? Has anyone said that if resources are removed from the economy through pension cuts, that is a real measure and we will have a recession? Has anyone set it up? Did we see any element of economics confirming that we will not have an impact on the recession? Or will we have growth when everything goes towards debt service? We won't have growth, it's a given one. My next question: Since all this has not been weighted and was therefore the only road - one that the government sees the reduction of pension benefits - is it constitutionally unacceptable? I'm going to give you a parentheses, and you're going to allow me. Members have spoken of the case-law of the courts, as has been established in particular by the Supremes, and of the report by the Scientific Office of the Parliament, which is also mentioned in the case-law. I shall proceed to something else, Madam President. I will go on and I want the Chamber to hear and decide on it. The reasons for the law are not examined by the courts. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Tolerance, please. The courts do not consider the reasoning, the interna corporis of the law, internal feasibility. It is discussed by the House on the issue of constitutionality. It's the only instrument that has this ability and that power from the Constitution. We need to consider today whether the law on these cuts really is justified or, in the light of the one-way cuts, it is suffering. And he really is, and I'll tell you right away. Article 22(5) of the Constitution can be under the terms of the law or the social system, but we have tolerable limits. These extremes are tolerable. First, because of the twelfth of the crisis. Secondly, because of the repeated cuts we now have to consider whether all the old pensioners are now in need of poverty. Thirdly, how these cuts will contribute to the economic recession and further deterioration of the economic environment. Fourthly, and for the property of pensioners, which must be protected by the Additional Protocol to the Rome Convention. And we now have a mixture of removals of resources from pensioners, removal of resources from the economy, and then the majority will come to decide the constitutionality shortly. Finishing, I repeat. The constitutionality of the reasoning has the absolute power of the House alone to examine it. I want the debate to be rotated here. Not what the explanatory statement says, which is inadequate. Secondly, will someone assure us - is it impossible to confirm this - that there are no alternatives to 1/3 of interest, which are currently deducted from the pension system? No alternatives were sought. And do you know what democracy is, Madam President? The search for the middle route, not absolute. And here he wasn't sought. In conclusion, Article 1 and Article 2 of the bill have these pathologies. In my view, therefore, they are confronted with Articles 22 and 25 of the Constitution on the proportionality and protocols of European individual rights, additives or the main ones. After that, I think the House should open up this debate, because the law will be passed today, it will be passed shortly and it will be judged in the courts and there will be repeated decisions now, which will say 'what have you done'? And we will say 'we have paid interest.' Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u83	Mr. Paradoxopoulos has the floor. Mr. Paraskevi, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u84	Thank you. My position is a little difficult, because the objections were many and some of them are not in advance. I will try to confuse them and answer them as soon as possible. I want to make a clarification first. Because many parliamentarians and those who objected to anti-constitutionalism point to the shameful nature of the measures...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u85	It doesn't sound, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u86	Mr. Paraskevi, would you like to come to Stepma? You don't sound.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u87	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u88	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u89	I'm continuing with a clarification. Of course, the measures, the reductions, and in particular the pensions, have been burdensome and painful. This is neither relevant nor questionable. In view of the painful and burdensome nature of the Constitution, it is also considered whether these are confronted, particularly in view of the country's exceptional circumstances in which the need to restore budgetary equilibrium lies. Amidst these circumstances, the country considered some reductions to serve a greater public benefit. This weighting is made in particular in cases where it is necessary to set priorities in view of the limited resources of the State and, of course, is justified in this historic period on the basis of the extraordinary and protracted crisis as part of a broader programme of fiscal adjustment that will lead the country to prosperity. Of course, the issues of unconstitutionality and, in particular, the agreement on reduction are raised in the midst of these circumstances. This is based on the objection based on Articles 1 and 2 with the principle of proportionality, with Article 25(1) of the Constitution and with the need for equal participation in public burdens. It has also been linked to the same objection and to the possibility of examining a possible impact on the first protocol to the European Convention, which refers to the need to protect the property. My view is this: Reductions are decided on as long as they are of public benefit. In order to weigh public benefit on the one hand and the burden of reductions on the other hand and their proportionality, States have discretionary powers in finding a balance of public expenditure and revenue following the examination of economic, social and political issues. The examination of these issues primarily belongs to the state. which has the tools and services which allow the Court of Justice to record the relevant needs and, of course, the Court of Justice, as has also been accepted by the Court of Justice in a general reference. Of course, this need to establish weightings applies where there is a need to identify priorities in view of limited State resources. This weighting also relates to the first protocol to the European Convention, where there is talk of deprivation or reductions that can lead to deprivation of property. It should be noted, however, that an institutionally specific and defined level has not been set which should not be reduced. What should not be the case is, of course, an intervention to the extent of the enjoyment of the right to property, which is insulting human dignity. This is justified on the basis of the extraordinary and unprecedented crisis in our country as part of a wider budget adjustment programme. The latest thoughts I read are spoken out of the Koufakis and ADEDY ruling against our country of the European Court of Justice in 2012. It is the decision which judged Law 3833 that imposed severe pension cuts of up to 30%. Refers to the first Memorandum in 2010. On the basis of these considerations, the European decision has considered it manifestly unfounded the action which had been brought on the same subject of pensions in the first protocol to the European Convention. [[At this point the end of the speaker's speech bell is being alarmed.]] May I have two more minutes, Madam President? Of course, in the past we have various instruments which have decided periodically that the previous cuts did not have the characteristic of proportionality. But there must be a warning difference here with today's situation and today's institutional choice. Previously, in the previous memoranda, cuts took place alongside many others, namely, in an environment of general reductions in guarantees and benefits. At the moment, for the first time, the environment in which these reductions are decided also provides for countermeasures, which are important benefits which are capable of improving the personal situation and living for the people who will suffer the reductions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u90	Mr. Friday, I'm sorry. When I left the bell ringing, Mrs. Christophilopoulou and Mr. Loverdo, you thought it would be obvious that you would speak as much as you like. You did not ask for permission from the Bureau. There are some rules in Parliament. Well, let it go. Anyone who does not ask for permission from the Bureau, the bell will continue to ring.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u91	I'm speeding up. Unlike previous cases here, the cumulative effect does not apply. We barely have counterweights whose activation depends on the Greek state. The past and recent economic data have shown that it is possible. Of course, there has also been a lack of a proportionate study, for the lack of an essential condition for the imposition of the measures. I'm talking as fast as I can. My view is that in this case the cuts concern the personal difference, that is, the transitional provisions of the law which are temporary. They do not concern the fixed arrangements for which a proportionate study has been issued and economic studies which have explained the feasibility of taking them. We simply have a certain degree of simulation at the moment, which so far seems to be favourable to all the regulations which have been assessed by a proportionate study. As far as the adjustment mechanism is concerned, what I wanted to say is that, as is clear, this mechanism is triggering measures, and the content of the measures is already set. The specialization by law earlier could not have been done in so far as it is not known what divergence there can be. I believe there will be no divergence. Could be 0.1%, 0,2%. They could not numerically be taken now. That is why there is this power, but it will proceed on the basis of weightings, guarantees, parameters and guidelines which are already in law. I tried to keep track of time, Madam President. I did it to a certain extent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, too. Parliamentary representatives can now normally speak. I'd like to know how many people want to talk. Everybody? Yes, sir. Well, I appeal once again and I ask that the rules of the Rules of Procedure and of the kindness be respected. Anyone who wants to have an extension specific will be asking. We can't talk ten minutes. Let anyone covered by the other cut something down. For God's sake! We've heard about unconstitutionalism many times. Of all positions, Mr Javarra, you have defended them. It's nothing. That's what I'm talking about. Now Mr. Vorides has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u93	I'll speak from my place and see. I think I'll sound. Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we must agree on the articles which are mainly insulted by the basic articles, which are pension cuts. What are you doing? What does the government ask you to vote? He's calling on you to cut pensions from everyone! All of them! To the maximum, not 18% limit. And - very importantly - from 1-1-2019 what your explanatory statement says about these cuts, which concern the most vulnerable groups, those who cannot make up for their income - why are they part of the job and are pensioners not able to make up for them? What does your explanatory statement say? Does it say a word about the insurance system? Not half! He doesn't say half a word about the insurance system. Does he say that the pensions can't be paid? Oh, no! How does the vote today anticipate that 1-1-2019 will be done? How do you know the financial conditions? Where do you know what will have happened 1-1-2019, which is said to be 'we are turning to growth', 'we are achieving surplus targets', 'we will also be able to take counter measures' and 'we are taking 7.5 billion countermeasures' -2 billion more than that - etc.Huh? How do you know the circumstances, ladies and gentlemen? Where does the government know them?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u94	The IMF.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u95	That's right. The IMF. You said that, Mr. Papadopoulos. Well done! [[Applause]] Indeed, Madam President, the IMF knows them because there is a confession in the explanatory statement. This confession makes the regulation unconstitutional, so it will certainly fall. What's the confession? 'We are doing this', you say, ladies and gentlemen, because you are cutting off pensions - 'to start the debate on debt'. That's why you're cutting off the pensions! Read the explanatory statement, Mr. President. Read it, for it is a pathetic reason. You are talking about something that has been introduced as an obligation since 2012 - the launch of a debt debate - that you have to cut pensions on this only ground. You don't say anything about the insurance system, nothing about the budget, nothing about any of it. And, of course, the Court of Auditors comes by itself and tells you: when all this is missing, how can it be justified to cut pensions? How will you explain it to the pensioners? What are you gonna tell them? That the discussion on parametric changes is going to begin, so you have to be allowed to be cut to one fifth of your pension? Is that what you're going to tell them? Is that the explanation? Yeah, that's the explanation! Ladies and gentlemen, that is what the government says to pensioners. That's right! [[Noise in the Chamber]] No, unfortunately, it's not like that, Comrade. It's not like that!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u96	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u97	But to catch up with you, because you are talking about us, do you have no knowledge of decisions? Do you have one? Why don't you conform? Didn't you have time? How long has the question of pensions been raised at the negotiating table? A year and a half now. Didn't you have time to explain something? No, you did. There's just no explanation and because you can't document it, what do you come and tell us? "We had it signed and signed." That's what you're telling us. Nothing more and nothing less. Will it be the only unconstitutionality, ladies and gentlemen of the government? Oh, no. Because there's already a pile. Let me remind you - in glossing, I don't know them all, where to watch them, but the ones I remember - the channel law. Unconstitutional. You remember the stopping of the hospital commanders. Unconstitutional. Of course you remember the definitions of managers in education. Unconstitutional. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] Madam President, I shall conclude right away. You remember, of course, recently the law on extensions to contractors. Unconstitutional. And it will, of course, be summed up in every word of the constitution you maintain and that unconstitutionality. In fact, the left has been identified by the violation of every word of the Constitution, not by their observance. That's the reality. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Here, then, you have a last chance today for the price of arms. For the price of weapons, colleagues! Protect behind the provisions of the Constitution. I don't need a lot of argument again. Simple reading of the Court of Auditors' plenary session. Simple reading of the Scientific Committee. You have all the arguments to protect you, fully, complete and at the same time do your moral duty toward the Constitution, but also to the people who are now cutting pensions for 2019, without knowing what has happened now. Take back this unacceptable provision.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u98	Mr. Koutsoukos has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Madam President. I will not attempt to repeat the reasoned arguments of the approved legal colleagues that preceded them. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Madam President, because you are too strict in the procedure, can you explain to me where these comments by colleagues are, which question the validity of the legal knowledge of previous colleagues, since you are a legal person?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u100	I'm not responding, Mr. Kutsuko.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u101	So I'm saying...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u102	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u103	Please. Come on, Mr. Kutsuko, keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u104	Mrs Anagnostopoulos is causing me to talk about gender equality, but I am not going to make the mistake, because I want to focus my position on these five minutes on the responsibility of SYRIZA colleagues to read the papers distributed to them in the body of the bill, which we shall be voting on. And these, ladies and gentlemen, if you have studied them, are the Court of Auditors' report and Parliament's Scientific Committee report. Both texts argue about the unconstitutionality of Articles 1 and 2. And with reference to the European Convention on Human Rights, in relation to the protection of property, and in reference to the provisions of the Constitution on proportionality and equality of burdens, and in particular - and I would like to insist - on the provision which proposes in any changes concerning the insurance system the existence of a proportionate study. In this case, there are decisions of the Council of State referred to by the Scientific Committee of the Parliament. It is good to see them so that you do not find yourself before unpleasant surprises, as you are used to, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, without doing what you do not understand. There are a number of decisions by the Council of State which have judged you to be unconstitutional. I would like to add that the proportionate studies in this case have a particular weight, because this is not a simple percentage cut, as was the case with the previous cuts reported by SYRIZA. This is a cut resulting from the personal difference established by the law of Mr Katrugalos, based on an allegedly proportionate study. Today neither in the explanatory statement nor in the arguments of the Minister of State, we have heard that he has a fundamental study of the proportionality principle or other international organisations, as we previously had in this case of the International Labour Office, which substantiates these cuts. Since these cuts are therefore being slaughtered at the expectations that Mr Katrugalos and the falsehoods have produced, there will be no appeals to the Council of State. So that you do not find yourself in the presence of unpleasant surprises, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, now make your decisions. My second point concerns Article 15. The current Minister for Finance - we do not know whether it will be the day after tomorrow - is given the power - which is not entitled under Article 78 of the Constitution - to set the level of the cuts. It says in this House's scientific report - which I would ask you to read - that this is not an accreditation decision which, following the adoption of the institutions, but a multiplier decision, will be taken as it determines the exact correlation between the measures and the objectives pursued. Therefore, in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution, Article 78(4) and what it says and arises from the provision, as it is written, the Minister is authorised to set the cut-off coefficients. He can't do that. The violation of the Constitution is straight. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute with your permission, Madam President. And now I come to what Mr Loverdos has developed and dispersed the attention of other speakers. What did Mr. Loverdos show up? That for the first time since the Greek tax system was set up, by Law 3332/55, if I remember correctly, insurance contributions, which are compulsory, are not deducted from actual income, as was the case until now, whether they are employed and retired or self-employed. In the present case, therefore, Article 58 adds insurance contributions to taxable income, thus increasing the contribution and increasing the tax. And according to what the free traders have said, the resulting burden is 58%. For these four articles, 1,2,15 and 58, we call for unconstitutionality and call on the majority to assume its responsibilities. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u105	Mr. Pallis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u106	In the last seven years this debate has become inappropriate, with constitutionality and unconstitutionality. And because there was a legal document here, a reply and so on, we should also do a free translation so that people can understand what is going on. So what's going on? When PASOK and the New Democracy cut off pensions 11 times, that is constitutional. When they cut them eleven times, SYRIZA makes an objection of anti-constitutionalism every time! - and, indeed, it also resorts to European courts. Isn't that right up here? So now that SYRIZA comes to the government and cuts pensions, the role changes. Now the New Democracy and PASOK are coming out, accusing that this cut and SYRIZA are unconstitutional. He plays the other role - so people know - he says it's constitutional. This is where I heard Mr. Paradise. The SYRIZA forces had brought it before the European Court of Justice, and in fact they were spelled out literally within the House that the European Union would not allow pension cuts. That's what you said, isn't it? The government is now coming and what does it invoke? The decision of the European Court of Justice, which says that the reduction of pensions - that is, the 'growth' of the world - made by the previous governments is legitimate. That's the reality. So is it unconstitutional or not? It is. So what? Who decides whether it's unconstitutional or not? The government's majority. What Constitution? How do you interpret it, even the Civil Constitution? Whoever has the majority of what he says? That the donkey is flying and even has propellers and takes off. "Do we vote? Yeah. It is constitutional." That's the point. The fact is, however, that the policy followed by both the New Democracy and the PASOK and by SYRIZA, in relation to insurance, serves class interests. They are the same, both of them and of them. Truly, how many laws have you and you - brought in to pay for the over 50 billion of those who ate them for so many years, who have stolen from the workers' sweat, which is a place? Not one of those laws. What do you bring all the time? You're kicking the workers out. Why are you fighting them? To increase the profits of big capital. In the insurance system, in order to save money from the state budget - both of them and - in order to fund business groups and to get workers into - the so-called labour market, under conditions of abstract and working-age age. We have always said that it is unconstitutional, although I say it does not make any sense at all. There's another sign. To see what and who is supporting this Urban Constitution and what policy governments, both of them, are serving against the workers and to set forth for a total overthrow of this policy. As you know, the trade unions do not solve political problems either in here. There will be what the majority will want, which will be, either on the one hand or on the other, at the expense of the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u107	Mr. Kammenos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u108	I'll agree with the government's suggestion.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u109	Mr. Megamomustakas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u110	I'll be very brief in my turn. We have heard from all the Members who objected to constitutionality because it is unconstitutional to this memorandum. The Court of Auditors told you much earlier, and this morning the Scientific Office of the Parliament has told you. Unfortunately, while listening to Mr Paradoxopoulos, all I heard was aerials and generalists. Another thing that I found out from his word is that this bill is another memorandum, the second that you bring as a coexistence and, unfortunately, you do not change the country as you mentioned in 2015. What the previous ones have done is do what you do. The reason for this colleague from the JRC was, I think, the most essential thing that has been heard today, beyond the explanations of constitutionality, as we do not see any vulnerable group being protected. We do not see that we are struggling for this development that we want, and I am sure that by continuing so, as it is most likely that we will pass what you want, we will lead to total destruction. Of course, this bill is unconstitutional and the position of the Central Association is in it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u111	Mr. Amyras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u112	Is 'aircraft' a personal matter, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u113	Okay, it's a way of expressing. Do you think you should answer that they're not airplanes? We can not put it in the Minutes. There could be a more vague expression. Mr. Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, and I particularly turn to SYRIZA and ANEL Members, if tonight, regardless of sex, your husband, your friend, your partner, tells you'my love, why did you shrink the pensions, why did you cut pensions and wages again?', what will you answer? [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] I'll give you an answer to save your bedtime. So the answer you can give is: "Since I have been soaking up as a government in the fight against tax evasion, having soaked them as a government in smuggling tobacco - let's take this a little bit more - oil and others, what did you want me to do?" This is an answer that may only convince you around, but it also highlights the essence of reality. Why, dear and dear Members of SYRIZA and ANELs, do you decide in 2017 to retire pensions and salaries? Didn't your previous pension cuts come to you? So what are you doing now? You say that the previous pension cuts did not reach us, we incorporate the previous eleven - twelve times when pensions were cut and we go further. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Paradise, if I may make a small correction. I took note of what you said. You said that 'the country has decided on these measures which are painful'. The country didn't decide, Mr. Paradoxopoulos. You, the hundred and fifty three MPs SYRIZA and ANEL, have decided and not the country. Let's go to the issue of unconstitutionalism. What does the SYRIZA Government's Scientific Service say to you, dear and dear ministers? It tells you that, for the second time, you bring pension and salary to the House without special, detailed studies, without a single paper telling us that each fund happened, each fund collapsed for these reasons, and that is what we expect the new cut, the new pension slaughter. There's no such study. Mrs. Ahchioglu is a law firm. You know that it is well-established case-law of both the Council of State and the Court of Auditors to ask for a thorough, specific study when you are cutting wages and pensions. Why don't you, Mrs. Ahchioglu? Of course you know your obligation. Let me tell you why. Because for a year and a half you've been negotiating, it's supposed, hard and proud, but on the scale. The IMF tells you to cut 10, you say no, we five. Well, that's not how it works. If there is no study to show us what the Katorugalou law has rendered, and how the insurance system will come out in the cycle of sustainability, you are doing absolutely nothing. And let me accept that the IMF is the bad thing now that this fairy tale and this dragon is not going anywhere. Come on, the IMF is the bad one. What are you doing as a government? Have you ever seriously studied the pension solution? What are the results? Within two years you have cut down, gentlemen and subsidiary three times. Is that possible? But there is the way, there is salvation, there is the path of all this. It's what Cyprus did. Yesterday, the President of the Republic of Cyprus, Mr Anastasiades, announced - carefully - an increase in the first quarter of the current year of the Cypriot economy, GDP, 3.3%. ELSTAT, in our place, announced for the first quarter of 2017 a recession of 0.5%. And so, we are the only eurozone country that has been in recession in 2016 and so far in 2017. All this, dear Mr Chakalote, when the oil is at $45 the barrel - it is historically low - and when the incoming tourism in Greece was in historically high, rising. In other words - and I am ending this - I predict, ladies and gentlemen, that you will have a future when you leave the government in one way or another. You will be invited to the amphitheatres of foreign universities such as your other colleague Mr Varoufakis - who would explain how he closed the banks and how he dismantled the economy - to teach how you kept and put a country in the recession with these two comparative data, the history of low oil and the historical high tourism. Ladies and gentlemen, Potami considers the articles in Memorandum 4 to be extremely unconstitutional. Or do you want to call it something else? How do you want us to say, SYRIZA Members, your second memorandum? As you wish. Articles 1, 2, 15 and 58 are unconstitutional. Beware, dear friends and dear Members of SYRIZA and ANEL, you are not every word of the Constitution, but every word of the memorandum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u115	The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Mandas, has the floor. Then the Minister will speak, Mrs. Ahchioglu. Here, Mr. Mada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, I think that in many aspects of Parliament's debate, hypocrisy goes beyond what is extremely difficult and - I would venture to say - cheap arguments. Secondly, I would like to say that on the legal side I will raise two issues. You know I'm not a lawyer, but I think I can say that. The S.H.E.P.'s Plenary Session 668/2012 and 2287/2015 have considered that in cases of adverse financial conditions and where it appears that the State is unable to provide sufficient funding, the legislature is not excluded and the cuts made in the context of a public expenditure reduction programme are not in breach of the provisions of Article 25 of the Constitution on the principle of proportionality. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Please, I didn't interrupt anyone. Furthermore, on page 15 of the Scientific Council Report, it is noted that it should be weighted in this respect if the proposed reductions disturb the fair balance that must exist between, on the one hand, the infringement of the pension as an asset protected by the relevant article and, on the other hand, the financial interest. I repeat, it has to be weighed. I'm saying this to say the arguments on our side. I mean, firstly, that unfortunately Mr. Voridis started with a lie and I don't want to leave that unanswered. The lie was that all pensions would be cut off. Mr. Vorides knows two things very well. The first is that we are talking about retired people who have a personal difference, and they are much less than half. So the rest of the pensioners will not be affected by these measures. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Listen to me as I heard you. Very carefully, you will listen to me! Secondly, the recalculation of pensions will also give rise to positive personal differences, which will go hand in hand for five years. They will be paid to retired people, in other words. It says it very clearly in the bill. I am not saying in any way that these measures are not tough measures, they are not very difficult measures, especially for layers and social groups that are primarily of interest to the Radical Left. But, ladies and gentlemen, let us consider in terms of reality, in terms of truth, and in terms of truth where this country has been, where this country has been, so long been, what a struggle we have fought for in the first half of 2015, how we have been at the end of the wall with the pistol on the top literally, how we have been doing the July 2015 compromise and how we have been struggling since then with grief, with perseverance, as much care as we can - with all the care that we can do as we can - with a very great deal of care, but what we can do at this difficult time to open a path to the final exit from the committee and the Memorandums. That's what this is about. There are no need here for conveniences, neither are we easy with ourselves nor with the world. We're talking to him honestly and we're saying yes, we're taking very difficult steps, but if the evaluation didn't close, just tell me a little, what exactly? You are forgetting two things, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, you forget what Mr Paradoxopoulos also pointed out, that for the first time we have achieved these countermeasures, which you are taking, but which, certainly, no one disputes that - they have a neutral financial effect. You may say anything about their targeting, about one thing, about the other, but that's for sure. They activate if we're within the targets, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u117	As long as we're within the targets, and so long as strangers agree. Say it all.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u118	Mr. Voridis, don't tell me things that you know I know. I'm saying it very clearly. Therefore, since we are within the objectives, measures and countermeasures are being activated and there can be no other way than a mechanism for this. There can be no other way than agreement that this is the assessment rather than the parallel one. Finally, Madam President, I would like to say that in this very difficult effort we have an absolute consciousness, all of which are part of the government's majority, that it is a difficult battle, that it is not over here. The conclusion of the agreement, which we hope will be made as soon as possible, perhaps on the 22nd month, may indeed include the arrangements for debt and we think we are opening up a small one, and I will say that under very tough conditions, too, we can finally get out of the committee and from the memoranda and work very hard to set up the country on its feet and actually give the people a visible hope. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u119	For five minutes, Mr Ahtsoglou, the Minister for Labour has also spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u120	Ladies and gentlemen, I will confine myself to answering the arguments of constitutionality and unconstitutionalism put forward by Members who spoke before and not in political comment, contrary to what many of the previous speakers have done. I'll start with pension arrangements. Taking into account the opinion of the Court of Auditors and the Scientific Service of the Parliament, we consider that there is no question of unconstitutionality, firstly, because the scope of the imposed measure is of course demarcated. It is well known that pension measures will not affect about two-thirds of pensions, while 18%, which refers to the law, is the upper limit, it is the 'tank', it is not what is going to happen to the other pensioners who may see some interference in their personal disparity. In this sense, therefore, and Mr Vorides' position on a general reduction of 18% in pensions is not accurate. The mezzanine is much lower. Subsidiaries are also included in the 18% ceiling.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u121	For everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u122	No, I'm sorry, 18% isn't everybody's business. Again, I would like to say that, for subsidiary services, the regulation only concerns personal differences from supplementary pensions, it does not concern a horizontal cut. That's clear. Secondly, with regard to the cumulative result: we therefore consider that there is no question of a cumulative effect as it had seen, for example, the Council of State in the judgment - a pilot for pension arrangements for Mr.4387, which was found to be unconstitutional, because it imposed horizontal cuts in a retroactive nature and which you voted on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u123	Law 4093!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u124	Excuse me, you are absolutely right, correcting: No.4093 of 2012.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u125	Refill.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u126	In relation to the cumulative effect of the measures, this is not the case because positive measures, such as the reduction of the HPAI, the reduction of the solidarity levy, the reduction of participation in the medical expenses, the rental subsidy, etc., are to be reduced or nullified in some cases the burden that may occur for the particular category of pensioners. Third, the measure is adopted in view of the higher purpose of the public interest, as is apparent from the general part of the Statement of Justification. I recommend to Mr Vorides that he go a little further on the text and see that we are talking about the necessary condition for the adoption of substantial measures to regulate the Greek public debt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u127	But that's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u128	No, I'm suggesting it's going up a little bit. You've come down a little bit below talking about starting the conversation. Come up a little bit, in the first paragraph. The measure is therefore adopted in view of this higher purpose of regulating the Greek debt. The purpose of the write-off of the debt and exiting the board is the reason for the higher public interest, which the court should take into account, if these issues are set to take a decision on their constitutionality. Fourthly, in relation to the question of proportionality, given the highest objective, the measure respects the principle of equal distribution of burdens between old and new pensioners from the restructuring of the pension system and the principle of solidarity between generations as enshrined in Article 25(4) of the Constitution. Fifth, it respects the principle of equality, unlike L.4093/2012. Let me tell you then that the Council of State considered that law unconstitutional, because it had retroactive effect first and secondly, it did not apply uniform rules on pension benefits for pensioners, which is what Law No.4387 of 2016 does - and now I am saying the right law. The measure is not directly applicable and relates to 2019. Therefore, we do not think that there is a question of the sudden nature that the decisions of the Council of State usually consider to be causing problems with the constitutionality of the measures. In this sense it is not a “eye” measure. Measures with eye were the laws of 2010, 2011 and 2012 with horizontal cuts of a retroactive character. In relation to the argument about the constitutionality of Article 58 on the taxation of the levy, I think there is confusion here. You confuse taxation with insurance contributions. Article 58 sets the basis for calculating the contributions, as the legislator has interoperable power to do. The provision does not impose tax, it is not a tax provision. The provision does not define taxable income. It is inaccurate that it is not deducted from taxable income. That's not what the layout does.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u129	What's he doing?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u130	The provision lays down the basis for calculating the contributions. It's not a tax provision. I now come to the question of the mechanism and the anticipation of the achievement of the budgetary objective and the timing of the implementation of the positive measures and the powers of the legislation that exist there, in Article 15. Firstly, the Scientific Service of Parliament said that the legislative authority of the Minister for Finance for the entry into force of tax positive measures does not conflict, i.e. there is no question of a conflict better, to put it this way - because in the end it is the court that judges - there is no question of constitutionality in relation to Article 78(4) for the time of validity...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u131	I'll come, don't worry. For the time of validity.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u132	But are you kidding us now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u133	Not at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u134	Doesn't it say there's, in so far as it's spreading?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u135	Mr. Javarra, please. Leave it, if you know there is no dialogue at this point.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u136	I'll be there, Mr. Javarra. With regard to the entry into force - Mr Javarra, it would be nice to hear - Article 78(4) says that there is no question, because the entry into force of the tax countermeasures is governed by the law. The Minister of Finance with his ministerial decision will simply see the implementation of the measures. We are therefore going through the question of readjustment, because that is the problem you are saying, which the Scientific Service of Parliament says in relation to the adjustment of positive tax measures, there can be an issue of unconstitutionality with regard to Article 78(4). As is clear from the interpretation of the Constitution, the adjustment measure, if necessary, for positive measures - which we consider to be extremely unlikely to happen given the rather certain achievement of the budgetary objectives - is just as much as necessary to achieve the budgetary objectives. No more, no less. From this point of view, the Minister for Finance will not have the discretion to have a problem with Article 78 of the Constitution, because the adjustment will only be as much as necessary to achieve the objectives. The same with regard to which positive tax countermeasures will be chosen if - which is extremely unlikely - the budgetary objectives are not achieved: the adjustment will be carried out in the same way as all positive tax measures. So there will be no discretion there for the Minister of Finance, so that there will be a problem with regard to the legislative authority described in the provision of Article 15. We therefore consider it unlikely that tax countermeasures should be reduced, given the sureness of achieving the budgetary objectives. Impossible we also consider unconstitutional, given just the automatic adjustment...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u137	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u138	So there is no question of constitutionality from our side because...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u139	Mr. Javarra, please. We're not making a decision now. You've had your arguments for six years. Let them be heard by the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u140	I'll be done. So there is no question of unconstitutionalism because, if necessary, the adjustment - which will not be necessary - will be automatic and discretion will not be omitted to the Minister of Finance so that there is a question of unconstitutionality with Article 78. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u141	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate under Rule 100(2) of the Rules of Procedure on the objection of unconstitutionality has been concluded. Accepting the objection of unconstitutionality, please rise. [[Responding to the objection, Members present in the Responsibility]] Evidently the few of them were raised. The objection of unconstitutionality is therefore rejected. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, before entering the list of speakers, I would like to inform you and those who are following us that today, 17 May, has been established as an International Day against Homophobia. The reason for this particular date is that on 17 May 1990 homosexuality ceased to be considered a disease by the World Health Organisation. On 19 January 2006, the European Parliament, by a overwhelming majority, recognised the symbolism and importance of this day for the whole world and Europe. Homophobia, as we know, is a set of ideas, ideological practices and behaviours that express hatred and aversion of people who disagree with the sexual orientation of others. I think that this hostility and disapproval, which is generalized in our country, towards the homosexual community is a form of racism. So homophobia is racism. We therefore believe - and we must stress this one day - that we are against discrimination based on ethnic and racial origin, religious and political beliefs, national and social origin, and on sexual orientation and gender identity. We hope that this policy will soon become a hegemony ideology throughout the world. The House therefore needed to mention this day because it has often faced racism. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed with the list. As the previous President has announced, there will be speakers, but parliamentary representatives will also be involved. You should all be here. I will invite you in turn, because tomorrow the majority of the ministers, the majority of the parliamentary representatives, the heads of the parties, cannot be accumulated, because that is why he will not speak of a person. So we start according to our list of speakers from the first circle and with Mr Antonios from the SYRIZA. Please, ladies and gentlemen, be quiet. At the moment - and I hope it will be maintained, if we are all consistent - time is seven minutes. Mr. Antoniou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, by listening yesterday to the representatives of counter-population, but also today to the rapporteurs, particularly on the side of the New Democracy and the Democratic Reconciliation, one can see a slump and satisfaction as if their own policy and responsibility for all the sufferings of the country have been justified over time to be the current government. In the collective consciousness of the Greek people, however, it has been definitively and irrevocably recorded and it has become certain who is responsible for the situation that the Greek society has been experiencing for over seven years, in other words, the economic and social destruction of the country. This is not going to change as much attempt to distort reality as if you were to retire. Your policies were the ones that bankrupt the country. Your policies and not ours were the ones that raised the debt with timeless accumulated deficits, in times of high growth. In other words, in short, you have passed the debt squabble in the Greek society. You have created a client state and a favorable system. You - and not us - fueled and served corruption and complexity. Your own executives and your own funds injected the money from the "black Funds" of "SIEMENS", armaments, the Olympic Games. The bills are still coming. You shared CEDEFOP's money in friendly media to have political support, increasing health expenditure in more than 85 billion years of time - it means 1/4 of debt - to the benefit of an economic elite who was practicing this money. You, and not us, were giving air-guaranteed loans to SME owners and your own entrepreneurs, again to have their own political support. Your own parties owe banks credit and unscrupulously. First pay the EUR 400 million you owe the banks, so that you can have one credibility, the minimum in your word. You have reached a record of unemployment, you have dropped GDP and made the country poor in a quarter. You wasted the insurance funds over time with the interest-free deposits previously in the Bank of Greece, then with the Stock Exchanges, the structured bonds and you finished them with the PSI. You have reduced pensions eleven times, and you could list for hours what you have done exactly, what economic crimes you have committed in that country. You, too, were the ones who, when the government was negotiating, said to close the evaluation with so many measures and so much of what the lenders asked. You questioned the financial results of our sound financial management and predicted the activation of the cut. You do the same for '17 and for '18, for the next commitments that the country has. And when we gave the only thirteenth pension to the low pensioners, you "carved" to us to the lenders and said that the Greek Government was doing unilateral actions and then, since you did not vote, the Chief of New Democracy and Mrs. Gennimata were struggling about who will share more than the primary surplus of '16, knowing in advance that this is not technically possible. You are now pulling our fingers on us, because we are bringing a final agreement, a difficult one, but which is finally taking us to the clearing and at the end of the tough comitology, an agreement with a neutral financial result, if we consider the negative and positive measures. As far as negative measures are concerned, we will take the burden of responsibility in order to get the country out of the deadlock you have created with your policies, we will take the burden of responsibility to take the country out and with difficult measures from this situation. But at least you vote for the positive. Because I cannot understand the reason why you will not vote for the reduction in VAT on agricultural supplies from 24% to 13%.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u143	There's a announcement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u144	That you will not vote for the tax harmonisation of parliamentary compensation with all other Greek taxpayers. That you are not going to vote on the provisions of Article 65 in order to operate the law on the extrajudicial system of debt regulation of companies with more than four hundred thousand indebted enterprises. That you will not vote for the housing allowance involving six hundred thousands of middle and low income households, as well as unemployed and vulnerable social groups. That you will not vote for the Baby Care Programme, with the founding of a thousand eight hundred young nursery stations and an extension of the beneficiaries from ninety to thirty-five thousand pre-school children. That you will not vote for the extension of school meals to over 50% of the school population, which applies to almost all European countries. That you will not vote for the 40% increase in child benefits, first, second and third, in order to combat infertility. That you will not vote for the increase in the Public Investment Programme in order to strengthen the funds for rural development, energy upgrading and strengthening the appropriations for development law. I do not list all the positive things, the ENPI, the reduction of the solidarity levy, the reduction of taxes on natural persons and businesses, the reduction of participation in pharmaceutical expenditure. Ladies and gentlemen, the agreement we are bringing today to Parliament is an integrated agreement, which takes us out of the hard commission, puts us on the money markets in view of the significant divergence in the ten-year and five-year bonds and with definitive regulation and debt write-downs, which you considered to be viable and simply what you were calling for were sustainability certificates. The story, ladies and gentlemen, will be written. The facts we live may not have the ability to see in time a history of what it means. The story will write that the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK were the ones who bankrupt the country and put us in the memoranda. It will also write that it is the current government that is finally getting us out of the committee. That doesn't change, no matter how much double-collapsing argument you've been recruiting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u145	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-nine students and students and three educational attendances from the 2nd High School of Leivada. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Bakoyannis has the floor now, and we wish her all the best.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u146	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin my speech by congratulating you on the enthusiasm with which you applauded the pension cut, which you will be voting on shortly. It was really touching. Ladies and gentlemen, if the third inappropriate memorandum, which was passed in the summer of 2015, led to the division of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and the loss of the parliamentary majority, the fourth memorandum leads to the absolute loss of contact between the Radical Left and the abolition of all left-wing myths of the last thirty years. I want to explain in a few words politically how I see the case. You have started, ladies and gentlemen, with the first myth, which we have heard all these years. Some of us, trying and fighting for truth and responsibility, have always been against the story of the left social sensitivity: We, the great right or the central right, were bad. We were socially analgesic, no sign of sensitivity. Instead, you were sensitive to the weak, you were interested in the popular layers, the people’s family, the people who had low, low income or no income. That was a battle of years. I remember, ladies and gentlemen, in the second Memorandum where most of you were: outside, in Syntagma square, with the 'Indignated'. Then it was the time of delusion. It was a time when we folded memoirs. It was a time when we'd hit the bullies and dance the markets. It was another time ago, many years ago. But time has passed, ladies and gentlemen, and it is time for the truth. I sincerely want to address the conscience of each of you. I personally have voted for me, and I know how difficult it is to vote on them. I've also negotiated personally, and I know how you can negotiate. I would therefore like to ask you two, three things which, in my opinion, are very important. You are coming, ladies and gentlemen, with this memorandum, that, you, the SYRIZA - ANEL, and you are cutting 3,400 euros from each household. You are cutting off the tax on medical services. From whom, ladies and gentlemen? Of those who need it more than anything, than those who are not rich to go to private medical centers, but those who need their medicine and are usually retired. The heating allowance is EUR 58 million. You'll tell me: "Are you crazy? Is that what you're being garnished? The heating allowance’? Ladies and gentlemen, anyone who has made Evrytania MEP or when some colleagues are in Florina know very well that the one who gets today, with the scissors of incomes, is the one who has no heat, but no other chance of warming up. It is therefore extremely important. Social benefits: Cut child benefit. There's no one here from the ANELs. I remember crocodile tears for the many children. Child benefit, ladies and gentlemen? Do children not need help and support or the costs of children have been eliminated during your days? Cut the unemployment benefit from the youngest who were hoping to find a place in the labour market. You're also cutting off the indemnity allowance. Would you like me to translate that to you, ladies and gentlemen, why perhaps Greeks are a difficult language and some people don't know what will mean in vain? Ladies and gentlemen, he will say total poverty. Absolute poverty! That'll be in vain. And you're cutting that. Is it right for someone to ask you: 'Well, boy, from all this money, did you find the socially sensitive?' Cut the special payrolls. Today, from the outside, in the Constitution, it's a huge group of people who protest. You have police officers, ladies and gentlemen, to guard the House in this House, when the President was unfortunately shouting 'parents, guards, guards', and out where these people should protect Greek citizens, us, the people who have property, the people who fight against organised crime. These people are cutting off the money, but you ask them to protect you as much as they can. So the first myth that was devastated is the myth of social sensitivity. The second myth is the myth of negotiation. You have negotiated, it says, hard, too hard, so hard that what the International Monetary Fund asked for has taken it but it has taken more. Why did you say good evil, let's give him a little more. When you negotiate, ladies and gentlemen, do you not see the little letters of your negotiation? Give me an explanation. The delay cost us 2 billion and 2.7 billion the cuts. Mercy, ladies and gentlemen! Two billion would have escaped if you had a very basic sense of responsibility and had finished this negotiation from the start. Third and last myth that collapsed: This whole story is a one-way street. There's no other way. Well, it's not a one-way street, ladies and gentlemen. And that is what I want the Greek people to understand once and for all. One-way would be if all governments had your own incapacity and ruled in your own way. It's not a one-way road to reach and say 2.7% growth and ELSTAT to come today and say 1.8%. Why, ladies and gentlemen, do we not have growth? Why don't you dare say today that you guarantee growth? Because you couldn't bring development program, because you couldn't bring investments, because you stopped every investment by blocking it. You voted for it, you applauded it, and then the master said it was the Greek forest, and then the Minister responsible told SKAI the day before yesterday that he did not believe it. When you do not believe what you do, when you do not want to bring investments, when you have no confidence in the private economy, when today we are talking about the cost of the worker who receives 20,000 in Greece is 37 000 and in Cyprus it is 26 000, ladies and gentlemen, there will be no investment in Greece. Understood. From now on, you don't have the fig sheet either. There will be no contact with society for the Radical Left, because you have now sent a message. Your group will be united in the fourth memorandum. It's possible by applauding you'll all vote. In Greek society, however, you will not be able to leave. I will close by saying that in 2012 you had a banner down here on the bars of the Parliament saying "Destroy the country, leave now". There are five years behind, ladies and gentlemen, for you today.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u147	The floor is seven minutes from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, a moment ago Mrs Bakoyannis taught us a Greek lesson, and she explained to us what the word "nephew". We, Mrs Bakoyannis, do not know this word simply etymologically as a word of the ancient Greek language. We know this word from our family and social forum and you will allow us to know more about it. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] For months now you have been trying to pressure us and you are urging us to vote on the measures proposed by the lenders to get to the second assessment. Today there is something paradoxical: in addition to the measures we bring back the countermeasures that are unknown to you. For the first time since the country entered the memoranda, the Greek government is negotiating and trying to balance the situation. You do not vote for this and you do not support it, as you did not vote for the pensioners' allowance, as you did not vote for the extrajudicial compromise that will give a breath to thousands of small and medium-sized Greeks. If, instead of the countermeasures or the EUR 600 million, which our government gave to pensioners at the end of the year, we were bringing in a bill to favour a specific financial elite, you might be voting on both hands. You've done this repeatedly in the past. However, when it comes to ordinary citizens, when it comes to ordinary pensioners, when it comes to measures that ease Greek and Greek people, then you find it difficult, then you are against them. So you are voting against today measures for housing allowances to families with up to EUR 20,000, which is about six hundred thousand households. You are voting against measures for kindergartens, which relate to families with an income of up to EUR 27,000, the middle class, that is. You are voting against the programmes for the extension of school meals, involving five hundred thousand children. You are voting against the reduction in VAT on agricultural supplies from 24% to 13% on agricultural development. You are voting against the reduction of HPAI to small and medium-sized incomes, to small and medium-sized assets. You are voting against the reduction in the tax on profits, from 29% to 26%, and also against the tax on Members with the rest of the citizens. That's our difference. You have learned to support an economic and political elite, the economically powerful ones. You have delivered an economy bankrupt because you have consciously formulated a distorted economic and social process, supporting the oligarchy of the place with trade-agreements, with a gloomy economy, but always for the benefit of the few. We, on the other hand, believe that we need to see a different path of development, with the expansion of the economy of income and wealth. We are, indeed, in favour of weaker groups. We call 'yes' to increase productivity and to productive investment. But our goal, the central objective, is not only changes at the top, but also changes at the production base. A prerequisite, in order to carry out these changes, is to strengthen the productive forces with new social and productive relationships, with a break with the unacceptable bankrupt economic structures that the opposition has created, supported and supported. Obviously, we're taking tough measures. We are, however, trying to balance them. By voting against this balance and countermeasures today, you actually say to two and a half million Greeks living below or near the poverty line that they do not need, we do not want, we do not like, we do not like, we do not care. You once again declare by your vote that you remain supporters and stylists of an economic oligarchy. We want to move on with society upright so that we can get out of the crisis. We are interested in society, its structure, its foundations, its action and its structure. For your part, unfortunately, you feel no shame and no responsibility for the situation in the country today. You do not feel any shame and no responsibility for the deterioration of the quality of our lives, for our young people who have been in the middle of the crisis unprepared and defenseless and who have fled abroad. You do not feel any shame and no responsibility you have put society on the sidelines with discrimination, anxieties, rousphetti, corruption, complexity, and scandals. You feel no responsibility and no shame and want to come back. Resurrect why? To complete bankruptcy and destruction. We tell the Greek people the truth, without beauty. Times are hard. The measures are really difficult, we know that. But we know that this situation ends in 2018. You know that, too. That's why you're asking for elections. Why can't you think that SYRIZA is the one to get the country out of the crisis? You're only chalking on the idea. But when this country comes out of the crisis with our own government, you will be increasingly immersed in your political misery and in your ideological and political confusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u149	Mrs Christophilopoulou has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, after many months of delay and the assumption, at least from the leadership of the Ministry of Finance, the evaluation was closed and the fourth memorandum came, a fourth memorandum without legalisation - because you do not have such a mandate or have a mandate from the Greek people - and 4,9 billion euros come to be added to the backs of the Greek people in addition to the 12.5 billion euros which loaded the third Memorandum of Government Tsipras - Kammenos. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that the government has lost every trace of dignity and credibility. No one believes you anymore, because in the programme of Thessaloniki, which you placed on the thirteenth pension, the abolition of HIS, the EUR 751 minimum wage, you were believed by many of our fellow citizens, as was the duty-free rate of 12 thousand, Minister of the Economy. In the parallel programme that you have again placed - a little more limited, but you have again pointed out - to everyone that they wanted to hear, they believed you less. Today in countermeasures no longer believe you, because deception has its limits. Because Mr. Tsipras keeps lying. I didn't have any lies. The kind Pinocchio would be jealous of himself. I would like to explain, ladies and gentlemen, Alexis Tsipras, an interview in the Editorial Journal of 25 January 2017. "We have stated in the most emphatic way that there is no way of legislating a single euro further measures than the agreement provides for, that is, the third memorandum and much more for the period after the end of the programme." Today we are legislating the fourth Memorandum without funding. "Others..." - Mr. Tsipras continues - "... the request for additional measures to be adopted and, indeed, under a sect is not only foreign to the Greek Constitution. It is also a stranger to the rules of the Republic, it is a stranger to the European acquis," said Mr. Tsipras and brought in countermeasures to the bill under a cult. Watch out. Under a cult there is no law, says the current legal opinion. There are two sects here. One objective cult that is to catch the country's primary surpluses continuously and not for once the 3.5%, but another heresy. A cult should say yes to the International Monetary Fund and the European Union with the shameful Article 15. So you're taking countermeasures for then and you're crying today. Mr Tsakalotos and the colleague who came down from Stepma for child poverty, why did they not make themselves due? From the law you voted on and you brought the agreement to Parliament, you had the right of last year's surplus to give it. Why don't you give it today? Don't they need a pile today? Do you think 2021 will be needed? Well, of course, if you're in things, they're definitely gonna need it, but you won't. Because we understand you, as I said before, most citizens. Continuity of lies: Catrugalu insurance, Ahchioglu now. Mrs Ahtsioglou has actually been very experienced, she has heard all the misunderstandings from the political introductors of pseudology. What do we have in the insurance realm? Remember the numbers again? I will say this very little not to tire you: EUR 360, you say that would go up to the 500 words of the European Union, the heavy mail Hardouvelis. Because when we legislated on the EUR 40 billion, Minister, the cuts that you said nicely, there was a deficit of EUR 35 billion. for the period 2004-2009 I have not heard you speak. Because, of course, you want to hide it, because you have the support behind it. There was a deficit of EUR 35 billion, Minister, and you hid it. Lucky? I don't think so. Today, therefore, from the 500 million mail Hardouvelis you have added. I heard Mrs Ahtsoglou this morning just telling us about one third of the pensioners. No falseer! Now let's go see the Memorandum three with the Katorugalou law together. It has burdened the insurance company for 3.7 billion without ensuring its viability. Because we told you then, Minister, that we in the Democratic Incorporation, if you were to bring a viable insurance policy and have had a serious dialogue, would be backing up. But you only received EUR 3.7 billion in the first period without sustainability. In this, are the four hundred thousand low pensioners who abolished the CSCE that was red for us, because we were seriously negotiating. You cut it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u151	You voted for him.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u152	We did not vote the Katorugalou law, I remind you, for those who say we voted for it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I would like to have your tolerance, like the previous ones, for a minute or two at most. In addition to the third memorandum, today we come to add EUR 2.1 billion - I mean, for insurance only - from the 18% cuts and - listen, from the tax on contributions and contributions to the levy! I mean, you're fighting everything there is and everything that's survived from free traders, traders, lawyers, engineers, farmers. It's not the death of the trader, it's the death of every small and medium-sized activity you've done. Contributions are unbearable, ladies and gentlemen. And I will briefly go through the other lie of Mr. Tsipras and Mrs. Ahtsoglou. Alexis Tsipras speech to the Central Committee of SYRIZA: "We have succeeded in ensuring the country's return to work normality, first and foremost by reintroducing collective negotiations". I don't go on because I don't have time for Mr. Tsipras' speech. So I say the following three things: First, legislate what we legislated in 2011 and what Mrs Ahtsoglou has said is not the case. And it is not because the 2011 legislation was talking about the Medium-term Programme. If the legislator really wanted to say about the medium term, he would say it or say it. And the word within the law of 2011 is the word "suspension" rather than "repeal". So you come and repeat this by the end of the Programme, that is August 2018. You didn't do anything! You have opened the door - listen, ladies and gentlemen - the so-called left-wing government in collective redundancies. Because with a simple call to the Supreme Labour Council, employers are free to fire. That's what you vote on. That's what you vote on tomorrow. Go to the workplace, go to the trade unions, go to the businesses that may not have a union, go and tell the workers that this is what you are voting on. That's not all you vote for. You are also voting on the lock out from the back door, as I said in committee. Why are you doing this? Because here there is a case-law that is completely anti-government and Mrs Ahtsioglou knows about it as a lawman. And this caselaw says that the courts are firmly in favour of those objections from workers who wanted to work and were prevented from strike. So the courts tell the employer that 'you have the right to redress'. What does the SYRIZA - ANEL Government do with this fourth memorandum? It opens the door, because it creates accelerating the process for the lock out through a fast track legitization. I'm hanging up, ladies and gentlemen. All of this is the fact that the country cannot thus come out of the memoranda, so it cannot come out of growth, because we have a recession. Mr Tsakalotos, do not say again as you said in your first speech to the committee that 'we are in favour of growth and you are in recession'. You still have a recession. You have received one single development, and you are still in recession, and there you will remain, because if there is no national agreement from another House and another negotiation, the country cannot come out of the crisis and the memoranda.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u153	Mr. Armalene has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Christophilopoulou at the edge of her speech actually confirmed that the multi-legislative plan that we are voting on tomorrow restores collective labour contracts after August 2018. It is not established in the medium-term and during or at the end of the medium-term programme until 2021, Mrs Christophilopoulou, the reintroduction of collective agreements. It is established immediately after the completion of this programme, which is August 2018. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy, with a sad plight of the Democratic Integration and the PASOK, played and played its change within these two days, so that it could reverse the course taken by the country. In this battle one more time he lost. I said it yesterday. Firstly, he expected the first assessment not to be closed and the first evaluation was successfully closed. Secondly, he expected the cutter to be implemented and formulated the media, the Anti-Civilisation-friendly and, more generally, the opposition, that in 2016 the wage and pension cut will begin, because we would not catch the 0.5% surplus in April 2017. Thirdly, wait for the second assessment not to be closed. The second assessment is now closed, ladies and gentlemen. Fourthly, he waited and said there would be no debt debate. The debt is not only being discussed - and it is being discussed by all the international actors involved in this - but it is a matter of days, either on 22 May in the Eurogroup - and it was discussed again on Monday evening in the Euroworking Group - or a few days later, in the first days of June, to close this case. So about what New Democracy has said all this time, not only did it destroy and continues to destroy, but it was flawed by the real events. We are told that we are voting today on a fourth memorandum without funding. Ladies and gentlemen, you are deliberately confusing the word 'immemorial' with the word'medium-term'. We are tabling financial data, measures and countermeasures for after 2019, 2020, 2021 and, therefore, we are not talking about a new loan contract that requires a memorandum. We are talking about the medium-term and the budgets we make in measures and countermeasures. Secondly, there is, of course, no funding. How will there be funding after 2018 by lenders, when the country will be funded by markets? Have you ever heard of a country with a memorandum before and at the same time borrowed from the markets? Where did these arguments come from again? You tell us, with variations, that we are loading the country and society with new measures, others say 9.2 billion, others say 14 billion, a few months ago you told us 86 billion, etc. You forget, however, that with the surpluses you had agreed only - mail Hardouvelis and everything else, the unfamiliar Samara - Venizelos - 3% for 2015, 4.2% for 2016, 4.5% for 2018, we would take measures, i.e. taxes and expenditure cuts, over 20 billion. Over 20 billion were saved because we did not agree on these surpluses. In any case, this is the first time in the seven years of the memoranda that we have managed to get through the tough negotiation of concrete countermeasures. What you say - and you repeat it, unfortunately, even after the debate on the committees - is that the countermeasures are liqueurs and that in order to be implemented there is a need for surpluses of over 5.5%, it is the air that has been cut off, ladies and gentlemen of the counterpopulation. Because it has been shown with certain arguments that measures and countermeasures are only applied with the 35% surplus. Together with the countermeasures, together with the social solidarity allowance, together with the reforms that have gradually begun in education and public health, we lay the foundations for a social state that has never existed in that country, there has never been in your days, even in the era of fat cows, in the 2000-2009s, where there have been stable growth rates. Because the distortion is too great, I would like to stress again. Firstly, the reduction in pensions will only affect those who have a personal difference, i.e. about a third and a maximum of 18%. It won't hurt all pensioners. Secondly, countermeasures will relieve much of society and particularly the most vulnerable and weak strata. They will alleviate both pensioners and unemployed and low-paid and weaker and more vulnerable social and economic strata. I do not want to list them now, because these are enough countermeasures and they will be listed by the followers. I just want to say one. Along with the countermeasures we abolish tomorrow's duty free of Members' compensation, precisely because they have become a flag for some of the Members' privileges, which in fact have been at very high levels over the past years. There has been a gradual cut since 2013, and then slowly, we also made the cut in 2015 by 10%, and now we are moving on to the same level as the tax on Members' compensation - and we are right to move forward and move forward - with all other citizens. I want to see which of the opposition parties will vote for this provision. It's really interesting. So we pass today and tomorrow one of the last crabs before leaving the memorials. Our goal is not to bring back to the 2009 growth model. It is not the reintroduction at a time when the benefits of a particular economic elite of national contractors and national canals were sown. Our aim is a socially just development where wealth will spread throughout society, particularly in the weaker strata. Our aim is to have a political system of democracy, such a political system that is not intertwined, does not depend on hatred and corruption. It will, however, be a political system of a normal country where workers will work with dignity, pensioners, middle-stages, farmers, scientists, young people will be able to find themselves and recognise themselves in such a country. Indeed through this course to win the country's equal relationship bet within the European and global tradition that has already begun to be recognised positively. The entire international community is talking today about our country, thanks to the Greek Government's initiatives, in a very positive way even self-criticistic way about the very tough measures it has taken.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u155	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u156	I'm done. The IMF also said they were pessimistic from 2015 onwards, while they were over-optimistic that the previous government would make it. In us because they didn't politically agree with us, the lenders said they were pessimistic. They fell out. Those who hate destructive will fall out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u157	Mr Spyridon-Adonis Georgiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u158	Thank you very much, Madam President. I was listening to Mr. Armalene who, with such a surge, told us that the opposition would fall out, and I remember him when he was fighting in his constituency so as not to abolish the reduced VAT rates in the Aegean and that, if such a measure comes to the House, he would resign and leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u159	I never said that. Those are your words.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u160	Half of you have said the same thing. I begin first of all with observation number one that must not be dispersed. Mrs. Tyloridou has gone up in Step. I hadn't noticed her, I never heard of her. Welcome. And she was exemplified because Mrs Dora Bakoyannis told you that you may not know the word "nurse". And what Mrs. Tyloridou said: "We gentlemen know her from ourselves. We know her from our social side." You guys applauded it underneath. Mr Tsakalotos is a mess, he has 700,000 in BLACK ROCK. Mr. Stathakis, who's gone, has a couple of million. Mr Papadimitriou - I do not know whether he will understand me already - has, if I remember correctly, three or four million. They're fatal. Guys, there will be nothing wrong with the poor and you losers too! [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Don't interrupt me, please. If I lied, I'd be happy to. Mrs. Fotou yesterday talked to us about social benefits and aggregations which she will share with £100,000 in London. Mrs. Fotio and the arrays will never meet. So, yes, he can share of course high-size. But now I come to Mr Chakaloto. Mr. Chakatte, I really want to ask you. How do you feel, Minister, that a few years ago you were on that table out there - not in the parliament but outside - and you had a banner that said, "We don't owe, we don't pay." Behind Tsakalotus, Katrugalo and Varoufakis - and I don't remember who else - it was the banner. So you are now coming here to the House to introduce these terrible measures to your statement - they are very bad measures for some people, you said - to get parametric differences in debt management that will make it sustainable. What debt, ladies and gentlemen? Since we don't owe, we don't pay, Mr. Tsakalotus told us in the Indignant Square. To understand, then, that afterward you realized that you were lying. Are you up to ask for an apology from the Greek people you fooled him in the square? Oh, no. On the contrary, you came here after a year and told us at the press conference in Brussels and here that if it goes down the tax-free rate below 9,100 you - be careful what you said just now - you will resign from the Minister and then you will vote against the bill. Both! You will resign from Minister and you will vote against the bill. Honestly, Mr. Chakaloto, I ask you with great honesty. Do you feel like you're maintaining your dignity? Yesterday I saw you were pissed off at a trousers' phrase. Do you feel that you have completely lost your dignity in Greek society?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u161	I've answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u162	Most of all, she doesn't understand the damage you've done. Your statement of resignation has not only been heard by us and by those who see youTube here laughing at you. Do you know who's heard of her? The lenders. And you know what the lenders say? This Chakalotus, whatever he says doesn't matter, he loves his chair so much that he will finally sign it all. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Madam President, to keep my time. Ladies and gentlemen, because you are shouting at YouTube there is a video between me and Mr Vetta on Mr. Vetta's show in January. There Mr Vettas, like most of you, said: 'I do not vote for a tax reduction, I do not vote for a reduction in pensions'. I say to him, "Don't be exposed, son, you'll vote for it all. For you are so fond of your chair that you will vote for everything." He says to me, "Do we make a bet?" "We put it," I tell him. Of course, Mr. Vettas is voting for everything, like all of you who are shouting now. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] What about me? I didn't sell an antimony. I told the Greek people from the outset that we must respect our budgetary discipline. I didn't go to the square of the indignant. Mr. Barcas is yelling back. Mr. Barkas is another good case. Let me just say, you guys, you left-wing guys, you guys retreat to the blackmail. Question: How is it, Mr Barkas, that you come to the SYRIZA Parliament, that you do not swear to the Christian religious oath, why are you against and then go to the entire Barkas with a tie in your periphery? How's it going? How can you do both? How can you play left rebels and then go with the tie in the harbor? It's not both. Just what's going on is that you're nothing but people who're thirsty for was a post-mortem employee chair.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u163	Courses you can't do to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u164	I, Mr President, who interrupted me for the fourth time, when I changed a party, resigned from the Minister - not like Mr Tsakalotos, who did not resign - and resigned from the Member. Not like you who'll vote for it all. So don't touch me in your mouth. I have resigned both from a Member and from a Minister. You without a chair can't stand it. That's our difference. Because if you could withstand, you would remember all your way to the left, the anti-privatism, the anti-International Monetary Fund, the anti-memorandum, and today you would say 'no'. Today you say 'yes'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u165	I'll go to school later. You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u166	I would remind the House of a very well-known phrase of the past. Do you know what we were called? You told us "Yes to everything". Now that you say yes to everything, shall we turn it? Turn the punctual memory phrases of Kammenos from here, the 'four', is that what you want to do? But now we're going to Article 15. You know, Mr. Papadopoulos, I appreciate you because you are one of those who tell the truth, even unwittingly. He did the analysis before Mr. Voridis about the unconstitutionality and you flew from behind and what did you say? I'm showing Mr. Papadopoulos. You said 'We were asked by the IMF'. Well done, congratulations! Why, guys, does Tsipras swear me in every speech by twisting what I said "Georgiadis, who said about the glory of Tomsen"? Do you remember Tsipras always saying that? After Papadopoulos says "We cut off pensions, the IMF asked us". [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, please for one minute and for my holiday. Please, to keep your dignity, the next time Mr. Tsipras refers to my name, you will say "Mr. Tsipras, don't say it now, because now we cut pensions because the IMF asked us", as Mr. Papadopoulos said. If I don't blame Papadopoulos, all the others here will vote on Article 15. What's the new story? You're getting us out of the commission. Mr. Tsakalotus has not said so, he protects himself. Article 15 puts us on a standing committee because Article 15 says? That, after the completion of the programme and for the money that exceeds 3.5%, which is our money, because more than 3.5% are ours and with 3.5% we pay our debts, in our part, we have to get the signature of the International Monetary Fund for the issue of any ministerial decision on social policy by the Minister. If this is not a comitology, gentlemen, then what is the comitology? It is the most humiliating article, which has not dared to put any previous government in any previous memorandum, and you are voting for it, the people of the first time, who have played it for national independence. Human beings, that's normal. [[Noise and protests from the wing of SYRIZA]] People who were a life on the streets, against privatization, who were in the square of the indignant, against the memorial and for a parliamentary recompense, take away all ideology are human beings!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u167	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u168	Am I going to be ashamed of you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u169	Mr. Georgiadis, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u170	I'll be back in a minute. Now we're going to the Security Corps. Minister of Finance, I want your answer. Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Kammenos had promised to return 50% of the retrospectives on the basis of the decision of the Council of State on the officials of the Armed Forces and the Security Bodies. Mr. Kammenos from this Step said that he would be his first act as Minister and Mr. Tsipras had gone to the Council of State then a bracelet with Mrs. Constantopoulos - you forgot now, this lady who turns the channels and says Tsipras a traitor, for this lady I say - and Tsipras promised the officials of the Armed Forces that they would immediately give them the money. With this bill that you are voting on, you abolish the whole concept of retrospectives, you abolish the decision of the Council of State, you freeze wage promotions and you enter the so-called "personal difference", which we all know in the first articles of this Pensioners Bill that the personal difference we talked about here last year is that you put it to cut it where eventually it led. Minister, withdraw the special payroll article, put it into a sincere public debate and go to a normal wage for special wages as you should and not as you do, and of course apply the decision of the Council of State for the implementation of which New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis are committed. I conclude by saying that the image of your government is summarised hereafter: not only do you bring memorial to the House, Memorial 4, but you are all voting for it with both your hands as good children, forgetting your antimonetary past and celebrating even when you are cutting pensions. But now listen to the notebook. He'll love Voridis, who likes semantics. On Saturday night, Mr. Kammenos and Mr. Paulakis were celebrating the exact villa Mr. Kammenos lives in the southern suburbs of the country, from what I read today, with the escort even of Stamatis Gonides. Well done, Minister, you have celebrated why you are cutting off pensions, so socially sensitive you are, and so sad that you are bringing these terrible measures. Shame on you, fascist hypocrites!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u171	Madam President, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u172	Madam President, I ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u173	Wait, you want the floor now? Mr Georgiadis spoke personally for everyone, but I think it makes no sense. 'Cause then he'll return, and so on. What we need to keep is that Mr. Georgiadis wants you all more rebels, more left-wing, to be in the squares, to fly, to do, to vote against, that's what he wants. Well, it's not great, let him want man. What to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u174	Madam President, it has been mentioned to me and my constituency and I want a minute to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u175	Uh, that you went to a frugality, so what are you going to say, that you didn't go?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u176	Not just that, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u177	All right, you have the floor for a minute, Mr. Barca.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u178	What one says about me or any fellow SYRIZA MEP has to do with his face. The Vice-President and New Democracy officials have learned to speak "tacourata" from the past, they continue to speak "tecourata" and now. I regret a historic party such as the New Democracy, which wants to defend democracy, the democratic city, I really feel sorry for the new MPs and its former members, the old New Democracy democrats, who are lucky to be represented by people who, for all they cannot be proud of, are the defenders of democracy. It is well known that the positions of the Vice-Presidents of the New Democracy and the political leaders, those on the front line of the New Democracy, are well known. Madam President, I will not ask anyone to comment on the dress code. I imagine no one has the peculiarity of characterizing and telling someone what she's wearing. It's a choice. Generally speaking, I haven't asked anyone for an appointment in relation to what I'm wearing. Secondly, as far as my constituency is concerned, I will respect all the citizens, all the democrats, the Prespecies and the Prespecies and I will defend them all, apart from the fascists, but also those who are directly involved with fascism, they have a direct relationship with anti-democratic states, they have dedications from dictators. Madam President, we are defending democracy. I would like to remind you that the Internet is found by statements made by the Vice-President of the New Democracy, who is not only the current leader of the New Democracy, but also by many executives who are caring for them. Rejoice him! Congratulations! At least, this is not the historic party that Constantine Karamanlis created.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u179	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, twenty-eight students and students and four educational attendances from the Valura Messinia Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Pollack, do you want the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u180	The reason why I don't want him is that Mr. Georgiadis said about the common birthdays that we had with Mr. Kammenos at his house. Now that's bullshit, man. I take the floor for the word 'people'. [[Noise in the Chamber]] It is a man who gives him an order by the Chief of his Party and along with his neighbor asks questions to get German submarines more quickly and rewards - murmur now - with ministerial status, as he leaves his party to the next government. Man - and indeed the pitiful form - is he who, during the period when he is Minister, gives his partner, who have a joint company, advertising expenditure on the BLUE SKY channel through the CEDEFOP. That's a little man. It is a man who has in his office an employee named Theophilatos, a woman of a ketering and support services, who, through her sister's sister and her sister's husband, gives annual contracts of 160 and 150 thousand euros for maintenance and feedback to the hostels of CEDEFOP, who is responsible for her third party, the wife of the lady who is currently suing the new president of CEDEFOP. That's a little man! I can talk until night about your poorness. We're not tied to the chairs. We were worthy before we became ministers and MPs. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] At the end of our lives we will not be remembered because we are ministers or MPs. We will be remembered by the twelve thousand patients, whom we ourselves have handled, the eight thousand who have operated to date, we will be remembered by all the colleagues who have defended their rights, who will remember us. Ministries and parliamentarians are passive. Whatever you do in life, your work stays and we don't compare to the subject of humanity. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Man - for the last word - is he, who sees him destroying the left-hand story and returning to the spoon of government power and trying to muddle, smash, twist, twist the message that we are all the same. No, you've suffered allergy and lysagram that you've left the chairs for two years. We and tomorrow morning to leave, we have a way to live in this life. Some others don't. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Do you understand that, Mr. Vice President, an historic party that, instead of caramanism today, has the pleasures of Pattacos? Come on, smack of society.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u181	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u182	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u183	Mr President, my name has been mentioned to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u184	I would also like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u185	Good. We have a future. For two minutes, however, to close the matter and move on to work.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u186	Yes, Mr. President. Listen, Mr. Polakis, first of all I'm very pleased to read it today to the "Bimatos" may have made a mistake by the "Bimatos" - that in the end you did celebrate with Mr. Kammenos and Stamatis Gonidis, etc. Good for you. Congratulations. At the time you cut your pensions, you go out and have a party. But let us close this with the little ones. Here's who's 'a little man'. The one who writes before he becomes Minister "Oh, no Greeks wants traitors", I repeat, "Oh, no Greeks want to be traitors, time to distinguish the wilds from chickens" and now you vote "yes", Mr Polakis. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Question: Now that you are voting 'yes', according to your word and beautiful mandarin, are you 'kids'? You are. Let's go to second. Listen, Mr Colleague, who is a 'little person'. All that he said about CEDEFOP, about money, etc. I sued him to take and tell him in court and prove them, after he said that he has denounced them in Greek justice a hundred times, which justice as you know, no prosecution has ever exercised against me, nor even invited me to explain what you're saying. He's obviously judged them as nonsense, which they are. But listen to who's a 'little', ladies and gentlemen. I have to sue him with my wife to come to court to prove what he says and ask you to vote 'no' in the lifting of his parliamentary immunity. He's a "man" and a "kick" who's hiding. So, I told you many times -- don't get up on me and don't sell me a look. I show you in Greek society as you really are: A lot of heavy and chicken.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u187	Mr President, let me take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u188	Mr. Vorides has the floor. You'll talk later, Minister, in total.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u189	I don't say much. You know that. So now I tell you this, I say it calmly and I say it honestly and clearly. I now give you a chance to withdraw. Because your friend, who informed you of my alleged involvement in the matter of submarines and the allegedly put forward questions by me in Parliament on this issue, and indeed in the context of a scandal, and indeed in the context of pressure, has informed you of the mistakes. A primary conviction has already been given that this issue has to compensate me for EUR 40,000, so I now give you a chance. I, as you know, do not do personal attacks, such personal reports I don't do, you do. I'm giving you a chance. Now, you're going to call back what you said about me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u191	I shall take it, Mr Polakis, if you withdraw, that you are incorrectly informed, and I shall end it here. If you do not, I will consider that you know that you are saying something untrue and insist on his untrueness, insist on slandering me. But we won't have to talk here. I'll see you where we need to.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u192	Good. May I ask the Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u193	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u194	Minister, please listen to me. Don't repeat and happen to me every time this dispute between Mr. Georgiades and you. Right now, we have a very serious bill. I would ask you really to answer Mr. Voridis. Otherwise this ping - pong between you and Mr Georgiadis does not benefit the Chamber, it does not benefit the work that we are doing. I would ask you only to limit yourself to these very important things Mr Vorides has said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u195	I'm starting with Mr. Voridis. I've said it before. You were ahead and you didn't react. I said you two were asking questions about why he's stalling...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u196	Do you insist or not now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u197	Wait a minute. I have this briefing that you signed the questions with Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u198	You insist.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u199	If you didn't sign them, that's not the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u200	I told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u201	Because I have said so before and you were present, and then you did not react, I considered the information I had.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u202	So now I'm reacting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u203	If you hadn't signed it, Mr. Voridis, the reproach would obviously not apply. If you didn't sign it. The information I had, and I have said it in here before, and you were here, is that you signed with the person with whom you sit next door.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u204	Minister, you will allow me, because I was presiding at that time, underneath Mr Vorides, to say that he is not concerned with the case, but he cannot be heard or recorded in the Minutes. He said so then. But continue, please, soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u205	Let's go to the next one, which needs an answer. He wants the answer again, because I have given it, it is not written, it is not spreading and it is spreading, it is spreading the lies that Mr Georgiadis says. What's the reality? We caught a mechanism to try to falsify results. We checked him, corrected the counterfeiting, and I was sued by Mr Georgiadis and Mr Javaras for the misappropriation of a public document. Me, the Minister. And, at the same time, he's suing the employees who, on my own command, did this thing. I didn't ask anyone in the House. I've challenged them to take me with the government responsibility law to hear these in here. And not with immunity lifts, MP. Take me to the law, and I challenge you again, and I show you. Make the complaint go with the Ministers Responsibility Act, not with immunity waivers. As Minister, I did what I did. Second, they sue me. There is this in relation to me and while the Attorney-General - take note of what I am saying to you, and I will say with names and addresses as always - and with seven pages of reason - why there was a pre-examination for a flood - it says 'the case is not happening', a prosecutor named Karaflos, who was the one who filed the 'SIEMENS-OSE' case, the 270 million wagons that did not go to the rails, the prosecutor himself, who, before making the decision, was handling the international warrant and did nothing, the prosecutor himself in the paper sent by the prosecutor, first-hand, and said that the case is therefore 'I do not agree with the archiving', while there was a pre-examination of a document. It says 'I do not agree, prosecute three felonies and one crime'. That's what happened and we'll check this thing out. And we'll check this thing out. Mr. Georgiadis speaks of this lawsuit.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u206	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u207	No, wait a minute. Each one takes his own conclusions. Secondly, the evidence we have been to the prosecutor and which proves that at the time you were Minister - because you are talking about human beings - you were recruiting twenty-three people in particular, who were supposed to have been hired to the CEDEFOP, had been placed in your office, some of whom were paid late, because they never walked where they worked, which seems to have been paid - some continued on you, Mr Voridis, after which, their terms were renewed by those who were hired at that time by Mr Georgiadis - for this illegal recruitment has not been moved so quickly. What's my conclusion? They'll tell me I'm bad, they'll tell me I'm being unconstitutional, they'll tell me I'm judging where I'm not supposed to. That's the reality. Do you understand what the reality is? We're gonna break your little system. We're gonna break it. As much as you cry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u208	All right, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u209	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u210	No, no, Mr. Georgiadis. Mr. Triantafylides has the floor. Come on, Mr. Triantafylides.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u211	Mr President, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u212	It can't go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u213	Twenty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u214	No, not one. It can't go on. That's impossible. You don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u215	Mr Minister, if the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group agrees to vote on the Article 86 procedure which concerns us, we shall table it. Stand up and ask that SYRIZA vote 'yes', and we will table it. But if they vote 'no' then you lie.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u216	You don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u217	Pick up the signatures.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u218	And Minister of Justice, the Minister of Health, blames the justice for controlling it. Do you have anything to say?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u219	There is nothing in the Minutes that Mr Georgiadis says.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u220	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u221	All right, sit down. I said names.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u222	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u223	Mr. Triantafylides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u224	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, the New Democracy has indeed adopted the model of the operation of a multinational. This is its objective: 'Surreal politic'. We disagree with the measures - countermeasures, we support measures - countermeasures, we vote against measures - countermeasures, but if we become a gourmet - you say - we will only implement these measures, and so much more, because the countermeasures are 'fugs'. Unrepentantly clumsy! Power to be and whatever it is! They break from the deprivation syndrome of power loss and repetition between the far right and the center. Let's go to the beginning of 2016 to see the calendar of destruction, what the "Nostradames" of the end said, the unrepentant lovers of "Black" and "Rangers". 'Yes, but you do not close the first assessment'. The first evaluation is closed. 'Yes, but they're crumbling the revenue'. When revenue showed that it was going well, there near the fifth month of 2016, the motto changed: “Yes, but the cutter comes. And when the cutter stayed unclaimed, and the revenues seemed to be riding, they said, "Yes, but it's overtax." Euklides Tsakalotos testified the painting with the "champions", champions of tax evasion. It was not Euosmos, Cordelio and Stavroupolis, it was not Drapetsona, Keracini and Perama, but it was Santorini, Mykonos - and I tabled it in committee - and Rhodes. We had 170% increase in theft of VAT. When Stournaras came out to the Finance Committee and said we got $1.5 billion. The euro was then returned and said: 'Yes, but you did not get the debt and the quantitative relaxation'. What debt? Those who asked for debt sustainability certificates were talking about debt and are now talking about quantitative relaxation. I wonder, when the quantitative relaxation and debt regulation come, what will they have to say? They did not vote in December 2016 on the thirteenth pension, to share in a million six hundred thousand low pensioners the sum of 630 million euros. Then it turns out Chief Kyriakos regretted it and remembered with a delay in 2017 that in 2016 he had to share 0.5% of the surplus. But then it says "we vote against the countermeasures", which specialise and specify the way in which the surplus is shared, which he had asked earlier to share. Stones and bricks and horns steadfastly sprinkled! It is announced by Chief Kyriakos that he is reducing the HNPH, which Venizelos introduced as HNPH. We are implementing the second reduction of the EMSDDA by 30%. Chief Kyriakos announcing a reduction in farm VAT from 24% to 13%. It has already been announced that, from 1-7-2017-, we are saying this throughout the Greek region, to all Greek farmers - for fertilizers, agricultural machinery etc. from 24% to 13%, with so many other things as a premium. The political, strategic, programmatic, ideological is being sought. The compass went crazy. Running is nonexistent. It looks like Chief Kyriakos to Christoforos Columbus: When he started he didn't know where he was going and when he arrived he didn't know where he was. "Silver alert: Head Kyriakos seeks a program, positions, commitments, perspective". Help him find a program, positions, commitments, perspective! Going out to the ferry for the " chair", wish the waiting is small! But the sovereign Greek people, the hundreds of thousands of unemployed, homeless, innocuous, those who have been identified with the hope of President Alexis Tsipras and SYRIZA, movements, reasonings, may hurt, measures may be hard, but they know deeply where hope lies. They're asking us, they're claiming from us, they're looking for the different course. You were judged in the waiting, in the search for compass, in the search for direction and direction. And now I come to what I said again: "The chair," he says, "the little ones" of SYRIZA. "People"? As a result of the abolition of Members' tax deductions, the last two subparagraphs of Article 5(1) of the resolution of 1975. 77% tax which they have been saying for seven to eight months in the morning, deliberately, to create breaches within the parliamentary group, - for Members who have tax-free 77% - is abolished. It was a specific proposal - and I put it in the Minutes - where my humility expressed - on March 26, 2017 in the newspaper Kontra News and on March 14, with an interview with Flash - and then a question was asked by twelve colleagues, then a unanimous decision of the Bureau of the Parliamentary Group came here. Do you love the chair? Evidence! [[At this point, the honourable Member, Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I call on the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, the Bureau of my Parliamentary Group, the Government and Alexis Tsipras, to ask for a roll-call vote on Rule 71. Here, present and not absent. Let's see you who don't love the " chair" and us who are the "humans" and we love her. We are and have proved that we are followers of the experienced example. Anything you ask of the people, whatever you ask for from tax-free, you must first be subject to it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The story about the chair has gone too far. MPs with ten, twenty, thirty, forty, forty years in the parliamentary offices are challenging people, farmers, workers, craftsmen, sons and daughters of wage earners, pensioners, unemployed, who have been fighting since eight years to get a piece of money! Professional politicians, porphyrogens! Are you going to give up on us?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u225	Please complete, Mr. Triantafylides.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u226	It's time of truth. Do you love the chair? Decision! All together, here in the Chamber and not absent, we vote one by one, by name, and we go on the road that simulates parliamentarians as citizens of increased responsibility with every citizen who shares his concern, his problem, the unemployed, the homeless and the poor. I cannot know better - and this is what I am closing - the New Democracy, by my colleague, the journalist Manolis Kotakis. It is worth, says in the newspaper 'DIMMOCRATIA', to ask: what is New Democracy today? Among the taxi drivers and UBER, which wants to liberate the taxi market, are, according to a statement by its top executive, UBER. Among pensioners and lenders, when asked about the aid, are with the lenders, who now complains and declares "residents" in the House. Among canalarchs, who paid 300m euros, and of public interest, which requires the end of anarchy in the media, it seems to be with the first ones. Until an intervention was made by Chief Kyriakos to keep the competition from moving. Is there an illusion that society does not see them and that they are covered by the polls? Go! Go! Go! I am presenting for the Minutes what my most symmetrical colleague, Manolis Kotakis, said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u227	Good. Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u228	And I close with this: the society, my dear ministers, - and now I turn to you, Mr Juliarakis and Mr Papadimitriou - cannot wait. We don't have time. We've got to cut off. Unemployed, homeless, impotent, seeking hope. They're waiting for us. We have been trusted, in our own shoulders, to put our soul and our judgment again and to identify it with the social palmographer. Tell Pichili to stop seizures of small amounts of poor civilian deposits. Minister, the preferential status of first-resident borrowers before the loan goes to red funds. At last, online gambling licenses. We cannot cut off EUR 20 and 30 from the micro-retired person and leave EUR 6 billion to the internet bet without permission. The undrawn account for professionals, traders and crafters must be implemented. As long as the Cassandras want, we will all go together, identified with the hope and soul of the people and citizens, who have a name: Alexis Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, Mr. Triantafylides.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u230	Mr President, I would like to speak for a 20-second speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u231	Mr. Gass has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u232	I will not question the evidence that Mr Triantafylides said about the increase in revenues of 170% in the islands of Rhodes, Mykonos and Santorini. We have to clarify, however, that these are the result of the very good tourist season that we had last year and, secondly, the abolition of reduced VAT rates. They are not tax thieves, nor are the businessmen in Rhodes, Santorini and Mykonos entirely exempted from tax. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u233	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u234	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u235	Mr. Staruras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u236	Just following on from Mr Triantafylides' position, because there is a gap in informing, from what I understand, some hours ago, that the New Democracy has been put right about Article 71. It will vote and ask you to see what you are going to do in the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u237	Thank you, Mr. Stakoura. The Minister for Economy and Development Mr. Municipality of Papadimitriou has the floor. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u238	Ladies and gentlemen, some believe that growth is a magical number of GDP growth that is sufficient to have a positive sign. This is a mistake confusing recovery with growth. The recovery of the economy to last and become sustainable growth must have strong structural foundations and must touch the whole of the economy and society. The aim of the agreement with creditors is to create similar solid foundations, through reforms in the structures of the economy, in order to restore the confidence of creditors and investors in the Greek economy and to provide the necessary funds to finance investment and job creation. On the occasion of the debate on the Multifibre Arrangement, I should like to refer to the content of four reforms which concern the subject of the Ministry of Economy and Development. I believe that in one way or another they contribute to the development of the economy that is under way in the current agreement. The first change concerns the regulation of the framework for publicity in the Central Electronic Register of Public Contracts of the KIMIDIS, as it is called, of notices and declarations in the procurement procedures of Law 4412/2016. The amendments made simplify the framework for the publicity of notices and declarations in order to adopt the KIM regulation, to make this unique point of publicity. The obligation to use the national electronic procurement system for categories of projects, studies and related services is also gradually shifted on 15 June and 20 October. The gradual implementation is required for the sake of adequate training of contracting authorities and contracting entities. By the way, I'm putting forward legislative improvements in this article.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u239	The second reform concerns the out-of-court settlement mechanism recently adopted. With Article 46 of this bill, we are making the extrajudicial procedure even more flexible by facilitating the ratification of the agreement by the court if such ratification is necessary. In particular, it is foreseen that any differences in the amount of the disputed claims, if they are not resolved during the proceedings, will not impede the ratification of the agreement by the court, even if they could have an impact on the amount that each creditor would receive in the distribution of the amounts paid by the debtor. With the new provision, the court will investigate the relevance of the disputed requirements only when they are so large as to influence the formation of a quorum or a majority. The third reform concerns the management of red loans. The proposed provisions amend the Articles of Law No.4354/2015 on the management and sale of loans and credits. These targeted amendments to the law provide for clarification of the institutional framework for the management of loans with a delay of more than 90 days in view of the institutional protection of borrowers, while facilitating credit institutions to manage the huge problem of red loans. The most important provisions of Article 48 relating to the amendment of the above law are the following: First, the sole purpose of the management companies is to allow them to carry out, beyond the management of loans, real estate management operations provided that these property is owned by the bank and that the management is carried out on behalf of the bank. Secondly, it amends the provision concerning the authentication of any person who directly or indirectly controls 10% of the management company's share capital. Thirdly, it is clarified that ‘clean money laundering’ is kept in full and that if the principal of the loan is required to check ‘lending’ this check does not need to be repeated by the management company, provided that this company does not receive any money. Fourthly, it becomes clear that the process of the Code of Conduct continues and the issuer, i.e. the new acquirer, has the same obligations as the licensor. Finally, the fourth reform concerns the operation of shops on Sundays. The proposed provision constitutes the implementation of a commitment accepted by the previous government under toolbox number one of the OECD. It should be noted, in fact, that in 2014 the Ministry of Development then tried to implement the relevant OECD recommendation, through the introduction of fifty-two working Sundays in three very extensive areas of the country. And even though this ministerial decision came to the Council of State, there is no doubt either that the OECD recommendation will be fully accepted by the previous government or that it will be implemented as far as possible. This is the situation we are called upon to manage today under the suffocating pressure of institutions and, in particular, the International Monetary Fund. Although we do not share the optimism of the OECD and the institutions, with regard to the expected development result of this arrangement, we are trying to honour previous years' and government commitments in order to strike an appropriate balance between the prerequisites for the second assessment and the protection of the public interest. In this context we rejected the proposal from the institutions for horizontal liberalisation of shops on Sundays. I will mention attributes that any application of the criteria for the designation of tourist areas proposed by the institutions - that is, at least two thousand beds or a ratio of beds to a population of 8% per regional unit - would lead forty four regional units of the country to complete release for the period between May and October. These would include, among other things, the whole of Attica, Crete, the Peloponnese, Western Greece, Thessaly except Karditsa and all the islands in the Aegean Sea and the Ionian Sea. This horizontal intervention has been definitively prevented. The same is true of the requirement of institutions to operate supermarques on all Sundays of the year in these areas. The liberation, according to the law, is limited to selected areas of four regional units, such as the central sector of Athens, the southern Athens sector, the shopping centre of Athens International Airport, the historic center of Thessaloniki and the Piraeus shopping centre. The main criteria for this choice were the tourist dynamics developed by the regions concerned and the protection of healthy competition. In addition, the debate on the legality of the shops' operation on Sundays is closed. The importance of this development should not be underestimated, especially in view of the introduction of the fifty-two Sundays in the Ministerial Decision by which the previous Government attempted to implement the OECD Recommendation. I would like to close with a reference to the workers in commercial operations. I understand their reactions to the proposed regulation. I am also aware that, unfortunately, the extension of the operation of commercial stores on Sundays has led to increased cases of breaches of their rights. This situation is not tolerated and we are already in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour and the Labour Inspectorate, in order to deal effectively. The increase in working Sundays was a key point in negotiating for the second evaluation. This does not mean, however, that the attempt to defend their constitutional rights will be stopped. On the contrary, it will be intensified so that any developmental effect this arrangement does not come to the detriment of workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u240	Thank you to Mr. Municipality of Papadimitriou, Minister of Economy and Development, and to the consistency of time. We shall proceed to the Members' speeches. Ms Maria Therleritis, a member of the SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes. Then will Mrs. Nikki Kerameos and Mr. Christos Katsotis be spoken and the Minister will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u241	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start with a comment. Only in terms of devaluation, discrimination and dehumanisation and disguised courage from the extreme right-wing rhetoric could I characterise the previous intervention by MP Georgiadis. I'm coming to the point. Despite the fact that, at the expense of known pressures and blackmail, the Government had to make all its energy available to debt reduction assessment and perspectives, the completion of the second assessment seems to be drawing its way, the new agreement creates a firm ground on which the government can pursue its policy, namely to implement its priorities, namely the recovery of labour. The aim is to reverse the existing situation in the labour market, where flexible, precarious and undeclared work prevails, and to make full work as a rule. With regard to the reconstruction of the social state, the aim is to establish public health, welfare and public education and the major institutional and democratic areas, with a view to combating corruption, democratisation of public administration and integrating transparency and democracy. Before I enter the countermeasures and measures, I would like to see a little bit of how the current situation is present and, indeed, I could say that only for the art of crossing data could I say that the current situation is present, through a perspective that is far from real as the earth from planet Mars. And I come to the fact that the New Democracy is even charging the government social pessimism, as Mr Staikoras, the special rapporteur for counter-population, said yesterday. Fortunately, however, we are not suffering from collective amnesia and we and the citizens who have experienced - and I stress that they have experienced - the consequences of your neoliberal choices. They did not hear or watch them on screens, experienced them in their daily lives. They experienced redundancies, health and welfare dismantling, multiple attacks on employment rights, the dismantling of agricultural production, processing, trade, authoritarianism. Did Mrs Bakoyannis then know the meaning of the word "nurse" or now she finds out? It's a question. Therefore, despite efforts, the project to rewrite history is absolutely a failure. Neither then nor now - much more now - you can rewrite the success story. Let's go to PASOK. He is now being cut off for the workers, when he had joined the New Democracy on his day and had implemented policies for the pillaging of the insurance funds, for which the rapporteur for the Democratic Integration showed so much sensitivity today. Eleven laws have been passed since 2014 with which they literally dissolved the labour market, the institutional framework established by workers' struggles, the dissolution of labour relations, and the exacerbation of employers' infraction and arbitrariness. They shaped the framework that allowed the insurance system to collapse. It is only today that the Democratic Partnership wants to forget about it and is presented as an defender of the world of work. We now come to the perception that the Chief of the New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis, is taking over. What does Mr. Mitsotakis say? He says there's no separation between the Left and the Right today. And along with Mr Mitsotakis, between reasoning and lies and persuasiveness of those who put themselves in a bag and question the dominant policies on the left with the nationalists and neo-fascists, we, as the left, have to answer that yes, indeed we are populists. Although we hate it, today we are populists for two reasons: because we are interested in connecting working class, people's interests and because we want to reverse the rise of the extreme right. Let us not forget what happened yesterday in Parliament, which is intended to push anti-parliamentism to its ultimate limits. That is why we are answering institutional and parliamentary questions by hitting the snake's head. However, ladies and gentlemen, despite the compromises and the unfavourable terms, the draft law we are debating today represents an important and decisive step forward in a long, difficult route, which we hope will lead to the end of the committee's programme and the adjustment programmes. Whether or not the Greek people will judge us. Apart from the social measures - countermeasures mentioned by colleagues, the draft law includes development countermeasures announced by the Minister of Economy, Mr Haritsis, of EUR 900 million, until 2021. It is 100 million per year in the third pillar of the programmes on energy upgrading. In parallel to the "I save houses", with which the energy upgrading of dwellings is financed, public and municipal buildings are also financed by the Infrastructure Fund. Moreover, 100 million will be given for development law because of increased demand and so much so, that is to say another 100 million, will be given for the implementation of important rural infrastructure projects, with which, together with the reduction of farmland from 24% to 13%, we can say that we are creating certain conditions for the rebuilding of production in the agricultural sector, in the primary sector. And I come in a few words to say what we are seeking for the political system. What has already been said under Rule 71, the abolition of the Members' tax, is a constant request from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - and we must note that - as is the fight against corruption. In particular, there is more transparency in the method of financing political parties, where we abolish private funding, when it comes from private legal entities - this is also about the combinations of the candidates for regional and municipal elections - and we reduce from 40% to 10% the proportion of the total government funding of the parties. You all understand that this was a necessary demand for society. I conclude with a few words about public administration. And here I really would like to dwell on the Antipopulation account. What does Repression say? That we want to create a party state. As long as opposition promotes the party state’s account, the government is promoting state emancipation, transparency and democracy in the public. And he's proved it with the Staff Register - I don't have time and I'll be very concise - and with mobility. It insists on the establishment of the organograms, despite the reaction and the delay. Hence the postponement of the date of application of the mobility referred to in this draft law. He continues with the call for the selection of heads and also with the crises.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u242	Please finish, Mrs. Theleritis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u243	I'm done. For ten years now, the selection of heads and the public crises have been made clear through political intervention and not through service councils, which were not set up, and we are currently forming them and which have already been established. Based on n. The crisis will now take place. Who creates a party state? We or the Opposition have been forty years since there has been nothing but the clientele and the party state. I'm ending with self-government. Here again, I would like to refer not only to the opposition but also to the joint body of self-government, the CEDEFOP.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u244	Mrs. Thalerite, you've been over time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u245	I'm sorry, Mr. President. I'm done. I'll just say a couple of words. On the occasion of the provisions in the medium term, there is a record that 35% is cutting resources into local government. In fact, there are no resources with which we can make the reform, which is why we will only be making the change in the system.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u246	All right, Mrs. Wellerite.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u247	I'm done. That's not true. And we insist on the multi-brand plan to prove that there is no cutback in resources and what has been done, because we include the previous CFP law. We will therefore prove that there is no cutback, but there is an increase in resources on most points. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u248	The Minister of Finance, Mr. Chakalotos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u249	Mr President, I would like to put forward some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u250	Mrs Kerameros has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u251	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, four characters for the bill you are bringing to the vote on at the National Representation: fourth, unnecessarily, extremely painful memorandum, without funding for the country. They're four characterizations and I'll document each one of these four. I spoke about the fourth memorandum, because the measures included in it, EUR 4,9 billion, are not included within the third memorandum that you brought in August 2015. Tell me one of the 4.9 billion measures you impose today, which was in the third memorandum. I talked about an improper memorandum. A few months ago the lenders together had absolutely no requirement of new additional measures. Inappropriate Memorandum, therefore, because these measures have become negligent by creditors because of your delay, your inability, your idealism, your obsession for overtaxation that kills every prospect of growth. I have talked about an extremely painful memorandum, because it provides for measures that impoverish Greek society, especially the lowest and medium-sized incomes. There are pension cuts, tax-free reduction, social benefits cuts and unfortunately the list is too great. I also talked about a memorandum without funding. Why would one expect, ladies and gentlemen, that at least you have agreed on these impoverishment measures, to take a brave financing package for the country in return? Even a single euro is not paid in funding for the country, it is the answer. Ladies and gentlemen, what did you say and what are you doing? You were saying the third pension for all, and now you are cutting the twelfth and the eleventh. You said tax-free at 12,000, then the Minister of Finance, Mr. Chakalotos, said he'd resign if the tax-free goes below 9,000. The tax relief then fell to 8,600 and Mr Chakalotos did not resign. And now from 8,600, another 35% fall to 5,600 euros, and Mr Tsakalotos is still here, he has not even the elementary dignity to remain faithful to the commitments he made himself. You said not a single euro in addition to what the August 2015 agreement provides for and you bring 4,9 billion additional measures. Of the EUR 12 billion that you promised, you have reached EUR 14.2 billion, i.e. more than nine and a half times the measures provided for in e-mail Hardouvelis, which you so swept through. You said, and I read from a Prime Minister's interview just four months ago on January 25, 2017, it says: "The request for extra measures to be made, and even under a sect is not only foreign to the Greek Constitution, but it is also foreign to the rules of democracy, it is foreign to the European acquis. In a favoured European democracy, all these are the words of the Prime Minister, 'that is not even allowed to ask for it. And that is not a question of a government, but it is a matter of dignity and self-respect of a people and a country," Alexis Tsipras 25 January 2017. That's what you said. And what are you doing? Just what you complained about four months ago. You are to be privileged under special measures already decided by the Court of Auditors that they are unconstitutional and that the Scientific Service of the Parliament also tells you that they are unconstitutional. But you are otherwise every word of this Constitution. And in response to all this, ladies and gentlemen, you say 'But we legislate countermeasures. For every euro that we take you will give you another euro.' Is that so? No, of course not. It is the greatest communication fraud and you confess to it yourself in Article 15. The 2% countermeasures will be applied if and when measures of EUR 4.9 billion are first implemented, if and if you catch a surplus of 5.5% and then all if and if the lenders agree to and approve the application of the countermeasures. That's where you've made us. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not just in the economy that you are making heavy blows. Your ideological footprint leaves it in every aspect of public life. And I come to Article 56 on education issues. Unfortunately, you continue in the direction of degradation and State intervention in the private education of an intervention initiated by the Friends Act in 2016. Ladies and gentlemen, let's start with the important things. It goes without saying that the workers of teachers should be protected against any misappropriations of schoolchildren and it is also understood that the right of pupils to quality education should be protected. What did the law say, Philie? That the private school has no right to assess and choose its teachers. This is why he was responsible for the Ministry of Education service. And because, ladies and gentlemen, your institutions have scrubbed your teeth and have obviously accused you of regressing in relation to private education intervention, you are trying to do things a little better. And what do you think? Instead of the bodies responsible for judging the lawfulness of a contract of employment, it will be a committee, which will have the purpose of a court of law, as it will consist of three first-time courts and which will decide on a timely procedure of at least two years. Ladies and gentlemen, three are the main issues, which I invite you to consider: First of all, there is the committee itself. The Joint Labour Law, which covers all workers throughout the private sector, stipulates that for the lawfulness of the contract of employment the courts, not committees whose members, although judiciary, have a choice from the Minister himself, are the Minister's own choice. Secondly, this committee will consider whether or not the termination of the contract of employment is legal, on the basis of three reports drawn up by the school director and the school advisor. And I ask you: on the basis of what facts these reports will be compiled? And I ask you why, firstly, the director and the school advisor have no right to enter the classroom unless the professor himself agrees and, secondly, why you, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, have banned the evaluation. So how will the director and school advisor assess a teacher? Thirdly, any termination of a contract of employment should have been preceded by an administrative procedure of at least two whole school years, after the school expresses the need for the educational situation and during these two years the teacher will, of course, remain in the classroom. Ladies and gentlemen, please listen to me. I would ask you to consider the following example: consider that at school where your child or grandchildren are going to go - and I conclude, Mr President - there is a teacher who is manual. Fortunately, these are rare behaviours among teachers, but there are some individual cases. With the law that you are voting on today, gentlemen of SYRIZA, it can be two and more years so that the contract can simply be terminated by a manual teacher, while this teacher will remain inside the school. Can you stand it? I close with an example showing your unprecedented inability. In this new memorandum, ladies and gentlemen and Minister of Finance, you have provisions on the remuneration of teachers and you said, or rather you said, until you were labelled as New Democracy yesterday, that the only salaries paid by teachers are wages and allowances. You forgot, SYRIZA gentlemen, to mention the possibility of gains from research programs and postgraduate programs and then you wonder, gentlemen, why our researchers are leaving abroad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u252	Thank you, Mrs. Keramea. Although I am not used to comment, what you said by hand is not subject to the provisions. There are existing provisions - manualty, sexual harassment, violent behaviour - which are treated immediately by the management of studies.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u253	It's not clear from the law. To make a legislative improvement in order to clarify it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u254	Good. However, I can tell you that the gesture is being dealt with immediately. Mr. Papatheodorou knows about it, which had been passed by the Ministry of Education. It shall be treated immediately with other provisions in force.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u255	Make it clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u256	Let us now move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u257	Mr President, I would like to make some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u258	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u259	Mr President, I have asked for the floor to put forward legislative improvements, particularly in the recitals, although it cannot be done, but to include in the Minutes some verbally uncertainties in the explanatory statement and a final version of Article 65(4). I put them in the Minutes and I would ask that they be shared with my colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u260	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, thirty-two students and students and six teachers from the 6th and 3rd Municipal School of Volos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u261	Thank you, Mr President. Let me first welcome the great participation in today's 24-hour strike and the strike gatherings of thousands of workers, unemployed, pensioners, self-employed, young people, as well as farmers, in many cities in Greece. The day after tomorrow will also be another day of mass reaction of the working class and the people's classes, sending another universal message of opposition to the fourth tough memorandum with measures, added to the measures of the previous three memoranda and leveling the lives of the working class, the popular strata. It is an answer to the Prime Minister, who states that the world is in agreement with its policy. They give an answer to the terrorism of the employer, they break fear and they claim losses, their modern needs. You can't mislead the world, gentlemen. He is now experienced by your works and days. He's got you a hammer and he doesn't bite on the so-called countermeasures on the propaganda trick you're using. It does not sting at what you say about best development practices, which will allegedly benefit all, both employers and the working class. You cannot fool them with the so-called fair growth, which will allegedly bring the normality, as you say, to work. The words 'development','reform', 'best practices' mean unemployment, underemployment, poverty, abolition of insurance rights, an increase in the exploitation of working life of daily working time without any collective labour rights, such as the strike or collective labour agreements, which you today in this Memorandum abolish, make it harder or implement the requirements of big capital. What is your pursuit? To implement the requirement of monopolistic groups for an even cheaper labour force, to increase the degree of exploitation, so that capitalist recovery, capitalist profitability, can progress. The new package, in accordance with Articles 1 and 2, the report by the General Accounting Office of the State, contains cuts - we said yesterday - not at 1.8 billion, which you are trying to deceive the workers themselves, but at 8280,000 euros. The pensions you get from pensioners will be one to three pensions a year. The personal difference created by the law - the looting of Katrugalo, to be abolished now means that the reductions will also be for those who take the lower, low pensions. As is well known, the recalculation will take place in the new way, which is the separation into national and payroll, which will be calculated throughout the life of insurance at the known rates of substitution. Reductions in pensions will be up to 35%. Of course, they will be added to the great cuts that have taken place so far. Gentlemen, tax poverty and relieve big capital. Even those who have 405 euros a month, you take them one and a half wages a year with the tax reduction. These include pensioners, who, apart from the reduction in pensions, will also have a reduction due to a reduction in tax. Let's see what else you're doing. With Article 57 you are even cutting the benefits of those who are in extreme poverty. Financial support for low-income families with schoolchildren. You're cutting it. New entrants' allowance, young people under 29 in the event of redundancy. You're cutting it. Preferential allowance for unprotected children. You're cutting it. Financial support for natural persons who are in a state of total poverty. You're cutting it. We're talking about barbarism. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. What you were saying about the reintroduction of compulsoryity, the expansion and the principle of validity of the most favourable contract go to the bells. It is important for you that the cheap labour force, which is a key term in the so-called friendly investment environment that the Minister for Development has said here before. Article 17 establishes the possibility of collective redundancies by the large business groups by abolishing administrative authorisation. It is only a prerequisite for workers to be informed. So what? What does it mean, what if they get up to date? You tell me, they have to fight, it's the only way. By Article 18 and 19 you are putting greater obstacles to the organization of workers and their struggles by abolishing the minimum trade union freedoms, by extending the possibility of the trade unions being dismissed. With Article 20 you introduce the lock out, you give the opportunity to work outside the anti-territorial framework of legal decisions that make 90% of the illegal strikes in fast track procedures, proceed to lock out with the application of 656 of the Civil Code. In addition to this, you are abolishing the Sunday holiday that was won as a day of the working family by legislating seven days a week, Minister! And it's a disgrace to you. It is disgraceful of a conquest of the working family that was on Sunday holiday and was all the family together, you today give it to the major business groups. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The government with the so-called countermeasures comes to serve the delusion of the people. He's scouting the attack. He's trying to create a climate of class cooperation, legalising government policy with countermeasures. Firstly, part of the countermeasures is direct support for capital. Takes from the people and gives the capital. For example, subsidized jobs. I mean, free labour. The reduction of taxation, on the one hand, you tax poverty and, on the other, it is tax-free, you reduce taxation from 29% to 26%. With other countermeasures, for example school meals for eleven thousand children, it is indirectly a food group grants. Why don't you do it for all the kids? Free for everyone. With the redistribution of poverty, employees and self-employed are paid for the extreme poverty groups. But even the implementation of any countermeasures presupposes the success of the anti-population attack of all measures, only if the blood surplus is caught and the benefits of overshooting the bleeded surplus over 4.5%. It calls for a consensus from the government in the slaughter of the people for crumbs. He's taking ten, he'll turn one. The New Democracy supports the government. That's what it looks like. He wants to cross the line. They have the same strategy for capitalist recovery. They're both converging that measures are necessary. We should have taken them faster, they say, to open the way to development. What's he saying? The agreement has been delayed, it has cost the economy, and the government does not believe in the reforms, that the New Democracy has another management mix. It will implement reforms better. It will implement privatisation much faster. It will contribute more decisively to the creation of the friendly investment environment. The logic of the lesser evil is served by both SYRIZA and the New Democracy. Well, the people have experienced this logic of the lesser evil that has led to the great evil of the majority of workers and the people, who have been poored by your policies. You both serve as other parties the real opponent of workers and other people's strata that are business groups, monopolies and their needs. Gentlemen, the only opposition is the JRC. It is not fatal to live in insecurity, exploitation, poverty. The solution is the JRC's proposal: the coexistence of workers and other peoples in the struggle for a change of order in power, for mobilisation of production means, for scientific central planning. The JRC calls the working class on a counterattack line. Dispose of government policy, measures and countermeasures as a whole. At the heart of covering losses, satisfying modern needs. Everybody have a permanent and stable job, with a fixed daily working time...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u262	If you're kind enough, you're complete, Mr. Katsotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u263	....seven hours, eight hours, without unemployment and occupational insecurity. To reduce, with productivity rise, working time and to increase, free time. But you can't have that because the blockade is capitalist property. A lot could be said about the modern needs of workers, that everyone should have a wage that is able to live without any deprivation, that they have the limit of their lives, that they have cheap and healthy people's housing, cheap energy, water, heating, and so on, and the others, which are now lacking in the working class.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u264	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u265	I shall conclude, Mr President. The ability and necessity that exists today to meet the current needs requires the struggle - what the JRC says - for the development path that meets these needs. The obstacles to such growth for the benefit of the majority of the people are, as we have said, capitalist property. Only when it becomes social and the working class takes power will it be able to plan to satisfy the modern needs of our people.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u266	Thank you Mr Christos Katsotis, MP of the Communist Party of Greece. Mr Alexandros Haritsis, Deputy Minister of Economy and Development, has the floor. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u267	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the agreement that is being discussed these days in Parliament is the result of a difficult but necessary compromise. It does, of course, contain painful restrictive measures, which are not the choice of the government. Of course, we heard the representative of New Democracy a moment ago, Mrs Kerameo, telling us that the institutions did not ask for any further measures. I think we should leave it in the Greek people's judgment. What matters to us is that, of course, today's agreement does not lead us to celebrations. We will not enter the logic of our predecessors to celebrate when we know that the situation in society remains very difficult. We are fully aware of this situation and are trying to reverse it. This agreement, however, contains, for the first time, equivalent countermeasures, namely positive interventions, which make the overall financial result neutral. Never again when the country entered the memoranda, there has been no agreement with the lenders, which includes compensatory measures that balance restrictive restrictions on budgetary terms. But the agreement also includes something even more important. It includes for the first time a roadmap of exiting the country from the memoranda and the gradual recovery of fiscal and economic sovereignty. It is accompanied by the commitment to resolve the debt issue, which will enable Greece to self-finance its markets without new loans, measures and Commission. In other words, this is a comprehensive agreement, what we have always said is necessary to change the Greek economy's page. A comprehensive agreement, which only our government proclaimed and finally succeeded. Of course, it is difficult to hear these in the public debate, as the noise that has been created in recent days by Opposition and by the majority of the media is deafening. They call for a fourth memorandum, even though they know the program ends in the summer of 2018. They call for new measures, while noting that these are accompanied by positive interventions, by positive countermeasures. We are being invoked for primary surpluses of 3.5%, which we agreed with the institutions, when the previous governments agreed from 2015 and there are surpluses of 4.5%, with no commitment to the debt. This is the reality and the only thing opposition has to oppose in this reality is the well-known inclination, that "you will not manage to catch the budget targets and therefore the countermeasures will not be applied." I guess the opposition is confusing us with their own governments. They note that for the second consecutive year we have exceeded the objectives of the surplus. The result, which was even recognised by the International Monetary Fund, which, as we all know, underestimates the potential of the Greek economy. However, we are accused of the fact that we from PASOK and New Democracy and of the anti-development policy, while, on their day, GDP has been downloaded by 25%, unemployment has risen to 27%, the public investment programme has shrinked, the banking system has basically turned into a zombie, as there was no possibility of access to it by Greek companies and the market has been dampened by liquidity. These were the painful results of the policy pursued in the five years 2010-2014. What have we done, however, in the development arm to counter - if you like - this situation and to overthrow this reality? First of all, we have made use of all the available financial instruments available to us, mobilising the combined resources and leveraging their resources to provide the economy with the necessary liquidity and to finance the necessary development assistance. This has resulted in the full utilization of resources available to us from the NRP for the previous programming period 2007-2013, bringing the country to the top of the respective absorption tables across Europe. We have achieved this even though the over-commitments that have been inherited from the previous governments have been great. It was up to 6 billion euros. What does that mean, practically? It means that if we did not proceed with this resolution of the programmes, if we let things evolve as they had been misdesigned by the previous governments, we should have national resources from the state budget to finance these huge overcompensations. We are basically talking about a night-blocking fiscal bomb on the foundations of the state budget. This is good management invoked by the ladies and gentlemen of counter-population and we are criticised for. We, therefore, without accounting for the political costs, proceeded with the resolution of the programmes by responding immature projects and at the same time opening up the programmes in society. We have given social strata which have so far been unable to access them through transparent and unbiased procedures, through an anonymous assessment of applications, first and foremost have access to the system and secondly - and this is politically most important - to restore the credibility of the system in a society which has been facing this whole Community programme as a whole for so many years as a whole. We have shown the same effectiveness in the new programmes. Already activated 60% of the new programs and absorption for 2016 reached 11.35%. To have a comparison at the corresponding point in the previous programming period, the absorption of programmes in economic conditions - as we all understand - had just reached 1.5%. However, these are not abstract figures in some tables of the European Commission or the Ministry of Economy. They correspond to real interventions in the integration of projects that were over decades throughout the country in support of social structures and services of the so-called social state which has been shrinking in previous years. I would like to mention features of the early recruitment of all the assistant teachers to open schools on time, for the first time the possibility of accessing nurseries for more than ninety-three thousand children, and indeed on social criteria. They are interventions which have a very important print. Of course, the interventions do not stop here. Already this period is planned by the Ministry of Health and will be financed by social funds and national funds, the major reform of primary health. These quantitative successes therefore have a very important social reflection. However, problems with overcompensation and bad planning were not only concerned with the ESDP programmes. We also have problems with development laws in these cases. It is characteristic that the pro-investment projects, otherwise, previous governments, as they want to present, had left the previous three development laws of 1998, 2004 and 2011 with a total budget of 6,5 billion euros in the air, as no provision had been taken to finance them. Even worse, with a special arrangement introduced by L.4146 of 2013, the resources available to the public funds in 2013 and 2014 were channelled in advance to few major investments that in many cases have never been completed, and this has now put us in a process of withdrawing these amounts and returning them to the public funds so that real investments can be financed that will be implemented. This whole situation has been reversed by the new development law which, for the first time, is geared to strengthening small and medium-sized enterprises. For the first time, it changes the logic of direct financing and sets the logic of supporting tax evasions and tax exemptions to investors. And the results we already have since the implementation of the new law are very encouraging. More than seven hundred investment projects have been submitted in less than five months with a total budget of two billion euros. In fact, what is extremely important is that the majority of these applications concern small and medium-sized enterprises in manufacturing, industry and enterprises which are applying for tax exemptions and tax exemptions. So, as we had planned, the logic of direct subsidies, which has prevailed for so many years and which has damaged the Greek economy. In addition to this, the initiatives we take to leverage the funds available with financial instruments, the new Investment Fund, the new entrepreneurship fund, the micro-credit fund, the infrastructure fund, which will combinedly make the economy more than EUR 3 billion, maximise the development effect of our efforts. For the first time, the country has an integrated development plan for the production of the economy, in the direction of socially just, economically sustainable and environmentally sustainable development. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Your tolerance for two minutes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u268	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u269	Thank you. To focus now on the issues of the Public Investment Programme and the countermeasures associated with it. We received the Public Investment Programme at the lowest point - from 2010 onwards - and in the first two years, within a financial framework which is very restrictive, we have increased significantly. From 700 million euros the national part of the Public Investment Programme has already reached 1 billion euros in 2017 and in 2019, regardless of countermeasures, the national part of the Public Investment Plan will increase to 1.25 billion euros, while the countermeasures, which have already been agreed with the institutions, will exceed 1.5 billion euros and will reach 1.5 billion euros. Those aren't just numbers. This increase is very critical, because through the National Public Investment Programme we have the possibility of implementing projects throughout the country, projects which cannot be implemented by other financial sources, projects which are designed with the participation of local societies in decision-making, because they are the local communities themselves which are best aware of what their needs are and what their priorities are. So, in this logic, we have already introduced special development programmes for the Aegean islands, for the northern and southern Aegean, in order to address the problems created by islands, but also because they have lifted most of the refugee issue and on Monday we are signing the relevant ministerial decision to start the integration of projects into these specific development programmes, which will be strengthened by the Public Investment Programme. We therefore believe that, especially in the current circumstances, there is no room for relaxation - if you like - to make use of the available financial resources. I now come to countermeasures. I told you all this because these were the weapons we came to the negotiation with. The achievement of fiscal stabilisation, the consolidation of the programmes, the stability that we now have in all fundings is precisely the weapons that we used in the negotiation and we have achieved within the agreement that EUR 900 million development measures, -300 million a year by 2021 - are included in the agreement, which will have a significant impact on the Greek economy. In particular, these countermeasures that we have agreed with the institutions include: 100 million per year for the energy upgrading of energy-intensive industries and manufacturing enterprises, a key problem of competitiveness of Greek enterprises, which we will also try to resolve through this intervention. Another 100 million will be allocated to the additional financing of the new development law, to respond to the demand that has emerged in recent months and which cannot only be covered by the available resources, and at the end of the year 100 million more will finance important rural infrastructure, irrigation and improvement networks, rural roads, an intervention that is combined with the reduction of the tax rate to 13% of all agricultural products intended for production, a measure which will apply retroactively from 1-1-2017, is a comprehensive financial and tax facility to alleviate farmers and facilitate rural production. These development countermeasures are interventions which relate to the entire range of production - industry, manufacturing and the agricultural sector - and which are interventions which will be maintained after the completion of this three-year period. Developments, therefore, came to stay after this period. Ladies and gentlemen, these days we are all called upon to make very critical decisions on the future of the country. The deal's a tough deal. It contains difficult points, which are more affected by our social base. But it also opens the way for the final exit from the crisis and the memoranda. There are no more excuses. The aim of all must be to develop and create jobs. For us, however, growth is not a neutral size. For us development is socially and classically identified. That is why we are mainly gearing them towards the small and medium-sized enterprises. This is why a serious effort is being made for the Ministry of Labour to reform the EIA and the labour market surveillance mechanisms. We also want growth to be participatory. Development interventions must be the result of democratic consultation with the citizens and their organised bodies and not be a reprehensible one. We want growth that is balanced and embraces the whole country. That is why we are moving towards targeted interventions, such as the specific development programmes for the Aegean islands that I mentioned earlier, which restore balance and address specific development problems, specific challenges, which face specific regions of the country. Finally, we want growth that is sustainable, based on solid bases, not bubbles, as has happened many times in the past. That is why we are directing all our financial interventions to those areas where the country has comparative advantages, to the extroversion, to the technological upgrading and diversification of the capacity of the economy. With hard work, determined and targeted, I'm sure we'll make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u270	Thank you very much, Minister Haritsi. Mr Marios Georgiadis has the floor from the Centron Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a Final Four in a few days and you will allow me to use a basketball term. "Back to back" Memorandum only you can make it. I am sure that next year you can do the 'three-peat', bring us a third, which very few groups in Europe have achieved. The only thing is that it is a memorandum and it is the fourth and, in fact, without funding and whatever you say, it is not the case. The oxymomile is that you bring a Memorandum entitled “Presently”. We have learned, without being a lawman, that, when we vote for a law, it has immediate effect. You bring something that will apply if and as long as, and so on. On the basis of Article 15, if the surplus of 3.5% is caught, which is not enough for you to say, the IMF must come and ratify it - and if the institutions and the IMF agree unanimously, then you can give the countermeasures to the Greek people for the amount exceeding 3.5%. I mean, if it comes 3.6%, only 0.1% will pay. Let me remind you that we have something else. There's an pending cutter. So the only thing for sure is that, if you don't catch 3.5%, we'll have the cutter, we'll have the measures already implemented and the Greek people won't get one in their pocket. So your record of the thirteenth pension has been wings and even the twelfth has been wings. Going to Civic Opposition. In one month, on June 15, you are preparing for "Resign", "volume 2". Say it's successful and say it's quitting. What are you gonna do? You're gonna cut the taxes and get out of the memoirs? But, according to your own administration, you had reduced their taxes from the memoranda and even signed a Memorandum of Understanding. Speaking of resignations, Minister, I see that you're still here. It has reached 5.861, and even widely signed your signature, and yet sit at your seat. But from what your colleagues tell us at the panels, you want to quit, but they keep you - they barely say - because we can't fight a child if he doesn't write the tests properly. What do you have to answer, Minister, to your colleagues in this insult to you, who are described as a child and who say that you have not made a proper policy and because you have failed a test they will not fight you? I'm waiting for your location. You're talking about growth and there's Dassor Piraeus to describe the only growth we're waiting for with seventy thousand jobs is supposed to be the Greek one. So what development are you talking about? When ELSTAT has come and tells us about 0.5% recession in the second half of 2016 in relation to the first semester, and we continue in real terms, where do you see growth? We also have the investment index, which Greece is making in the last place. We also have the GDP index, that among all countries we are the only ones who are in front of zero or whatever they have minus. I am tabling the relevant tables in the minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So there is no growth from you, just as it has not even come from the previous ones. Retire your pensions, as you say the previous ones have been cut. You wages cut off, just like previous assignments have been cut, you do, as the previous ones have done. Then you tell us that at the same table as they can't sit. Where do you differ? The majority I can tell you that you may be worse than what you have brought from the previous ones. The only good thing you brought to the "floorplate" bill is Article 71, which we will support, because it equates parliamentarians with other Greek citizens. We cannot support it, because we PASOK, ladies and gentlemen, are not, we are, we are, we are, we have the simple analogue requirement and, when it comes, because we are not interested in the way in which we are not supporting it. Although it does not come right and complete, because if you wanted to have an economy, you should make the three hundred MPs, two hundred, as we say, and instead of two million, save each year, get away from about fifty and sixty. But the other forty - two of the forty - four budgets are waiting for them by the judges. Let me see how you treat them when they run to the Council of State and tell you that it is unconstitutional what you are doing and get back to this provision. Let's go to the craving, in the medium term, page 209. The rule is for every five who leave the public for one intake. When we talk about five leaving, we're talking about retired people. Let me make this clear, because you have no interest in making an assessment, you have no intention of finding the payrolls, so that you can remove them and so on. Even at home to find him sitting, just because he's a vote, you'll keep him there. So we're talking about retired people. The rule is that: five go, one come. What's happening now is that four leave one is coming. What are you telling us in the table that's being deposited? The year 2018 will be three to one, 2019 will be two to one, 2020 will become one to one. With the geometric progress you're taking, in 2021, we'll only expect appointments? Since I am referring to appointments and because the government presents a chaotic set without beginning, without any means, without end, I propose that you take advantage of the artistic director of PPC, who is the last provocative appointment on your part, to come here, in the gutter of your orchestra, with a beautiful bagget, even if he manages to coordinate you better with this irrational work that you have been playing for a long time and is called SYRIZA - ANEL. In voting for the measures, there is no need for any artistic director. There you are special, the way you play with the signature of what the government brings you, in order to stay in your chair. Of course we are voting against the draft law, with the exception of Article 71 and perhaps Article 70, which concerns farmers, because we are talking about a tombstone to the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u272	Thank you, Mr. Georgiadis, from the Centro Association. Mrs Papapiga, Member of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u273	Today there was a major strike mobilization, gatherings and demonstrations throughout Greece. Even if Parliament was glass, even if it was in the countryside, the voice of strikers and protesters would not be moved by our'sensitive' - in introductory terms. This does not mean under any circumstances that the struggles are in vain. On the other hand, it is very important, as it was yesterday and the other day, that there should not be an anti-linguistic measure that does not meet the popular resistance, which does not imply in any way possible and possible that a large part of the people - and we would say the majority - do not agree, does not legalise, even if it has legalised the Government and the other parties of the Opposition with the popular vote. Of course, these campaigns are not enough, not legalising a decision politically, but every struggle is important, because it can prepare a great movement, which cannot simply be anti-government, must be directed against all the parties that support the system, against the system itself along the way. So every struggle, even when it cannot bring immediate results, is very important, it is enough for workers in and from their own experience - and here the Communist Party of Greece plays a very serious role, in order to raise the experience of the people, it cannot impose it, but it can help to climb - to know where the movement has to reach. The movement is not an end in itself. It's got to be somewhere. Let me start with criticism of the opposition parties, beginning with New Democracy and other parties. You are not right to accuse the SYRIZA government of being the protagonist, the protagonist, the leader of popular deception. There is no government, either unilaterally or in active cooperation, which supports the capitalist development path, which follows anti-grass policy, regardless of whether it is in the short term making certain selective economic concessions, which do not use the element of deception. It can't be done. There is no government party, one-party government or co-operation, which considers Greece's participation in the European Union and NATO as a one-way path that does not surround its tactics of deception. Because if she talks with the language of truth, then she doesn't saw her chair, she commits herself politically. I do not think there is a party or government that will voluntarily kill itself. Of course, the SYRIZA wardrobe has many variation suits. The New Democracy can't have much. How many is there? It can't be done. So is the other parties. PASOK once had more. Now that's limited. SYRIZA's government, SYRIZA's party, can wear a uniform of Fidel Castle, Che, Beloganne, Marx. He may wear Lenin in October because of the October Revolution. He's got no problem with that. A lot of variation suits can be worn. Under the variation suits, however, there is a one-way street. This one-way is not just ideological, political. We are living through the measures it has taken, the measures we are voting on today and the measures it takes tomorrow. I do not want to dwell on the general strategy that unites all parties in opposition with the government. It's a conversation that takes a lot of time. Two things today have been heard by the government - not only today - from the other parties and we hear them every day, from the panels and others. Firstly, 'we must gain the confidence of investors, domestic and foreign and create a suitable environment for investment'. Secondly, 'let's get out on the markets'. That is what you support all parties. What does "friendly environment" mean for investors? Mr Papadimitriou said so in his speech. What does "friendly environment" mean? It means a obedient labour force, a job relationship jungle. In fact, it does not only mean cheap labour power, but also manipulated, busted, conscious that we cannot live without bosses. It is not enough that the labour force is cheap. They want employment relationships of umbrellas and a number of other things, of course. That's a factor. It also means that Greece plays the role that the other parties have pursued and that SYRIZA, as we say it, promotes it with bounces, that is to say, playing its geostrategic role in the conflict, which is not only economic, political, is also military, in the distribution of oil roads, etc., in the three cycles that exist today. One is Black Sea - Ukraine etc., the other is Balkan - Mediterranean and the third is North Africa. It is a number of factors that will attract this environment, investment. You also say 'let's get out on the markets'. Indeed, here the SYRIZA Members said that we do not want a memorandum with funding, which accuses us of New Democracy, because we are going to go out on the market. So now you're not on the market? What are the markets? The markets are not the states, are they not the governments, are they not the banks, are they not the industrialists, are they not the shipowners? What are the markets? Is that a charity facility? You say 'we will borrow from the markets'. But from the markets you borrowed and borrowed all the governments, at all times, from the private. With the PSIs they became state debts. So the banks, what are they? You're saying we're going out on the markets and we're saved. We won't have the quartet. But that's a deception of the people. Indeed, Mr. Haritsis made a model of deception, that all this is done for the small and medium-sized ones. Of course, at the level of Europe and globally, the industrialists in Greece - not the shipowners - and others are small and medium-sized. If you mean these small- and medium-sized ones, let's agree that's the government's policy. It's a deception. On countermeasures. Look at that, it's tragedy countermeasures. It doesn't matter that you bring them the same day or they'll be separate. And with a month of difference, it's a tragedy again. It is a certification of simulation, as long as the people do not take the case in their hands, and it does not overturn this situation, unemployment, poverty and so on. Let me give you one example. You're talking about whole day schools, kindergartens, kindergartens and so on. It seems like a nice measure, modernistic. You're talking about all the schools, not what the previous governments anticipated. But, with the elasticization of working hours, with the rolling hours, with the generalization of Sunday work, you have no choice. Schools must work, especially in primary and dayclubs, from morning to night and work with their own staff, and with fewer money and Sundays. Of course you're gonna do all this. We're absolutely certain. Because it's not just four hours, it's rolling. Starts a mother with little kids working on Monday to Saturday, then goes on Tuesday to Sunday or they say come to her at 10 o'clock in the morning and leave at 7 o'clock in the evening, come 11 the next day. Can you not have schools? Doing night-grade? Look, the other side of the tragedy is what we call the humor of the original lie. You know, original lies aren't that dangerous, because they're laughing and revealed. However, they show the means of the power of capital, its political staff, which are the government parties, to deceive the people. You know what the countermeasures reminded me of? Something that I learned a few days ago, the great proto-April joke in 1953-1954, which organized the "BBC", where in a village outside Italy, but with an Italian landscape, they hung macaroni from the trees, after they were spanked in the towels so that they could bend and spread to Great Britain that the trees were producing macaroni, because until then in the United Kingdom in the 1950s they did not know the raw macaroni, they ate macaroni in Italian canned and cooked. That's your policy. He passed to the British people and for many days hundreds, thousands of phones were made to find seeds to plant these trees. It has the capitalist system ways to manipulate the people too many. From this point of view, it is very important that in Greece there is a labour movement, there is a self-employed movement, there is a rural movement - it is not massive as much as it needs - and there is a JRC that goes, not generally against the current, because it is not worth going against the current, it is important to say what the slogans on the streets say and which we support: "Work, you can without bosses".
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u274	Thank you, Mrs. Aleka Papagiga. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, twenty-four students and students and three educational escorts from the Elounda Lassithi Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Please come to Stepma, Mr. Spyridon Lykoudi, Z' Vice-President of Parliament, MP from Potami. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u275	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government agreed to close the infamous second assessment after 15 months, showing the continued negotiation with itself as negotiators. The price of this delay is heavy. The bill went up too high and the countermeasure invention does not balance it. No proposal for countermeasures can compensate for the huge bleeding that has kneeled and kneeled the citizens and the Greek economy, much less that these countermeasures will be put into effect, if they are put under the eruption of a further bleeding. It is only a sedative, in my opinion, of domestic consumption in the face of a memorial of all the previous ones. The main question, ladies and gentlemen, remains and the government has not answered it because it cannot answer it. Why did another two and a half years have to be lost with losses of billions to meet us where we were at the end of 2014? 10 billion has been lost from GDP. We start with a lower base and that's not all. Ten billion has not been lost one-off. They are permanent in biennial terms as discounted income losses. Professor Panagiotis Tsakloglou calculates this cost that is higher than, according to moderate estimates, 100 billion euros. In view of the fact that about half of the GDP growth is returning to the public through direct and indirect taxes, but also social security contributions, the huge loss of budgetary revenue is immediately perceived and the debt losses have been damaged. The Governor of the Bank of Greece has spoken of 86 billion and Regling has spoken of 100 billion. Costs for the country from our policies have reached gloomy heights. That's what the serial fraud or delusion cost - it doesn't matter anymore - of the government. We'll pay them for years more expensive. Ladies and gentlemen, one can easily see the problem, the trick and the impasse for the government today. The problem is how the denial of the populist promise, the huge frustration, the anger and anger that caused it must be curtailed, so that the SYRIZA's complete political or election collapse does not occur. I understand how heavy and unsatisfactory the burden for the Members of the Complex who are baptising the fish and who are not speaking today, are swallowing their tongues without apologies when they once have been popular preachers of the Promised Land. Secondly, the trick lies in the fact that the negotiatorial Lebanese, now surrounded by a relic of sanctuary for pilgrimage, to demonstrate the great miracles it has achieved, which is nothing but new burdens on the citizens. You are forced, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, in front of the harsh reality, either to drink this bitter glass - as others have drank in the previous phase - or to abandon power. You choose the first - I understand - with obvious consistency. You've negotiated for yourself, you've booked the deal yourself, you're going to vote for it yourself. From lyssy antimony, you changed to cynical managers of your memorial. It's all your own measure, own property. It's pointless to seek accomplices and accomplices, because you won't find them. Thirdly, the deadlock arises from the fact that the government has left the story and enemies. The former enemies have now become officially serious and open-minded. It's the Prime Minister's statement. However, this does not prevent the opposition from being denounced as an agent of the enemies, but on whom the government today swears and on whom it seeks to rely. It is the end of hypocrisy or a constructed paranoia, possibly for naive. Ladies and gentlemen, the government celebrates the bloodshed - I would say - a primary surplus. It is questionable, however, first of all, whether it is sustainable and, in any case, it is certain that it has been achieved with the wrong mix of policy, with greater austerity than the enthusiasts themselves. At risk of poverty is now 1/3 of the population. Income disparities are widening. Recent research by DIANEOSIS has shown that 13.6% of the population, about one and a half million citizens, live in extreme poverty. The work jungle is wrathing. 40% of the new employment contracts are part-time and the wages in Greece are in the last place in Europe. The main reason is how many workers are paid on time, how many are blackmailed and how many are not declared. Unemployment, in particular in the young people's age group, between 15 and twenty-four years, amounts to 48%. EFKA is being shaken before it even lands, with tens of thousands of pensioners and just waiting in line for years. Even food sales have decreased by 15% since the beginning of 2017, while prices have risen. Apparently, to joke, it's a government countermeasure against obesity! Ladies and gentlemen, the government in addition had committed two very serious crimes, in my opinion, in the political sense of the term. The first is the further disdaining of the political system and policies if the "Nobody" is persistently posted the first party in all the measurements of public opinion. Old-fashioned methods, settlement and partitioning of the state, new complexity, efforts to control and confuse, all create this image. It is an image - although you are denouncing the previous ones for the same ones - for which too many times you are taking this step. The second is the anti-European current that has developed and, in my opinion, has been completely strengthened with government policies. Ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, demonisation has been paid dearly for years in Europe and will be paid even more expensively in the future. I'm done. However, let me tell you that, in my opinion, you need to go beyond that. Political controversy is today and tomorrow, and it does well to do so. It is hard and persistently aggressive. It's okay. In the end, however, it is a national need to overcome the divisive reason at some point and polarisation, to map the roadmap for exiting the crisis, to build the future with new materials and on the basis of the great comparative surpluses we have, conducive to the progressive forces of Europe. If anyone asks me "you are optimistic about such a course?", I will answer "no", because the government is unfortunately trapped in the pit she dug out. Her problem is that she cannot live her myth unless she insists on her deadlocked policies. You will allow me to say this, ladies and gentlemen of the Staff Regulations. I do not think you will understand either in the new phase that we will enter the political sterility of repeating the request for elections and the solution that you consider to be in the logic of 'you leave, we will come'. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that in the next period, the country needs strong political turbulence, but it is all about the political system and I hope it will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u276	Thank you to Z' Vice President of Parliament and Member from Potami, Mr. Spyridona Lykoudi. The Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has the floor, Mr Stavros Kontonis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u277	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in attending these days and in the committees and in plenary I see an extreme, aggressive and acute reason, which overlaps with the statements made by the Opposition for the Government. This is the first time that, with such aggression, I would say sometimes and in a market way, the government is under attack and designations and is to wonder why. If you have political arguments, you can put forward the political arguments. It seems, however, that this gap in political arguments comes to cover this aggressive and acute reason. We have heard of incompetent, liars, fraudulent, unprecedented things and an extreme depopulation of political speech, if such a position can be described politically. It is, of course, logical. Why are you doing this? Because the entire account of Antipopulation, especially the New Democracy, has fallen to the barbaric. The evaluation has now been closed, and we are talking about the countermeasures which, in December, you called on us to close the evaluation, were not there. What can anyone say? If you want, can you stop? If you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u278	My colleague spoke to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u279	Unless you think you're saying any wisdom.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u280	No, it's okay. We're listening to yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u281	Because the President gave me the floor, let us say our views on the draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u282	We've been together for the last two years...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u283	Mr. Cryazides, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u284	What do you think? So that's where you're supposed to be, too? Don't you get what you say from here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u285	Did you hear anything like that, me being ruthless?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u286	All right, stop it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u287	Let's stop, please. Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u288	Of course, one thing has not dared anyone to say about the government in so many designations. For thieves and misadversaries of this government, no one spoke. It makes sense, because now, as many years as we rule in cooperation with the ANELs, no matter how hard you tried to find a pin you didn't find it. This is the message that the Greek people are getting, that mistakes may be made, that there may be regular retreats to achieve the great goal, but in this government there are neither thieves nor burglars. You will not find ministers, MPs and members of this government carrying suitcases to the party funds from "SIEMENS", you will not find in this government executives in a situation of great interests and being financed. That is the reality and that is what the Greek people know, and that is why you have lost both your temper and the measure in what you say. To inform the National Representation about ten days ago, I sent the President of the Court of Auditors the conclusion on the NGOs financed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the question whether these amounts could be charged. Then we'll talk about it because you're talking about legality in this Chamber. The Greek people, ladies and gentlemen, are well aware of the differences. Even if he blames the government - and he surely concedes - he knows one thing that is very important, that the country on the rocks has been thrown by others, those who have been talking about Titanic, those who have for thirty years destroyed all the structures of the state, which have dismantled the social state and every sense of deserve. These are the people responsible and the Greek people know that. So don't pretend to be innocent pigeons here. You get bored with the big crime and black night, lasting seven years, and if you are fighting today is because you see that this night ends and ends with the government of SYRIZA and the political initiatives it has taken in the years that have passed. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a lot of talk over the last few days and I have been invited by a number of colleagues in good faith - and I think it is my duty - to investigate the question of the provision a little, what is called impunity, but it is not perpetrable. It would have been irresponsible if the government had consented to the proposals that had already been made since June 2016 on the Minister of the Friday, that there should be no apportionment and no responsibility for the officials of the public and banks involved in the restructuring of the red loans. We did not accept this, and I would therefore like to stress that the provision we are bringing does not exist. On the contrary, this provision is fully in line with Article 20 of the Constitution, which I read to you, in order that there is no doubt that there is no doubt: ‘Each person has the right to legal protection by the courts and may develop in these opinions on his rights or interests as laid down in the law’. I'm really not going to expand too much here, but I want to make a report. It is once again opening up a debate, which has been in existence for years and concerns the theorists of the law, in particular the Constitutional Law, as to whether this provision restricts the right to legal protection. In my opinion, ladies and gentlemen, what case-law and theory have produced to the greatest extent is that it is not wrong, and much less that right is undone. Because in this particular case we have an unequivocal provision, which is not about whether a right will be exercised, but about how it will be exercised. This is of particular importance, it is a procedural issue, which is addressed in the Constitution and which is specified in Article 41 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. In this sense, I would like to tell you that this constitutional provision, as it exists and operates quite rightly for so many years, but also the other provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure and of the existing legislation, are absolutely right and make a measure so that the right is exercised entirely by the citizens, but also that the legislative power is not excessively limited to legislating. You know very well that there are corresponding laws, laws that require prior authorisation of an Authority. It is the cases of the Securities Committee, which need prior authorisation of the Securities Committee to the competent prosecutor, that is the application of the labour supervisor, that is the request of the Head of the DUI for tax offences. The provision is therefore completely constitutional. I would like to stress that it is not about bankers, ladies and gentlemen. It concerns civil servants and banks, because unfortunately we have seen a propaganda in recent days - and I am not talking about journalistic circles, journalists write what they think is right and I never intervene in this matter - by parties that were referring to the privileged treatment of bankers. These are officials who will take part in this process and of course these people must be protected from malicious complaints. So I think that the parties should be cleared up and, in particular, the New Democracy. Because yesterday I heard her representative and responsible for justice, Mr Panayotopoulos, and she was left unresolved. Does the Qualified Opposition agree with this arrangement? Does he agree? Let us know directly and without a second debate, because if this is where the government is supposedly downgrading the role of the prosecutor, I have already explained that this is not the case. The prosecutor, following the application required by the law, has an absolute power to do what his conscience and duty requires. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I would like your tolerance, Mr President, for a little while. The second thing I wanted to mention is that for electronic auctions. Ladies and gentlemen, the enforcement process you all know that this is a burdensome process for a citizen and, above all, its last stage, the auctioning process, because there is an asset being sold out, mobile or immovable. In fact, when it is immovable, this procedure is even more burdensome. I'm stressing this thing. But there were auctions before the crisis, ladies and gentlemen, there will be one after the crisis and there will be one now. What is it we want to ensure? We want to ensure for this citizen, who is in this difficult position, the greatest possible transparency and the greatest possible control in the process. Because you know that, in the past, when the auctions were still going to the municipalities, there were situations that went beyond all measures, with trabukism, even with the presence of people of the night who wanted to control the auctions. It had done, with good intention, a previous government, if I'm not mistaken, a PASOK government, an attempt to have greater transparency and assign peacekeeping courts with closed offers as a place of auctions. I would like to say that it was an effort that had good intentions, but it did not deliver the expected results, because we still have similar phenomena. One thing which is particularly unfair is that in this process it is not possible for the auction to achieve a large auction. We also need to ensure this, ladies and gentlemen, transparency, control and the greatest possible auction for a citizen who loses an asset. I would therefore like to say with all this that the regulation on electronic auctions is a regulation that is absolutely positive, which at a difficult time a fellow citizen, who has entered into this process, is subject to transparency, is controlled and a larger auction will be achieved, which he needs. At the same time, it ceases to be subject to this process of trampling, as the auction procedure is controlled. But I want to say something else. It has been mentioned by some fellow Members of the House that the Government does not take any action at this stage, since it brings the issue of electronic auctions to the first place. I would first like to inform you, as I said yesterday, in reply to Mr Panayotopoulos, that protection of the first residence exists and exists until 31/12/2017. In assessing the situation which will be shaped after the regulation of the red loans, the government has in mind, however, first of all, the situation at the end of the year, at the end of the year, to take all the appropriate measures leading to further protection of the first residence for those entitled to it. So this is where you squeeze open doors. I would say to you that a bad day you decided to do it because only yesterday, the Florina Peace Court tied up payments of borrowers, excluding from auctioning not only the first home, but also other movable assets. I put it in the Minutes, if you don't know it, to get some knowledge. [[At this point, the Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights Mr Stavros Kontonis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Ladies and gentlemen, the government concludes this second evaluation procedure, for which many of the opposition, almost all of you, had predicted that it would fall into the void, that it would not be completed and that, in any case, it would be at the expense of the Greek people. Today we call on you - hypocritically let us do so, but we call on you - at least the countermeasures, which will work for the benefit of the Greek people - and that is what everyone recognises - to vote for the whole of the National Representation. It is a attitude of responsibility, despite the fact that you, as many memoranda as you brought here, no matter what you voted, had a reduction in pensions of 42%, never been accompanied by any countermeasure. This is the great contribution of the government and the renegotiation and the possibility of finally getting out of this tunnel, in which you and the government have put us today, by triggering all those powers, the people's forces and the healthy forces of Greek society, gives a prospect of developing and fair distribution of income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u289	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u290	Mr President, I would ask the floor for a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u291	Mr. Haritsis wants to clarify something and then I'll give you the floor, Mr. Loverdos. Mr. Haritsis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u292	Thank you, Mr President. I take the floor for half a minute because I watched before Mrs Papayannakis' position on the JRC, who used the word 'defraud', because I referred to my speech at the turn which we are trying to do through development tools to boost small and medium-sized enterprises. So I want to quote the facts, for the truth. In the three previous development laws, 1998, 2004 and 2011, 4% of the investment projects received 50% of the aid. I repeat, 4% of the investment projects received 50% of aid, and even six firms received EUR 1 billion of aid. Contrary to the new development law, the data we have in our hands after the first five months of operation are as follows: 40.6% of applications concern micro-enterprises. In other words, micro-enterprises mean - because there has also been this question - up to ten employees. 27.9%, i.e. almost 28%, concerns small businesses, up to fifty employees. 20% - in fact 19.9% - relates to medium sized enterprises, from fifty to two hundred fifty workers and only 11.6% to very large companies, over two hundred and fifty employees. Mr President, I am simply quoting these figures, in order to confirm what I said in my initial position, that there is an attempt to strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises through these development tools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u293	Thank you, Deputy Minister of Economy and Development, Mr. Alexander Haritsis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u294	Mr President, I would ask the floor for a legal improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u295	I will give the floor to Mr Loverdos and immediately afterwards to you, Minister. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u296	I want to ask Mr. Contonis something. In 65, 'invited' is an welcome article. We were expecting this in the law on the extrajudicial compromise or at some other time, with a selfishness that would allow us to deepen. We don't have time to do it now. However, I have two questions. In Article 65(3), you say whether the competent official, let's say, can do a debt arrangement and you are setting criteria. As I read it, Mr Kontonis, I can find, in my mind, cases where a very large and charismatic arrangement goes through the criterion and, on the other hand, where an official's disgrace stops any regulation. I'd like you to explain that to us. Paragraph 4 defines an instrument which, as I read it, seems objective, which will be dealt with in cases. But how does this instrument move?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u297	I've submitted a piece of legislation, Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u298	Yes, I'm asking how the authority of this body moves. As long as a Member of Parliament has to make a show, say something or a question, to initiate this process? Because then there are issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u299	The Minister will answer. Minister, if you're kind enough, answer Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u300	First of all, Mr Loverdes, I would like to say to you that we have tried with this provision to balance both the protection of the public interest, in its broad sense, whether we are talking about the narrow public sector or the banks, and the protection of public and bank officials, which will be numerous. As far as we appreciate, it could be more than three thousand. They, of course, are not bankers, if we had three thousand bankers in Greece, they would be happy first. So the purpose of the provision was that. I would therefore like to tell you that this body, which is composed of three Presidents of Investigators, who will elect the Supreme Judicial Council, to monitor complaints that can be made about the management of these cases relating to the settlement of red loans, either the Chief Inspector for Public Administration for the members of the public authorities, will check all complaints that will reach their hands. In the second case, the banks, I would like to remind you that the law includes that there must also be an opinion from the relevant management of the Bank of Greece, so that there is a complete picture. Of course, this opinion is simple and does not bind the Authority, which can ask for criminal prosecution, but it must examine everything that comes to its knowledge. I think it's self-evident. That is the rule of democracy, and that is the rule resulting from Article 20 of the Constitution, for which I have already spoken, that every citizen has the right to express these views and as the law stipulates. From there on, the procedure will be followed. But you asked me something else about paragraph 4. It is for all cases where a member of staff, whether public or bank, actually demolishes the interests of the person he represents. We all know very well that the offence of infidelity, which we are talking about, is a crime that describes a betrayal in an internal relationship. This must be said by the one who is affected or by any other, any citizen or political person who finds that there are some illegality. In any case, I think that excessive rigour should also be controlled, namely that someone should not close, and that one should be closed for the benefit of the borrower or the one who has public debts, the insurance funds or the DUIs, etc., but all cases, which may be very easily controlled, possibly with fraud, are at the expense of the borrower, but also of the conscience and the law. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u301	Thank you. The Minister for the Interior has the floor, Mr. Skourletis, to make legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u302	Thank you, Mr President. There are four legislative improvements: Article 38(2), Article 39(5), Article 42(1) and Article 43(4). Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u303	Thank you. We proceed with the Independent MEP Mr Theocharis Theocharis. We invite him to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u304	Thank you, Mr President. I listen very carefully to what is said. I have already heard the Minister, Mr Kontonis, who left, I think. You understand that, as independent MPs, we have no line from parties. We need to think and fight on every bill, especially in such an important bill, to determine our position. It is very difficult and very critical for each of us Members to vote properly, according to our conscience, so complex and difficult issues, especially when they are implemented by 2023. What arguments are you trying to use to convince us? Mr Contonis added to what I had thought earlier. He said to us: 'Modify them, because we are honest.' But, so far, have you, as a government, done anything different? With Article 55 you want to make your own publishers and strengthen them. Rusfetti, recruitment, illegal simulations that fall into the Council of State. You've all done it. Is there any doubt that in five and ten years, we will discuss the examinations for your periods and your scandals? Does the Greek people see us in any doubt? So let Mr. Contonis speak better only for himself who knows and let not - I advise him - his hand on fire for any other colleague. In your arguments you say to us: 'Let us vote, because these measures are necessary'. No, ladies and gentlemen, that is not necessary. You have done so, because two years now you have 'Short Monday'! You do not implement development actions. For example, you allow teachers to find forests where trees were planted just a few years ago by schoolchildren. You say to us: 'Let us vote, because these measures are the best we could negotiate'. But it's not the best. You were asked for 3.6 billion and you give 4.9 billion. Your negotiation cost 3 billion in recession and 1.3 billion in new measures. A small example: Mr Tsakalotos said that if duty-free falls below EUR 8 000, he will resign and bring us EUR 5,600 tax free. Of course, he goes on to the next argument. You say to us: 'Let's vote, because we managed to take the countermeasures.' But what countermeasures? Mr. Kontonis told us that we should vote on the countermeasures. The countermeasures, I tell you very strongly, are the ones that are destroying this agreement. These will make it inefficient, not the measures. On the countermeasures, we will be forced to take more measures again in a few years. The clause for the exploitation of surpluses has, moreover, been in place. You used it yourself. In December you gave this "payoff" to the pensioners. Determined countermeasures have no meaning. You are telling us - and this is where the mockery of the matter seems - that we bring 4.5 billion primary surpluses and we will get 1% countermeasures: meals, allowances and so on. Shall we catch 5.5%? We'll achieve 2% countermeasures with tax cuts and more. And I ask you, why did you stop? Why don't you bring in more? If you achieve 6.5%, then you'll have 3% countermeasures. You can give free holidays. If you achieve 7.5%, why don't you legislate? You can. Nobody's stopping you. That's the value of your bill. If you catch 7.5%, you'll bring 4% countermeasures and abolish taxation. If you don't get 8.5%, you'll give 5% countermeasures and a hospital in each neighborhood. That is the value of the legislation you bring us today. It's a disgrace at least. You say to us: 'Let us vote, because with these measures we will take the debt'. But these measures are designed, so we don't get the debt. Because, actually, what are they doing? We're taking a lot of measures to get a little bit of the debt. If we had fewer measures, then we'd get more debt relief. In fact, not just what you legislate for goals. You succeed and overcrowd and rejoice in Symble and says "I will not give anything to the end". The debt, when you came to the government, was unsustainable and wanted a haircut. Now, with the mockery of the Greek people and the fact that you have managed to pass through all these measures that no one could go to Anti-Population, you have made it sustainable, only by means of a simple prolongation. If you keep going, you won't even need to prolong it. This is how the IMF-Germany agreement has been made possible, because only by a simple prolongation is everyone happy, because the deficit is going through it today. ‘Declar’, you say to us, ‘because these measures were passed in 2015 with the third memorandum’. But no! These measures are beyond your memorial, they are until 2023. The target of 2015 is lost, what you voted and voted on in 2015 was all lost and now you come with a fourth, next memorandum. After all, you say: 'We lost two years with all this and now we have to focus on development.' Now you thought you needed growth. 'Do not vote', you say to us, 'because we regain national sovereignty'. But you're expanding the commission even beyond the memorial. This is where we have lost more sovereignty. They will, of course, give us the debt in 2018 they will give us a preventive support line, you can go to the villages and celebrate. But the cutter is made from an annual quarterly. But the committee is becoming tougher and tighter. 'Declar', you say to us, 'because the end is the end of the memorial.' But, to finish the memorials, the country must acquire a productive model, and you only know the rumours and the client state, the spirit of friends who, under Article 55, bring us accelerating the support of publishers with public advertising. You who, otherwise, want to hit the affair. No, ladies and gentlemen, that is not why we should vote on this bill. When could an honest man in the Member's conscience vote? If I were sure these measures were the last. If they were to give solutions to the young, the unemployed, the farmer, the worker, the professional, the small and medium-sized enterprises. If you didn't waste it on this unexpected 10% or 20% in HISPIA. Can you give HIS 10 euros to HISBIA? What solution can you give the 10, 15, 20 or 25 euros with which you pass and waste the sacrifices of the Greek people? Only if we took the resources from the sacrifices of the Greek people and channel them to development goals, then no measures will be needed again. Only if these were to be granted the reduction of new entrants' contributions to the labour market, our young people leaving abroad, the reduction of the main insurance contributions from 20% to 12%, the reduction of the tax rate for employees and pensioners to 20%, the reduction of the corporate tax to 20% and VAT itself, the abolition of exceptional contributions, the abolition of trade fees and all small documents.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u305	Complete your thoughts, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u306	I shall conclude, Mr President. Only that will cause the shock that it needs in the economy, to have investments and jobs, and to create new jobs. Only in this way will the resources be created for a modern social state. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude with this, Mr President, that Alexander Hamilton, the first US Minister for Finance, a reformer after Robert Morris, a deputy of General Washington, very brave, called him "Tigris of Princeton" for the battle he gave there, wrote a letter to a friend of his before the War of Independence begins. He wrote: “I thirst to give my blood, but not my character for this nation.” He wrote these before there was officially this nation and for a state that still did not exist. Unfortunately, you are selling your character and your soul to the political system that brought us here, by copying all his mistakes. Along with you, then, you sell the future of our young people, sell their dreams. Now to our young people there is only one dream left: to leave as soon as possible from the country. This is the real bankruptcy of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u307	Parliamentary spokesman from the Association of Centres, Mr Anastasios Megalamoustakas, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u308	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, as a younger Member of this Parliament, and as a Member of Parliament who was not elected to the previous Bulgarians, the burden of responsibility that I feel today is enormous and that is how we can deal with the situation. I have listened carefully to Minister Kontonis saying that it is inappropriate for the political reason to accuse the coup d'état of lying and fraud, and that is why I will not use these words. But I will talk about incapacity, about inability to implement your commitments, and whenever I say so, I will argue, so that there is no step towards opposition to what I say. First of all, I would like to make it clear that we are not going to become accomplices to this economic crime - not to say 'lethality' - which is going to happen if the new memorandum that you bring is implemented and I will explain why. This new memorandum, the new Memorandum of Understanding you bring us is purely material. It is a map that shows us how to exaggerate, how to reduce incomes and how to lead to a recession, unfortunately. This whole map only leads to development, but instead leads us directly to a dead end, to a wall. Unfortunately, all you can do is redistribute poverty, as the poor become poorer, create new ranks for the poor and continue, as I see no development measure within this memorandum. We can't figure it out. The only thing that creates jobs is a number of provisions that you are going through, which create new bodies, new departments, new addresses, and there are some contractors who have shown us history so far that those who suit these positions are your own superiors, your own people. Unfortunately, what should be done, namely strengthening the primary sector, strengthening technology, innovation, the tertiary sector, services and, in particular, the information society, health and education, are not supported under any circumstances. The biggest question you should answer first to the Greek people and then to us is why you bring us this memorandum. You were talking about overcrowding. You were happy to say that growth is coming, and now you're bringing us a memorandum to negotiate the debt. In fact, many of your members, of the co-government, have let it be understood that there will be a debt cut, which is not going to happen. That is, a nominal debt reduction we will never see. All we may be able to do is bring an extension to this debt or a relaxation of interest rates. Unfortunately, we had to claim these without any new measures. Here is the first inability to implement your commitments, as the Prime Minister had announced that there will be no measure. But that is what we are doing: we are taking measures for a period when you will probably not be in the government. Unfortunately, you gave this right to the institutions, to the lenders, to the troika, to the quartet, as you would like to say. There will be no such denomination of debt, because the debt is now state-owned. It is not only Greece that is hurting the European Union. Unfortunately, all the European countries, because of the wrong policies that have been pursued, have similar problems to us, not to the same extent, because those who have been in charge so far have managed to bring us first and foremost into corruption and into misery and all that has brought us here. Unfortunately, the inability to implement what you were committing to doing is to do all it has ensured with the negotiation. Unfortunately, every time you negotiate only damage you have to bring to the Greek people. Unfortunately, we see that you continue the previous policies, of the New Democracy and of the PASOK, which strengthens the party rule, an institution that never dies in Greece. What I see - and I hope not to be verified - is that it will not change anything, because you often legislate, but, when it comes to implementing reforms and development measures, you prefer to leave them in the drawer. So let us make a brief overview of the measures for which both the more than forty operators who came yesterday did not have the best viewpoint. In fact, all of them opposed what you want to apply. In fact, you are bringing new measures, up to 2021, amounting to 5 billion and saying that you will bring 7.5 billion countermeasures, which will be very difficult to come, which you know. Otherwise, there wouldn't be those rings from the lenders. We wouldn't talk about measures, we'd only talk about countermeasures. You've been cutting off the ESS since this year. From 2018 onwards, remove tax exemptions and benefits. Since 2019, there have been cuts in both main and supplementary pensions. The measures are culminating in 2020 and 2021, which we see to be drastically reducing duty. What you manage is to cut off a wage and two pensions in an economy that is devastated! You're coming down to fire a bomb and it's all gone out. Just dust! To show you where this bill is and, more generally, your policy, I'll tell you some inaccuracies, not to lie. First of all, you assured that the tax will not be reduced. We can see what's going on. In 2021 a staff member of EUR 600 is invited to pay close to EUR 1,800 a year. That's his tax! Three payrolls! Three wages to a man called to live with 600 euros a month! Second inaccurateness is your assurances that pensions will not be cut. You went out and said it, and the Prime Minister and Mr. Katrugalos. In fact, Mr Katrugalos proudly said that 'as long as GDP is increased, as the country grows, we will also increase pensions'. Unfortunately, what you are going to do with the measures you bring us is cut them out. That's not a lie. Is it a retreat? Call it whatever you want. Unfortunately, these reductions also go to low pensioners. We have never been afraid as a Centro Association to talk about pension reductions, even about abolishing pensions now that we are in these difficult times. [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] But we didn't cut off the little ones. Our programme is costly and we would save 2.5 billion a year if we were to make simple moves, i.e. if we put EUR 1,500 as a maximum pension, if we were to abolish the pensions of Parliament, which is about nine hundred Members, now, in these difficult times. The honourable Member's profession, as you have made it, is not a profession, it is a function.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u309	Did we do it? For Christ's sake!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u310	I'm not just talking about you, SYRIZA and the ANEL. I'm talking about all those who have ruled so far. We are still talking about abolishing pensions for those with a income of EUR 3 000 and now we are in the crisis. When our young people are invited by four contracts and EUR 250 to live their families and create families, we cannot give pensions to people who have 3,000 euros incomes. We also claim that pensions should not be cut below EUR 1,000, while we want a booze to be introduced to all those who have taken early pensions. We are talking about those who have been retired, not those who have been taken because of an accident or because of an invalidity. We saw that after the Katorugalou law - not all of them were loaded to him - they closed fifty-seven thousand operations. I'm afraid something similar will happen after this memorandum. Fourth inaccuracy: You had as a flag the slogan: "No house in the hands of a banker." We see that the auctions will take place electronically every Wednesday, Thursday and Friday for twelve hours a day and, indeed, the security of the first home for buildings worth 140,000 euros and below. What's that? How do we get out and communicate this to the world? What will his reactions be? You were talking about good management of non-performing loans. Now what do we do? Unfortunately, we give the funds, beyond loans, and the homes of all those who had not put a mortgage. The most provocative - for me - which I see in this bill, particularly as regards countermeasures, is when you talk - to Article 6 - to resolve the demographic problem and mention the child's allowance. What really sads me is that you don't see that five hundred thousand young people have left. Guys, that's, we had it here, where we studied it, we let it go. So many young people coming out of the universities, what are they gonna do? Have we studied for them? Do we have any idea or do we just share benefits? Why don't we strengthen them? Why does a countermeasure not help young professionals, young scientists? So we're gonna solve the demographics by sending the young people out? My dream is that everyone who left abroad for economic reasons should go back and nobody should leave for similar reasons. That, I think, is what all my generation wants. That's what you should have been guided by, not how we give some benefits, some piles and anything else. I want to warn you about something, as it sounds like you're planning some water increases... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me a little more time, Mr President. ...and you'll create PPC accounts similar to PPC accounts. This is unacceptable, because the Greeks now have three taxes to pay. One is normal, the other is insurance contributions and the other comes with PPC's account. We hope that this will not happen with the ECHR's accounts. Now that we're talking about PPC, we're open and defenders of opening up the jobs, opening the market. However, we cannot sell our national wealth, our lignite mines and then play patriots. The Centro Association is not going to vote either on the whole or on the articles, in addition to Article 71, which, as our rapporteur said, is a flagship of the party. Reduction of parliamentary allowances is one of nine points. Let you change Article 36, in particular paragraph 5, with which you reduce the inconvenience - you do, I believe, for political reasons - because, if you wanted to give a solution, that incomprehensible would not exist and there would be another article in its place which would abolish state subsidies. It is not right to cut off only from PASOK and New Democracy, who owe and have to pay. Cut it out of everyone, there's a justice in the election fight! That's what we're asking! I don't have much time. What I want to say to you - and I think that every single citizen would like to tell you from this Step - is to implement what you said in 2015, that you will change the country and not force people to change, because we are not going to make it any other way. Look at it a little with your conscience, with yourself, with your voters and change the way you legislate! Change your policy, because we're going directly to the cliff! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u311	Thank you, too. Mr Evangelos Apostolos has the floor. Mr. Apostle, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u312	Ladies and gentlemen, we are bringing an agreement from our country out of the crisis, an agreement that came after two and a half years of work in suffocating economic and financial conditions, and after we have put a series and order on many things, without pointless crowns and rhetorical demagogues. We have been hesitating in the rural area, in which I will stand in my speech, at least as many of the wounds that have been afflicting him for decades, under the responsibility of the policies of the New Democracy and PASOK. Ladies and gentlemen, we have set up the rural economy on the political agenda. We have taken measures to support and support farmers. Both their income and exports increased, as evidenced by ELSTAT and EUROSTAT. We put forward actions to encourage, facilitate and strengthen the producers of Greek countryside. We have put order on the payments and payments now given on time and without fines and charges. We have secured liquidity with the Farmer's Card. We have established the single market in agricultural employment. We also solved the insurance policy and guaranteed agricultural pensions. We have relieved taxly 95% of farmers, who will also enjoy tax refunds this year. We have reorganized cooperation on a healthy basis with new cooperatives and producer groups. We have put forward the new Rural Development Programme, which has so far proclaimed measures amounting to EUR 1,68 billion, which, by the end of 2017, will reach EUR 3 billion, while, by doing so, decentralisation by self-government, we transferred to regional government in 37,5% of the funds. I do not have time to deal with all the interventions. I will, however, dwell on some government priorities in the rural area, which we are promoting through the medium-term framework of a budgetary strategy that we have tabled and which we call on you to vote on, where we anticipate substantial policies and actions, such as rationalisation of payments for agricultural products. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and PASOK, your policies on this issue have led to the end of a few days' time being paid to producers with checks of eight and ten months, even with open dates. You have made the farmer and the rural area generally the main creditor of trade, when he, as you know, faced huge liquidity problems. Do you know where this distortion is based? In a loophole of legislation - unless the parties decide, they agree otherwise - that you have adopted, with a view to effectively neutralising the relevant directive of the European Union, since you know, of course, that the weak link of such an agreement, the farmer, could not have done anything else. From now on, the payment of fresh and vulnerable agricultural products will not be allowed over 60 days, depending on the product and in line with what is applicable and applied in other countries of the European Union. The interventions are to be made - and they will be made - to support our agricultural products which are pressed by the Greeks. With our other legislative initiative - a plant in the livestock sector is the compulsory indication of the country of origin of milk, both in milk packs and in milk products. The Greek consumer will now know what he is buying and it is certain that he will prefer the Greek because he knows that it is quality. We are also working on meat products, for which the labelling of origin, although there is a corresponding obligation, unfortunately, is not going to the consumer today. The regulation that we are introducing will go up to the cash machine. There are, however, other problems that require immediate intervention, such as overcompensation. You, colleagues of the PASOK and of the New Democracy, brought the rural area into the situation, its total debts - agricultural and agricultural cooperatives - to EUR 7 billion today, and especially to the formerly liquidated agricultural bank of EUR 3.5 billion and to be almost over-day. Debt to the clearer - and you know that - there is no chance, nor is there a minimum, that they will be paid in part and that they will not, of course, be covered by the auction that may arise through the forced procedures in the mortgaged facilities, equipment and debt-related assets. That's where you got the situation. We will not let this entire rural property be deported or sold off. That is why we are preparing and working out this particular proposal - a solution whereby the mortgaged agricultural property - land, facilities, equipment and property - will be recorded, valued and the agricultural property will be transferred to the DIAGE - a management body set up by the Ministry of Rural Development for the development of rural land and public property - and the urban property will, of course, remain at the disposal of the rural Bank. So the urban property can also cover part of the debts, but also the agricultural property can contribute, through the DDIAGE, to the service of its purpose, which is no more than the service of agricultural activity. We did and do what was politically and humanly possible, in the adverse conditions, the Greek countryside breathing, getting ahead. Ladies and gentlemen, two years ago we voted together to increase VAT on agricultural supplies to 24%. You because you had the whole responsibility for the curse that you led the country, and we to put the country in another claiming negotiating logic and to slowly remove the commemorative burdens. And we did it. After tough negotiations and despite your urges to close as the evaluation, we have achieved important things for the Greek farmer: first, to reduce VAT from 24% on the agricultural supplies to 13%, with the power not the distant future, but in one month from now, from 1 July. Be sure that our intervention in the excise duty on wine will come soon. Colleagues of the New Democracy, we refresh your memory, recalling that a request to reduce VAT was also made by your President in his daily opposition speech. We negotiated it, and we did it. And now you Members of the New Democracy cannot stand this success and do not vote for it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u313	We have tabled an amendment to this, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u314	We have also taken, as a countermeasure, the lower rate of farmers' taxation from 22% to 20% and the zeroing of the solidarity levy for incomes of up to EUR 30 000. In essence, that is, we have deducted the solidarity levy from all farmers. You do not vote for that, nor can you stand it! [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Your daily credentials, colleagues of the New Democracy and PASOK coup d'état, testify that you do not give a damn about the Greek farmer and farmer, for the man of the countryside. All you care about is how to undermine the efforts of the government. Two years you are being buffaloed with the idea that your Greek people have nostalgiced, you who screwed the country, you who can only stand up to you is, "Look who they speak"! Ladies and gentlemen, let demagogy be heard and listen to what the country and the Greek people need. And what it takes is to walk through this deal on our way out of the crisis. And make sure we succeed!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u315	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-two students and students and two educational attendants from Farcadonas Trigalos High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The applause is indicative. Please, Mr. Papadopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u316	And after the Trikala children have come too, I would remind them of a philosophical enthusiasm of Bertolt Brecht to his companions: 'What is the point of describing a tragic reality if we do not analyse the reasons we have come to this and, above all, how we are going to overcome the tragic situation?' These came to my mind, when I listened to many speakers - and at the morning and evening sitting of the House yesterday - to describe the cuts, the bleeding of incomes, unemployment, tax and insurance, the hard neoliberal measures included in the hundreds of prerequisites for the second assessment, without analysing why Greece became a highly indebted country, what caused bankruptcy, who made wrong multipliers, with ever misplaced estimates, with the 'boots of the mighty', the barbaric measures and, above all, how Greece will pass in the new historical period, without distortions, without any breaches of public money, without prescribing for remission, but with full use of its comparative advantages, the natural wealth, the monuments, the excellent beauty and especially of the well-deserved human resources of the young children. These issues have been heard very little by the sympathetic representatives of the forty-fifths of the forty-fifths that we invited yesterday and the anti-politics, very few thoughts on the country's holistic reconstruction, on the mature radical reforms that we need, on the plan that will lead to the desired, rapid, balanced, sustainable, fair participatory development, with intelligent investments, with healthy entrepreneurship, with revenue and expenditure that will have the seal of social justice, which will be taken by the proven rich tax-gunkers, from the smugglers, and which will be allocated where they are going to take place, in Greece, to the possibility of employing all these young people who need them. They must have the possibility for new families to have all their children in children's and nursing stations, to take school meals, to have an upgraded National Health System, with local health units, with self-care facilities, to have children and hospitals of the National Health System, both in the islands and in health centres. The new doctors used by Germany and other countries must also come back, because we need them here. We understand the New Democracy. Its plan is to describe the country's destruction as now, to discover a continuation of the recession, when all up-to-date studies show a growth of 1.8% to 2.1% for 2017 and a Gross National Product of EUR 211.200,000 for 2021. Its plan is to do everything in order for the government to fall, to rectify the old system of power, to erase the scandals, to disperse public money, not to investigate the great food, to return Greece to the data that caused bankruptcy. However, you other, ladies and gentlemen, of the other opposition parties that you say that Greece must return to a page, which you did not share in the Kyrgyz Republic, the remoulla party, which you say that Greece must remain in the united Europe - a united Europe which, however, needs to be radically changed in order to implement the values declared - what exactly are you doing now? You say that we will not vote on the compensatory measures with which we agree, because they accompany substantial, anti-grassroots measures, which is a fourth memorandum without new funding. What don't you know? Do you not know who demanded, who blackmailed, who wanted the pension cuts, tax free, special wages of the EKRD, who called for Balkan pensions for Greek pensioners, who insisted on Greece to reduce the state financing of the insurance system, who made a colluding with the German and Dutch leadership to impose additional financial measures that they did not need? Do you not know who did not want to establish the freedom of collective bargaining, the expansion of sectoral contracts, who sought to double the collective redundancies, the lockout, the opening of shops all Sundays? Don't you know who wanted on 5 December a decade's primary surpluses at 3.5%? Do you not know who canceled the Tsakalotou proposal to use 1% of the primary surpluses for tax and insurance relief? Do you not know who is blackmailing that there are no concrete restructuring measures, sustainable debt service before the German elections? If you know all this, what exactly do you propose? Are you suggesting that we cancel the compromise agreement at technical level? Are you suggesting that we continue the negotiations until the International Monetary Fund and Germany retreat? Is that what you suggest? Is there not a positive assessment of the third convention at the Eurogroup meeting on 22 May? May we cause a rupture? You even used an objection of unconstitutionality. Where do you want us to lead to elections now? They don't, dear friends. The elections will take place when we lead the country to all that is an overall holistic reconstruction programme.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u317	Finish, Mr. Papadopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u318	In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that we do not need new funding from creditors. It is enough to pay EUR 7 billion of the contract to pay the unpaid debts of the public. It is enough to reduce debt payments if we really manage to achieve the debt settlement. It is enough for the 80 million we get from the European Social Fund to be able to reform the primary health system. It is enough for the 300 million a year that Alexis Haritsis analysed before for the Public Investment Programme. I will not analyse you - because I did so yesterday - the positive aspects involved in matters relating to health, supplies and pharmaceutical policy. Paul Paulakis did it yesterday. I imagine Andreas Blonde will talk. What I would like to end by saying is that, with the data available, we will be judged on our ability to carry out the difficult task that we have undertaken following the second popular mandate. Above all, we must prove the alternative, indestructive, left-wing model of governance, with zero tolerance for the dismantling of public money, the reduction of inequalities, the spectacular increase in fixed employment, the productive reconstruction of the COMPA, community centres, the entire day-to-day schools, the strengthening teaching, producer groups, the national register of executives. We shall be judged at the end of the four-year period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u319	The Parliamentary spokesman from Potami Mr Amyras has the floor. Here, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u320	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, Mr Papadopoulos is the luckiest of the Chamber today. It worked jackpot. And the Prime Minister is in the Chamber and the President of the Parliament is in the Chamber, especially the students from his constituency. Ladies and gentlemen, Cyprus is celebrating today. Cyprus President Nikos Anastasiades announced an increase in the GDP of Cyprus in the first quarter of 2017 by 3.3%. We've got a different way here. ELSTAT announced for the same period of 0.5%, much under quite optimistic and the most optimistic - for the pessimists - forecasts, that is, we have a recession. Depression in Greece, growth in Cyprus. Cyprus entered the memorandum in 2013 and came out in 2016. Did we enter 2010 and go out when? 2021 and then. What is the secret to the success of the Cypriots that we're still missing here? Three things President Anastasiades said: Good fiscal policy, faith in the necessary reforms and attraction of investments. And here we come to the draft law, Memorandum number 4, if you like, in the second Memorandum of Tsipras - Kammenos, which gives us feelings of grief. Affliction, because after seven years of painful memorialism and politics, austerity is not only stirred up, but becomes more profound, becoming harder, is burdened with the lower incomes in the searcher. Low wages of five hundred and six hundred euros will lose one month a year, because the tax will take it away from the tax reduction. Pensioners will lose from two to four pensions, please, and the committee will not finish. The committee does not end, that is the big problem. The question is: Is what you said to us, Prime Minister, 'not a euro measure'? Because if we put it down from the report and the report from the General Accounting Office of the State, we have the fact that in 2019 pensions and allowances will be reduced by EUR 2,262 billion and subsidiary EUR 232 million, i.e. cut pensions by EUR 2,5 billion in 2019. From the reduction of the tax rate, the General Accounting Office estimates that it will receive EUR 1.9 billion, a total of approximately EUR 4.5 billion. If we also take the abolition of tax exemptions for medical expenses and the increase in contributions and the abolition of a 1.5% reduction for employees, we have reached nearly EUR 5 billion. The programme is therefore not budgetaryly neutral. When, Prime Minister, you said 'neither a euro measure' - as Mr Philis rightly said at the time - you said so to hear it, but the low-pensions and weak employees heard it. Now others see it, though. I'm coming to the great countermeasures. Well, first of all, let's say you're a little spoiled by the citizens. Can I remind you of the Thessaloniki program? How many billions have you given with Thessaloniki's program? Twelve billion? May I remind you of the parallel programme of September 2015 that would neutralize your first memorandum? I can't see any of this. But let's go see. So we read as countermeasures: housing allowance. New kindergartens. School meals. Reduction of drug involvement. A small reduction in the EMI and a degression of tax rates to incomes and a contribution of solidarity. That's right. With you and me. I'll vote for it. But who's gonna decide? Who decides? Article 15 of the bill is creepy because it demolishes the respective Minister of Finance, the Greek Minister of Finance, to an existing IMF official, Mr. Thompsen. It therefore says Article 15: 'The countermeasures shall be applied provided that there is no deviation from the budgetary objectives'. So there is, firstly, a clear cult of whether or not the countermeasures will be implemented. But who will decide? The IMF, the European Central Bank, the European Stability Mechanism and the Commission in cooperation with the Greek authorities. If, however, they anticipate - and first of all the IMF - that we will be deficient, the countermeasures will not be approved. And here, Mr President-in-Office, I say to you: Put a provision that says, regardless of what the IMF will say, that we countermeasures will be implemented and I will vote against the countermeasures, but not in sectarian terms and decide on the IMF. It's not the worst part. He's going further. You give the IMF the key role of the primary evaluator of the Greek economy, because it says the wording of the provision in Article 15: 'The IMF, in cooperation with the European institutions and the Greek authorities, will assess whether the reduction in duty should apply from 2019', i.e. a year earlier if the IMF decides, but the IMF will be the main player, the main evaluator of the Greek economy? Didn't you say that the IMF can't hit a budget "beaks" or two meters? The Prime Minister rightly said in December that the IMF fell forty times outside the surplus that it estimated for 2016? He estimated 0.1% the IMF, 4.2% finally it was. To these staff of the IMF, will we trust the Greek economy's assessment that, as I said before, they cannot hit a budget "beaks" in two meters? Let me use the example differently. It is important, because if the IMF is making a negative assessment, no more countermeasures. What is likely is Scarlett Johanson to request an appointment from Mr. Tsakalotos, and not the other way round, rather than Tomsen to make a positive assessment of the Greek economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u321	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u322	You're welcome, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, instead of agreeing on new funding without new measures, it has become the exact opposite. Instead of tearing the Memorandum, with this new Memorandum, you dismantle wages and pensions. Instead of reducing the bloody surpluses of the next few years by 2022, you keep them huge. You accept the huge surpluses. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to mislead Mr Tsakalotos anymore, but I would also like to disagree with Mr Loverdos and Mr Vorides and tell them that they are wrong to ask Mr Tsakalotos to resign because he has accepted the tax reduction. Mr Tsakalotos - if I may, Minister, the expression, the shape of speech in order not to mislead you - has already resigned, and he probably does not know it, because it is not on the one hand possible for the IMF to be the main player and evaluator of the Greek economy and for countermeasures. On the one hand, it is not possible for dutyfree to reach 5,600 euros and for him not to move from his position and, on the other hand, to say "in other words to be loved". Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to show you a table from a company that sent me: an anonymous company, if it has a net profit of EUR 100,000, do you know how much remains of the net profits of EUR 100,000 in the business and business pocket? There's 25,000 euros left. Is that a healthy investment climate?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u323	An anonymous company?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u324	Don't question it. U.S., money a year of 100,000 euros. A profit tax? 29%. Put aside EUR 29,000. A 100% deposit for the other year? There's 29,000 more.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u325	That's one-off. They'll be removed from the next one.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u326	Just once, but he'll give it the same year. Are you going to drive me crazy? Trade fee: 1.600 euros. The corresponding dividend tax of 15% is 6,000 euros. For contributions, it's another 26.95%. What's left?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u327	You destroyed them!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u328	Please, please, and IFCA for the entrepreneur's reward. What's left?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u329	Nothing, get out of here!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u330	Oh, you think she'll leave! Go where, in Bulgaria? Should others go to Bulgaria? Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u331	The way you describe it...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u332	It was a figure of speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u333	Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by saying that the way out of the committee is not yet a memorandum, but it is the way Cyprus has shown us. A good fiscal policy, investment and I will add, an absolute segregation, an absolute alienation of the state, of public administration from the parties. That is why you accept our proposal that the parties do not receive a single euro subsidy from the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u334	Thank you too, Mr. Amyras. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, twenty-two students and students and five teachers from the 1st and 2nd Municipal School of Philiatric Thesprotia. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Vice-President of the Government, Mr Drasakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u335	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the current government was chosen by the citizens of our country for three reasons: firstly, to get the country out of the memoranda and end the comitology. Secondly, in order to bring before justice scandal cases and to break up public money and to tackle through political and institutional means the deepest causes of corruption and complexity. Thirdly, in order to change the country's unsustainable and unjust productive model and the functioning of the state, strengthen the country's international position and improve European and international links for the benefit of our positions. The government will be judged by the citizens at the end of its term of office by its overall performance and, of course, by its performance in these three areas. From this point of view, the bill we are discussing today is crucial to achieving the first objective, but it is also a precondition for others. Because, ladies and gentlemen, it is not right and sometimes it is immoral to forget fundamental facts which have marked the fate of our people and country. And one fact, which must not be forgotten during these debates, because we are still facing this, is the bankruptcy of the Greek state, which you have brought to bear by the forces that you have been running the country with what you have done and, above all, with what you have not done in the years before the crisis, and the fact that many of these things have been said long before the crisis. The fact is, too, - and it must not be forgotten - that subjection to the memorandum and the committee has resulted in us losing as an important part of our political autonomy. With these facts, which are known to everyone, but some want to forget them, the only way to regain control of our destiny and our future is to end our dependence on foreign institutional lending, so that the debt becomes sustainable, and on this basis to claim the end of the memoranda and the end of the committee. And I say we will claim, because the exit from the memoranda and the committee will not be a typical automatic process, but it will be a course with traps and risks. That is why, in this claim, it is crucial and the involvement and support of society, I would also say the responsibility of the other political forces, regardless of the individual differences in other issues. This is because there are forces among our lenders - and the Greek people must know that - who perceive the debt not as an economic size, but as a political lever of lasting pressure on the policy they consider right. The same forces also perceive the commission as a permanent regime. That is precisely why the Prime Minister, at the recent meeting of the Ministerial Council, stressed the need for a great deal to be done before, but also after the end of the memoranda, if we want this to be a final one. These difficulties, after all, appeared. The way to get this far was full of obstacles. Today, however, I do not think there is anyone in the country or abroad, except perhaps some of the Anti-Population, who refuse, not to see, to recognise that the cause of these delays was not the Greek Government, but the differences and contradictions between the lenders and the measures outside the original agreement requested above all by the International Monetary Fund. I should like at this point to give a response to the 'Gebelis' of the New Democracy, who are cutting and sewing statements from the past to build propaganda regimes, but also to others, because I see that others are saying this 'what you say at the time, no measures' and others. I would like to say that, as far as I am concerned, I do not withdraw anything from what I have said in the past, at the beginning of the negotiation, and I would say the same today, if the data had not been changed. If the International Monetary Fund today required us to reduce the tax-free threshold and all the revenues to reduce the tax rates for high and high incomes, then the country's political situation might have been different today. However, as a result of the negotiation of significant displacements in the original data: Firstly, new measures amounting to EUR 4.6 billion were originally requested without countermeasures. We now have negative measures, but they are offset budgetaryly and their social consequences are balanced with other positive measures. Secondly, new measures were originally requested without any commitment to debt regulation. Now everything we legislate is part of a comprehensive agreement, an overall agreement, which will contain the debt measures. Thirdly, we were originally asked for surpluses of 3.5% over ten years after 2018. Now the discussions are taking place for far shorter periods. We have therefore had very important data, and so we cannot now say the same thing that we would say if there were no such data. The New Democracy blames the MPs for voting everything for their chairs, as they say. Let me make a few comments, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy. Don't judge the odds yourself. If some of you so perceive politics, it does not mean that we all understand politics in the same way. Secondly, the MPs - and all of us - are not voting on everything. We are appraising the outcome of the negotiation and voting for it, since we consider and appreciate that it is part of our objectives and serves the interests of the country. Thirdly, this bill will be passed, because despite its negative and difficult points, it has two very strong features: Firstly, it incorporates the principle of budgetary neutrality, which no one should underestimate, even if it disagrees with the bill, as well as the logic of balancing the social consequences of the measures through other measures, the countermeasures, as established. If these two authorities had claimed from previous governments, even at a time when the deficits had been reduced and were in place, then we can say with certainty that the exit from the memoranda would have already occurred - to answer Mr Amyras' question - and the social costs would have been much more mild, so it is purely propaganda that the comparison, matching and comparison of these measures with a memorandum in general. Secondly, and even more critically, today's agreement can be conditional, as I said, to unlock the procedures for the purpose of ending the memoranda and the committee. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that what is bothering some of the leadership of the New Democracy and PASOK is different. It is that the people with their vote in January 2015 broke the monopoly of their bipartite authority. Because what has happened was not just a change within the existing system of power, but it was the beginning of its prerogative. Of course, we are still at the beginning of the day. Because deep changes, radical reforms, major transformations in the state, in the economy, in society are ahead of us. That is why demands for elections fall into the vacancy. That is why this government shows a resilience which creates curiosity and questions, despite the difficult decisions we take. [[At this point, the warning bell closes the speaking time of the Vice-President of the Government]] I shall conclude, Mr President. But the place does not only need a resilient government. It also needs a responsible Civic Opposition and responsible ones - I would add - social representations. I am pleased that many and many people now recognise this need both through New Democracy and through social and professional organisations. For the first time since the crisis, therefore, conditions are being created to design the future in a horizon not only for two years, but once the agreement has been concluded with the debt measures and one is set much longer, beyond the decade. With the adoption of this bill and with the completion of the agreement, new data are therefore created. Let us use them for the benefit of society and the new generation. That is the proposal we are making as government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u336	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr Hatzidakis, Member of the European Parliament and Vice-President of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u337	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Drasakis told us that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government was formed for three reasons: to leave the country from the memoranda, to have transparency by investigating scandals and to adopt a productive model new. Let's look at all three. So you're here to remove the memos. You, the most remembranced of all, are today adopting the fourth Memorandum, having previously voted on the third. Why tell me, ladies and gentlemen - and I want you to think about it this evening in your home, are you against your conscience in view of tomorrow's vote - what is the fourth memorandum of understanding of measures for the period 2019-2020, that is, when today's memorandum has expired? What is the control of the International Monetary Fund for the infamous countermeasures for the period 2019-2020, when the current memorandum has expired? Is it in the other countries that have left the memorandum, in Cyprus, in Ireland, in Portugal today the International Monetary Fund and control them for such acts? But I would like him to reply to me - I do not know if he is here - and Mr Drasakis himself, because I have a statement here, which I found on 'KRITT TV' on 28 January 2017.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u338	You're making advertising.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u339	I want to be precise, Mr. Comrade. Mr Drasakis says today's measures: 'We must therefore say that these measures are out of agreement...' he wants to say outside the third memorandum, '... therefore they should not be taken. Secondly, it is undemocratic today to vote for measures that will take a parliament tomorrow, whether we or someone else." Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, the Vice-President of the Government tells you today that you are voting on measures that are undemocratic. Reply, you and the Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u340	Below what's he saying? Do you mind, Mr. Hatzidakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u341	In the end, Mr. Drasakis. I also add to you that you are saying that you are leaving the memorandum: Do you know or do you not know that after the second recapitalisation after the Baroufakis negotiation, SSM will be here and will essentially serve the Greek banking system, in a way that is unprecedented for European data, for about thirty-five years, as long as the loans last? Do you know or do you not know that you, the government that would restore national sovereignty, are the ones who installed the superstate, which will be here for ninety-eight years from today? Ladies and gentlemen, has your conscience gone on a trip? Where is he? And I keep going. Mr. Drasakis said that at the beginning of the negotiation you were asked for very tough measures. What were the tough measures? It was 3.6 billion, I was reading in the papers, without the government denying them. And from 3.6 billion with the tough negotiation, you reached 4.9. Even worse, the economy had been at some rate of unstable growth in the summer of 2016 - I do not want to blame you - and then, with this proud negotiation, the economy resurpassed the well of recession. At this time Greece is the only eurozone country that is in recession. That was the government's result? Is that why it was the delay and the positive effect it would have on Greek citizens? Am I saying something inaccurate? Did I just see there's a recession? It was announced yesterday or the day before, when it was, the Hellenic Statistical Authority. I'm going on below. You said you came with a second order to exalt public life from scandals. Yes, sir. What do I remember? Tell me if I'm wrong. Three committees of inquiry have been carried out. The first was for the first and second memorials. You were so sensitive to the detection of things that after the September 2015 elections, you forgot about it. It was established before the September elections and after the elections you abandoned it. Immediately after you did the Committee of Inquiry into the parties and the media, their loans. Where did this notorious committee end up? That there was no responsibility and you were resuspending the file back to the prosecutors, who had started doing their job for years anyway. The third committee of inquiry was for the former Minister of Defence of PASOK, which we voted for, of course, but from what I understand it will end up declaring itself irresponsible. I don't know if I'm wrong. It'll show up in the next few days. So this is the great success you have in the second area of public life refining. Oh, I forgot, you have the success with Mr. Kalogrica and his pastures, as well as with Mr. Savvidis and the amendment brought by Mr. Kosanis on a matter of Xanthi. Don't blame you, you've done that. Then we come to the issue of the country's productive model. Yes, sir. You were very productive, so productive that while there were predictions that we would have growth in 2015, 2016, in 2017 by the Commission, which you invoke, then the country regressed, returned backwards and as I noted earlier, we are the only country in the Eurozone with recession. Now, since you're talking about a productive model, weren't you the ones committed not to anything important, but to present a development plan by March 2016? You were tied up in the summer of 2015. Well, now it is May 2017 and you have not succeeded in sending five pages to the European Commission about how you see the development of the country and you will rely on the country to move forward with investment. I'm going further. The productive model in your theory is to believe that silo at the port of Piraeus is an archaeological monument and that the old airport of the Greek is also a monument of antiquity. Apparently, your historical knowledge has led you to believe that there were the planes of Pericleus during the Peloponnese War. And if you don't believe me about how you're going, I want you to believe someone else, whose statement I will read at this time: "Ladies and gentlemen, it's absolutely impossible for primary surpluses of 3.5% after 2018 to be maintained and, indeed, for several years, unless we want to drown" the Greek economy and keep having long-term stagnation conditions." Who said that, ladies and gentlemen? Tell me about it. Who said that? Who said that with 3.5% we will have a stagnation for many years in the Greek economy and we will be choking it up already? Who said that? Does anyone suspect? Well, Alexis Tsipras said so. The Prime Minister said that with your policy you are leading the Greek economy to'smoking'. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So leave all this and, above all, stop celebrating, because you are insulting the Greek citizens and even more so the voters, the poor people who believed in you. Stop the festivities at last. But, of course, I might ask for a lot, because I know you're a government with a torque to the fairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u342	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u343	The Vice-President of the Government, Mr Drasakis, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u344	Mr Hatzidakis, we have unfortunately not received any development plan to improve it and bring it forward. But in a few months, we'll have what you haven't been able to do for years. I come back to this little piece of paper that students have in the exams, the dust. I saw you had a little dust and you had to read it. I've already answered what you said. We were asked in December for austerity measures without a commitment to debt. We were asked for class, discriminatory measures. Mr Tomsen wrote it in his personal articles, in his blog, to reduce the tax-free threshold and with the revenue we will have as a state to reduce the taxation of very high incomes. I can't rule it out if you want this, too, by the way. That is what I and others have been commenting on and said that we will not accept - and I have said - that such measures will not be accepted. And I'm telling you about the story that if we had these measures, first, we wouldn't even get here. We had some displacements. You can evaluate them. You can say you don't judge them enough. But the reforms were qualitative. That is why the Prime Minister has said that even now that we are talking about - because the disagreement between creditors and lenders seems to remain, there are some disagreements - if we do not have what we call a 'total agreement', then there will be a matter. So all this propaganda 'you were saying, but you did etc.' is already answered. I understand that the New Democracy is on a transition. When he said the economy was falling apart, the government is in deadlock, rating or elections, I understand that you are now looking for a new account. The new account is that: "Good, this has happened. It is not so serious and serious to concern us." That's where you're on this line. I hope others are on your line, because there are worse ones. There are worse voices in the New Democracy. The last thing I want to say - to say again - is that you and we in Greece have been accustomed to having a left, to which we belonged, confined ourselves to resistance to what you did. Today we are trying to create a new model of the Left, which will also be radical, but will also claim and exercise government power for the Greek people. In your view, therefore, you do not have a temporary situation, you do not have an intervention. You have a new reality, not only because SYRIZA will have been in the government for years, but also because when it leaves it will be a force that reclaims authority from whoever has it. So agree with a reality. We have a new Left in the country, which even the resistance knows how to make proposals and know how to make and claim them both within the country and in Europe, and wherever necessary.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u345	Mr President, I would like to speak for a moment, please. I won't be arson!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u346	Mr. Hatzidakis, we come out of the Rules of Procedure and you know it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u347	I will speak for a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u348	So you're asking for the floor on personal grounds?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u349	Let's call it that. I'm not the most troubled person in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u350	You have the floor on staff for a minute. Because we must also apply the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u351	I want to say two things, Mr President. I have presented two statements: one by Mr Drasakis, who said that the prerogative is something undemocratic and that is what the government is doing today. I didn't hear an answer to that. So I'm confirmed by Mr. Drasakis. Secondly, I have presented a statement by Mr Tsipras, who said that 3.5% of primary surpluses over a number of years are equivalent to 'dreaming' in the economy and at the same time the government majority claims that we are currently entering the path of growth. Mr Drasakis also said earlier that we were asked for class discriminatory measures, and we refused that. Yes, sir! And what did you bring, Mr. Drasakis, here today? You have brought a reduction in tax, which I do not think is about the industrialists and shipowners, but the employees, because they have incomes between EUR 5,800 and EUR 9,000. They're the ones who cut a paycheck. In the same sense, which makes the poorest, you also cut two pensions on average by pensioners if we combine the reduction in pensions with the reduction in tax.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u352	Please, Mr. Hatzidakis, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u353	Therefore, from 'Robin of the poor', your Government has become the government, which impoverishes the poor. That's what this is!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u354	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u355	Mr Vice-President, you have the floor, but to conclude.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u356	We brought what the lenders were asking for, amended on the basis of the negotiation we made. What would you bring? Anything you've always brought.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u357	If you're asking me, let me answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u358	You brought what you were offered. That is why I said that the new element we have today is the budgetary neutrality of the measures, their social balance, to some extent. We recognize that. And what comes here is a compromise. It is what the lenders wanted and what we, Mr Tsakalots and the entire government wanted to achieve. I have not heard what you propose and what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u359	But there was no such thing, Mr. Vice President. I've got all the e-mails.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u360	A benchmark, whether you like it or not, even with this policy that we are pursuing, which has many elements that we would not do, if we could avoid them, is what you have done, which have impoverished and undermined society and led to a collapse of the economy. It is this drama, which we are living and trying to put off the path to the ground, which we have achieved, and to start recovery and exit from this tunnel. He wants to be modest when you talk about these things.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u361	Mr. Emmanoulidis, SYRIZA Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u362	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the drama experienced by the country and our people in the years of the memoranda focuses on three words, which are taken away from James Campanell's emblematic motif "The cannon and the sunrise": "Where did he leave the oil?", "Where did he leave the oil?", "Where did he leave the oil?" The Italian commander asks me one-sided question. When the church commissioner, the village’s president goes to the Italian commander during the Occupation, asking him for oil to oil the church clock that is rusty, the Italian commander gives them an oil can. After a few days the clock hasn't worked. In the question, why has it not worked, there is a trace of oil from the can given, only a minimum sample, unable to put the clock into operation. That's the reality, gentlemen. Where have the 320 billion people gone all these years of PASOK and New Democracy government? You will tell me: 'They went to development'. What growth? The complete deindustrialization has taken place all these years of your development paradise. I would like to give you a list of the projects and the days of your investment take-off of your governments in all the post-cultural years: The chain of padlocks in the Greek industry is opened by TGIAR, followed by companies such as the "PHILITIS CLOSES", the company ROKA, the sale of the "STIMITES OF CALCIDA", and the mines - formerly "SKALISTI" - the closure of the "PHOTOS LIMITS", the package in "PLATS KAVALAS" and the "CALCIDIA" - the closure of the production lines of "BIAMIL". In the 1990s we had the enclosures in the International Clothing Industry in Kalamata, Laurent, to the ferry company "DANE". The collapse of the historical tobacco industry "KERANI", while the groups "LANARA-ARGYROY" completed their cycle, essentially writing the epilogue of the Greek textiles. And we come to the times of the Memorandum Crisis: It closes the Smoking Smoking Smoking Smoking Smoking in Xanthi. In 2011, he enters the "HALYBOURGIA GREECE" factory in Elefsina. In July 2012, the ‘CARTON TREATY’ is closed. A year later, the "DELICA" factory in Patras closes. In March 2013, the “AGET HERAKLIS” proceeds to close the Chalkida factory. In the same year, the 'CAPNOBIMAN AGRICULTURAL AGRICULTURAL AGRICULTURAL AGRICULTURAL AGRICULTURAL AGRICULTURAL AGRICULTURAL AGRICULTURAL AGRICULTURAL AGRICULTURAL AGRICULTURAL AGRICULTURAL AGRICULTURAL AGRICULTURAL In November 2013, he closes the “ALUMIL” plant in Xanthi. In 2014, the resolution of the company ‘BIOMEK’, which was active in the metal structures, was decided. In 2014, also, NEOSET closes. The largest wood industry in the Balkans is bankrupt in the same year. In the Komotini industrial area, for example, from the seventy planted plants in 2014 operate less than thirty-five. These are as a response to the investment paradise that Mrs Bakoyannis, with no evidence of self-criticism, presented by Mrs Bakoyannis. And the question comes: Where did the money go, the 320 billion? It is well known, 'SIEMENS', but beyond that we have the total collapse of agricultural production. Where was your interest, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and PASOK, all these years of economic take-off? Through intensification practices we have led farmers to despair. And we come today through ruins to set up an effort - so far effective - on productive reconstruction in the primary sector. That is the situation we have received. On this we had to fight all these two - bloody for us and much more for the world - years. You're accusing us of being hooked up in chairs. Each of us has a route that is known in local communities. Through daily struggle, we have become and our term here is nothing but a high sense of historical and social responsibility towards our country. You believed in the brief parentheses. In terms of mathematics, I will say that this parentheses become elusive and will proceed to a hook for just one reason, because we have not lost contact with society. The measures may be hard, but they create in combination with the countermeasures that social counterweight which actually gives room for social cohesion. Of course, measures one aim only: to take the place out of the deadlock in which you have led society. This deadlock has a runway, it has space, it has time. It's the quantitative relaxation. It's the ESDP program. It is productive reconstruction through the development programme. Of course it is - and that is of particular value - the write-down of debt in order to create the conditions of a more humane tomorrow. If society today is in pain, it knows very well that it has no other supporter, only the place it has trusted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u363	Thank you. Mr Papatheodorou, PASOK Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u364	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, by voting for the fourth memorandum, the government's majority is causing the vast majority of citizens, especially the populaces, through the conscious concealment and distortion of reality, but also with the indifference with which they face the criticism and voice of society. What does society want to hear? She's asking you to hear that the numbers for the small and medium-sized household aren't coming out. It calls for you to understand that the reductions you impose on wages and pensions are excruciating and further impoverish the already poor and low pensioners. The five billion measures you bring up to 2021 are imposed on a dead society, on a kneeled society, on young people in desperation of unemployment or on new immigration. Let us see, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, what you agree with from the measures you want to convince us that they are for the sake of the country. Do you agree, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL, with a pension-cutting bill, reduce tax, reduce allowances and bring changes to labour, payroll and government? Do you agree with the non-pensional provisions, which curtail from 1 January 2019, the family benefit and the spouse's allowance for public and private pensions respectively? The personal difference in basic and supplementary pensions will be reduced by 18%. And, of course, its adjustment to pensions, that is to say, the increase, goes to January 1, 2022 and then we see. I also ask: will you vote on the reduction of the tax payable by EUR 650 on wage and pension income, with effect from 1 January 2020 or from 2019, if we do not get the surpluses of 3.5%? Since you like numbers, ladies and gentlemen of the conflict, do you realize that this burden is at an average of 32.75%, while against this 32.75% burden you propose as a countermeasure that the income tax will be reduced by 2%, from 22% to 20%? Are these the countermeasures? Is that what you want to convince the Greek people that there is a neutral financial result? In insurance, you are voting in "global first" on your invention to calculate insurance contributions on insurance contributions. Last year's taxable income will no longer be deducted from the insurance contributions for freelance professionals and farmers. In other words, tombstone for the incomes of free professionals and farmers. You are bringing the electronic auctions to a vote. The Minister has already told us that it is a matter of transparency. We have never said that electronic auctions are not a matter of transparency. What we are saying is that the electronic auctions of the debtors' movable and immovable property, three times a week, by fast track procedures, will bring the property to be sold out, leaving the debt to the debtors, and even by thousands. There is the problem, not whether there is transparency or not in electronic auctioning. This is the largest redistribution of property over the past thirty years with a visible risk of plundering private wealth by the funds. As regards the reduction of special wages, the Scientific Council of Parliament today points out that it is unconstitutional and that the provisions are problematic. Why? Because the special salary was provided precisely because it considers the Constitution that these professional classes, these functions, these employees, need greater protection because of the conditions under which they are serving. Nowadays, the lie you said, "we will not hurt the special payrolls", all this time to all officials and employees. With the fourth memorandum you are voting on, payroll payrolls of two speeds are being created, especially from young people entering the Security Body. For thousands of uniforms their wage promotion will be stopped at twenty-nine years of service and for eleven years, up to forty years, they will not have any wage developments. Security officers with thirty years of service, with the new salary bill, will now have a personal difference of around EUR 240 a month and this personal difference will never be covered. With the fourth memorandum, the personal difference - and we told you yesterday in the committee - is now about 95% of the mandates, and only 5% of them will get small increases. Universities, whom the Minister of Education has made promises to increase, today understand that they lose one wage per year, with what you will vote for and an indirect increase in their taxation after the introduction of benefits into basic wages. You demand universities and researchers and you lead them to new immigration. We ask you to withdraw the special payroll provisions from yesterday. At least for the uniforms, recognize military years, as they used to be. They've been paying for these years. Or give the frontier allowance to all uniforms and not only to soldiers. Moreover, the Government has defrauded workers, concerning the recruitment of contractors in the LAGs and in the wider public sector. In the fourth Memorandum, there is no intake for 2018 and 2019 for municipalities and regions. In response to the 5 billion new measures in the memorandum, the Government today puts forward as compensation the alleged countermeasures that will be implemented, but after the project was completed in 2018. However, it hides from the Greek people that the financing of the countermeasures will come from overcrowding beyond 3.5%, which will again be called upon to pay for the Greek people, will be called upon to pay for the Greek citizen. This is political deception. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, not a minute more really. The people today know that the so-called countermeasures are not social policy. Nothing more will be given to him than he will pay with blood sacrifices all over the next period. The countermeasures are not for citizens. It's your alibi to vote for the fourth memorandum. That is why we in the Democratic Assent are calling for this policy to be changed. We are calling for a change of relations in the House and in society. Outside are and protest people you've fooled and remember. That is why we are proposing a change of policy, with a national understanding, in order to negotiate to reduce surpluses in a national context for attracting investment, a stable tax system, the activation of the social and productive forces of the country, to get the country out of the stagnation in which you have led it. That is why the fourth Memorandum you will be voting on will be the final condemnation of you in the consciousness of the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u365	Thank you, too. The Minister of Home Affairs, Mr. Skourletis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u366	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, if it has a real value that is of great interest to all the Greek people today, it is because it gives us the opportunity to give answers to justified concerns, to explain how things have been driven up here, to present the difficulties, to highlight the bets of the next period without certainty and to highlight the challenges and all that we are forced to explain to the Greek citizens every day, who have been in this policy of lasting austerity since 2010. On the contrary, it is of very little value to make a comparison of the current policy, the current situation with that of our predecessors, because things speak for themselves. This comparison has been made first and foremost in the consciousness of the Greek people and on a daily basis, the essential qualitative difference between the current government and the previous PASOK and New Democracy governments is confirmed, especially because, in relation to the austerity austerity since 2010, we have a policy that does not escape as to its basic characteristics which are imposed by the logic of the agreement that we signed last summer, in the summer of 2015, but clearly is much weaker and, above all, has specific concerns, which show a truly different social sensitivity. Ladies and gentlemen, we have no intention of defending a policy which we first said we do not adopt or delusion that, with the measures we are taking at the moment, in the objectively difficult circumstances, we are turning back to the world of work and the weakest of what has been lost in recent years. Unfortunately, it is very easy to tear down things and very difficult to conquer and win. It is very difficult on the social ruins that you inherited us to be able to re-create an economy standing on its feet. However, it seems that for the first time after 2010, in the current year, but also in 2018, there are really possibilities for us to have a marked developmental path, which is translated into new jobs, new investments and, obviously, significant growth and growth rates of Gross National Product. Ladies and gentlemen, in fact, such a course of the economy that is absolutely realistic will give a new dynamic so that even today's measures that are being voted on in 2019 and then, we can approach them in a different way, because this requires a political approach and a reading of things. After all, all this time on the one hand and on the other hand - that, of course, applies mainly to our own years - in the context of this agreement that we signed in the summer of 2015, the negotiation was such that they raised issues. It was not an ex ante agenda, which at least the side of the lenders seemed not to respect it at all stages. Even more so, even you who are in favour of extreme liberalism, who swear on extreme austerity policies, are talking about negotiating the primary surpluses for 2%, as your Chief said, if I'm not mistaken. You adopt this communication policy: What you have as a disadvantage and it has been fully understood that it is the Achilles heel of your policy, you are currently trying to transfer it to us, to your political opponents. For example, you are talking about a new complication when you were completely screwed up in the complex. We were not the ones who suddenly discovered where 2% of the 'Siemens' black fund was going. I say this example, which is the fattest, the easiest thing to say, not to say about all that system of media overlapping. We were not the ones who have been in the difficult negotiations since the first day we took over the government, and we have been in coordination with those who have asked for everything here and now. You did it! You do it! You, in fact, denounced the current government that it cannot implement this policy because it does not believe it. And so you called on the world to support the "automatic" of this policy, which is your program against us. I repeat, if that is the comparison, we are directly telling you that we are giving you this policy. We're forced to run. However, we know that we are obliged not to leave this society free of extremist neoliberalism, whose most original expression is the policy of the memorials. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, without certainties and illusions, there are some issues which should be understood. I would also like to mention here, in particular, the issues relating to local government and related to the medium-term programme. When we discussed the 2017 budget, we said as government that it would be the last budget where there would be a reduction in state subsidies. This is confirmed by today's medium-term programme that you have before you. In the first phase of 2018, there is provision for an increase, in the first phase, of the state grant of around EUR 300 million, although within the estimates of the medium-term programme - and that is perfectly understandable, because such planning is being done on the basis of current data - the current institutional reform, which is currently under way and which, obviously, after its completion, enables us to carry out new kinds of constructive and better changes in the medium-term programme. Ladies and gentlemen, you will never hear us agree to the idea that austerity is a one-way path. You have long adopted this when your ideological reports remind us of all those who have written about the end of history. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a criticism which is reasonable: "But, right now, can we legislate for after 2019?" In fact, on this reasonable question, which I will comment on shortly afterwards, you build your own storage for the existence of a new memorandum. I think that this is quite easy to answer, because obviously a new memorandum means a new loan contract and all the rest that our people and our country have had since 2010. But there is a reality, which we are prepared to discuss first of all with Greek society and the European peoples, that, despite the end of the memoranda, the concept of the surveillance of economies by the strong neoliberal European economic centres is a reality. We were the ones who were calling a few years ago about the constitutionalisation of neoliberalism through the new European treaties. This is a reality that we need to discuss, because through the adoption of these present dominant neoliberal strategies, the big problem of Europe's prospect is also emerging. If Europe is now more than ever closer to its degradation, if today Euroscepticism, conservative, right-wing Euroscepticism, lifts a head, precisely because of the prevalence of anti-social, neoliberal policies, which have highlighted the concept of united Europe with the greatest inequalities, the reduction of the social state and the eruption of unemployment. These are the issues that you cannot even touch. Do you know why? Because you are indeed - and in the conscience of the world, but also objectively - the guardians of the most extreme neoliberal views. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Minister hits the warning bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the objective remains to leave the memorandum. The objective remains to be able to restore at least part of the major injustices which have been done at the expense of the world of work. The goal remains for the country to regain its lost freedom within the European Union for another European Union. And what we can promise in today's debate is that, first of all, we feel obliged to discuss and explain to the world what the difficulties are, what the possibilities are, what the bet is and exactly what the stake is. It is on these questions that will determine the effectiveness, sustainability and course of this government, and not, of course, on the basis of a false communication policy, which you are doing together with your 'friends' of the media, and it seems to be becoming less and less persuasive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u367	The Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mrs Ahtsoglou, has the floor for three minutes to table legislation. And then Mr. Loverdos has the floor. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u368	Thank you, Mr President. I'm making four legislative improvements to the draft law. I would like to mention, in particular, that one of them is an improvement addition to the provision for collective bargaining. Before, as we had had the provision, we actually mentioned that Article 37(5) and (6) ‘is applicable until the end of the budgetary adjustment programme’. This was not fully correct in law, because these paragraphs themselves have within them ‘all the duration of the medium-term’. So, now, with legislative improvement, we go into the provision of Law 4024/2011 and replace the phrase "As long as the medium-term programme lasts" with the words "until the end of the economic adjustment programme". On the substance, they remain what I have argued about and I will argue tomorrow. The next point to be mentioned is that the time of unjustified absence of trade unions, with the one that applies to the simple worker, namely the three days that apply to the simple worker, is the same as the time of unjustified absence of trade unions. I am therefore tabling the legislative improvements here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u369	Please, the proposed legislative improvements to be distributed to colleagues. Mr Loverdos, Parliamentary spokesman for the PASOK - DIMAR, for twelve minutes. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u370	Ladies and gentlemen, the crisis that broke out in 2009 is already in its second phase, the second unnecessary phase of the crisis caused by SYRIZA and ANEL. Let us not forget - we will always remind the House - that, first and foremost, we as PASOK managed the crisis patriotically, without second thoughts and as it has been proved - and we all know - at a huge political cost. And later, and to her honor, New Democracy followed. And in 2014, along with all the states of the European Union that had entered the crisis, we were also dating them, coming out of the adventure of the memorials, without all the difficulties being overcome. But we were following a course of exit from all that we lived from 2009 onwards, and we and the others. The others moved on. Our course was stopped by those who threw the then government, to inaugurate the period of Varoufakis and with this period to inaugurate the second phase of the crisis, with the two unnecessarily extra memorials. Especially for insurance, which concerns us with this draft law, policy 2015-2017 was devastating. The government began by waiving my own law, making benefits, but signed the third, unnecessarily memorable memorandum in July and began getting the benefits back and making huge cuts. And because Members were allowed to say various things, on the basis of impressions rather than on the basis of reality - the majority Members, I mean - I want to make a reference to some figures and percentages and to table a text: The numbers are relentless. And the numbers are numbers, they are not concepts and they do not allow any intellectual political excursion. The cuts in our period, as PASOK, were in total 11% and we never bothered low pensions, about 13% were the cuts in the main responsibility of the New Democracy and 20% are the current cuts in SYRIZA government. I'm not saying that. I refer them to the House. The Single Network of Pensioners mentions this. And I submit a specific text of the Single Pensioner Network as it has been recorded. Sixteen cuts were made in your two and a half years, and as he systemed them in ATHENS VOICE, journalist Panagopoulou. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Andreas Loverdos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Without proportional studies - as today - without justification, with papers that you painted 'analogue studies', you have shown your views. Last year and a year, as I said in the morning, you have been disproved. And to know what we are talking about, when we talk about and address the 'people's friends', you are hitting off the personal difference and the low pensions of the old IKA of EUR 480. There are cuts in the personal difference. And since I am talking about the work of the Ministry of Labour, I would like to make a reference to Rule 58, ladies and gentlemen. In the morning, we as a Democratic Reconciliation - and I and Mr Koutsoukos - opened the issue, but we did not get a reply. What is regulated in Article 58, which, unfortunately, you also applaud, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, and you will vote on it? Article 58 is unconstitutional because it provides for tax exemptions and taxable incomes to be paid by the free worker, the farmer and the trader. Insurance contributions are considered to be income. In a compulsory social security scheme, the income paid by the unconstitutional article 58 is regarded as unconstitutional. And what does the government answer with the Minister responsible? Yes, it says, but the provision of Article 58 is not tax. So what? Does it matter the kind of regulation? If it had a title: 'Educational regulation', would it raise a matter in relation to its substance? Would the title and characterize the meaning of the setting, the content of the setting? These laws that have been recognised by the Minister responsible this morning, what are they legal? Incorrect answer, the government's answer unsuccessful. This provision will be brought to the courts. Ladies and gentlemen, eleven regulations of this majority in two and a half years have been judged by the judiciary of unconstitutional, not three, four mentioned here this morning. Eleven regulations, your own regulations, which you applaud most, with the top, of course, the case of the Pappa law, have been judged by the courts as unconstitutional. Today's meeting is a meeting initially negatively historical, because the country is given a fourth memorandum after the third, also unnecessarily, your own memorandum. It is feasting because the previous governments and Papandreou and Papademos and Samaras - Venizelos are vindicated and what we are saying to you now, not only are we political opponents, but also people from you, from all the places you have expressed, through public interventions, that you have been unfair to your political opponents, that you have said many things that have not been done, that you have hated the Greek people and divided them. It is therefore a negative historical day, in my view, and also a mourning day for society, after being removed from the economy and from the social classes of EUR 5 billion, many billion euros. One would think, of course, if he were in another country and was following political developments in Greece, without living them as we are in close proximity, that it would also be mourning for the majority, since your antimony speech, your good intentions, your intentions, is now celebrating. On the contrary, however, that is not the case, that is not the case. It would be a mistaken impression of a third person from another country. Here, as long as we live what you say and listen to you, and now we see three days in the House, we see you celebrate, pretend - why you don't believe - the enthusiasm. And one wonders, to exaggerate a little: Dawnings on a backdrop, which you would play to dance on? And it is now clear, ladies and gentlemen, that we have felt it and with assurances given to us by majority colleagues in private debates, and now it is a given: Mark Antony among you there is no one. A man who does not accept false and in vain hopes and a man who respects his words among you does not exist. First of all, disrespectful to himself and to his political dignity is the Prime Minister himself, Mr. Tsipras, but he is leading this show and the Minister of Finance, Mr. Tsakalotos. As far as the Prime Minister is concerned, we have done so several times. He will always be persecuted by his own words and actions. I remind Mr. Tsipras in Mindi in May 2014. He said to the people: "Or with SYRIZA or with the Memorandum for another forty years." Where has he taken us now? What do we see? 2022 and put it on. Or with SYRIZA or Ms. Merkel. The definition of political amoralism or better the deposition of political amoralism. SYRIZA and ANEL leave no order untouched by this law today. Free professionals, pensioners, private employees, uniforms, everyone gets hurt. And let's just stay on the last ones a little. Although we've been listening for a while, Mr. Toska, you've been kicking the uniforms, police officers, firemen, soldiers. They put their backs on my way, they said that these days your subordinates - and you make fun of them. Because here we have been answered - not you, other ministers, who are co-legislators in the field - that you will also give rise to increases with this draft law. However, you are being disproved by the social actors themselves and on the road with their events, but also yesterday we are celebratingly and emblematicly here. The uniform who spoke and attended condemned you, too, with all the other bodies, the dozens of actors. I'm making a suggestion. Remove all arrangements for special payrolls and come here and discuss them. Of course, we read that some sort of negotiation is taking place and something will change. Maybe you say something, too, but the House doesn't know that. In these publications we had the opportunity to see a few minute trade unionists in the area invite you, in spite of all the changes, if any, to withdraw the relevant provisions. We're waiting to hear you. I think there is nothing better to do on this matter than to withdraw the regulations, to bring them under the normal ordinary ordinary legislative procedure, so that we can see exactly what this is all about. To close, then, ladies and gentlemen, with anguish, with the struggle in the past few years, everything has now been abolished. The tax-free, the pensions where they were held, the C.E.S.A., the team redundancies. And let us not hide the truth from ourselves. In an anguish or a fear not to tell us that we are not politically as we should, in a context of political self-determination, not lose the truth. The Minister, Mr Chakalotos, has the main responsibility for this draft law - as I said yesterday in my speech - with what he said to this day - I do not know what he will say tomorrow or what he will say tonight - in one disgrace he added. He could also be a hero of Thervantes, as a minister of a pitiful form. And I say, "Speaky," because what else could it be when he passes all the troubles with a general abstraction, which you do not pull, and stands in the pseudometers throughout his entire speech? It is the continuation of the lies, ladies and gentlemen, which began with the "I will tear the memorandum", "I will immediately abolish it by means of a law and an article", became "I will implement a parallel programme" and it is now "I will implement the countermeasures". Three baptisms for the same attempt at mockery of citizens. But it's going a long way. Now what the people say is true: whoever is mocking, mocking himself and only himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u371	The speaker of SYRIZA, Stavros Arachovitis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u372	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is the reflection of a lasting struggle, a struggle based on the profound contradictions that exist in societies and which in our time takes serious proportions because of the global crisis. The neoliberalism, which the previous governments opened to him wide open the door to dominate violently, leveling and dismantling the relative - is true - the cohesion of the Greek society that had precedented in the previous times of molding prosperity, is not an enemy that is easily exterminated. The product of negotiation, which we have before us, is also the trajectory of proof that we do not put it down. The countermeasure articles are the victories against the policies of neoliberalism, which we have been able to achieve in order first of all to restore and maintain the cohesion of society, which has been deeply affected by the ruthless attack carried out in recent years - over the last seven years - and has been installed in the country since PASOK and then by the New Democracy, since 2010. Let me remind you, however, of some of the success of the negotiations in the primary sector that we have had in recent years: Firstly, we had the amendment of that incredible law, of Law No 4172/2013, which taxed farmers from the first euro on all agricultural incomes, on all subsidies and on all ELGA payments, when someone was damaged. Secondly, the insurance contributions. Most farmers now pay less than they paid and the contributions are commensurate with their capacity and not with their age. Thirdly, the extrajudicial compromise after the sale of the 'Agrarian Bank' and the gigantic debts to the insurance funds, the OGA, who charged the farmers of our country with unbearable debts and did not take care of any arrangements to alleviate them. Today, with this bill, we bring in arrangements that come to help reverse the course of primary production. So in the context of productive reconstruction we have to say: we are proud, because we managed to get back to agricultural supplies, to all feed and live animals the VAT to 13%, because we knew that the 2015 Convention has an error at this point. And it is one of the victories that we have managed to bring the VAT back to 13% in the country's rural world, and in fact directly, since 1 July of this year, 2017. In this way, support is given to the primary sector of the country with support to the liquidity of farmers and rural enterprises, as it is one of the main pillars of the development of the Greek economy, as the explanatory statement states. And who won't agree with it! We have reduced the rate of the first stage in income taxation from 22% to 20% for our country's farmers and for all taxpayers for incomes below EUR 20,000. Here, may I remind you that 95% of the declared agricultural income in our country is below the limit of 20,000 euros. So 95% of the people, farmers, will benefit from this regulation. Thirdly, another relief is the reduction of the special solidarity levy, which is zeroed for incomes of up to EUR 30 000. Here too, let us say, of course, that almost all agricultural incomes are below the limit of EUR 30,000. Fourthly, the extrajudicial compromise gives a new opportunity to release the super-government debts that have accumulated to the farmers in our country and that the PASOK and the New Democracy governments have loaded them on their backs. But are you, gentlemen, talking about PASOK and New Democracy, about farmers, about the customer distribution of subsidies? On the contrary, in 2016, we paid 3.7 billion euros last year, paying subsidisation unregulated since 2008 and, indeed, without losing one euro from the previous programming period. Are you talking about bringing about a reduction in agricultural income and did you manage to break down the cooperative idea and dismantle the cooperatives? You speak for yourself, who sold out the agricultural cooperatives with the first "DADONI", as well as the "SEKAP" and many others. I am sure, therefore, that the farmers in our country are well aware of your projects, as they recognise the above small and also larger victories. And they are well aware that our insistence on serving the large majority is deep, as far as possible, subverting the policies of neoliberalism, as we are doing today with VAT on agricultural supplies. No other political force wants - and so it cannot - to serve this purpose in real conditions rather than in in vitro laboratory conditions. The injustices imposed by neoliberalism in Greek society are all - one in our knowledge and it is our will to continue to fight hard to overthrow them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u373	Thank you. Mr Kumouchakos, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u374	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the simple, daily and human question: 'What are you doing?', 'how do you go?', the answer you get from the citizens of every profession, every level of education and every social situation is no longer that typical: 'Well. How should it go?’ More and more, the answer is, "We can't take it anymore. It doesn't work anymore. I'm done. We've been finished." Do you know who this "finished" refers to? To you, gentlemen of the government. You are the ones who in general conscience have 'finished' households, businesses, pensioners, employees, uniforms, farmers, islanders. And the chain of misery and poverty has no end, it has become bound up with the whole society. Everywhere there is desperation, lack of prospect and hope. Apart from your party mechanism, today no one, but no one, is better than it was two years ago. This is the situation in society. And yet, the government doesn't understand anything. The Prime Minister came to say that the Greeks are having a good time because Easter was able to go to their villages. It prides itself that there are no strikes and moves cynically, provocatively and irresponsibly, just as you bring here today the fourth memorandum: cynical and provocative. It's the second memorial to your government service. Time and memorandum. You're the memorial champions and you celebrate for that without any contraction. Your only support is the stubbornness of arrogance and the bruising of power. You're causing the suffering world. They confirm what you are saying here today. You have not heard or understood anything from the voice of despair and the whistle of all the social actors. You know, you are no longer incapable of listening not only to the undercover but to the deafening aid of society. You continue your destructive course with power bumps in your eyes and an arrogant bucket in your ears. You've lost all contact with society. And, you know, this is the last stage before the political collapse. You took Greece while it was starting to come out of the crisis and immerse it in the decline. And today you come here, while you are already sinking the country, to tie another silver rock into the leg of society to go faster and lower, the rock of the fourth memorandum of 4.9 billion. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA - ANEL, you will vote tomorrow on smuggling measures, indeed measures, which will be implemented and you are trying to convince you that you are happy because, at the same time, you will vote supposedly countermeasures. But the countermeasures are fantastic, the countermeasures will vaporize. It's countermeasures that you know they won't apply, because they're directly dependent on the preconditions of Article 15. First, the adoption and full implementation of new measures of 4.9 billion and then the permanent achievement of high primary surpluses and, indeed, of primary surpluses to be assessed by the institutions. You know very well that the condition of so high surpluses for so long is impossible. And who says that? Not us, but your Chief. On June 23, 2016, he said: "It is impossible to catch surpluses of 3.5% after 2018". That's not all he said, of course. He said he wouldn't take 1 euros and take 5 billion euros. But on the same path of lies without food, Mr. Chakalotos followed. He said he'd give up if he cut the tax, and today he's here in the cabinet! You're kidding once more. You promised benefits of 12 billion, you did not give them, but above that you imposed an austerity measures of 12.5 billion. You said you'd raise the pensions. You cut 'em and cut 'em again. "Serial Killers" pensioners have become! You said you'd raise the tax-free. You've reduced it and reduced it again. "Serial Killers" employees and free professionals are becoming! You said you would support the weak and load all the new burdens. You are now cutting off the last social benefits. You've put twenty-six new taxes. You are now taxing the 500 euros a month as well. I would like to be clear here. They have responsibilities for our partners too when they make too much claims. They have responsibilities that have accepted the overtaxation you put to the Greeks. They find, however, a step and do, in the delays, in the contradictions, in your bilingualism, in your inability, in the inability of a government that in every negotiation precedes harsh resistance, smears heroic attacks and eventually drags and signs slogans, which are not only humiliating, but are also demonstrated by serial anti-constitutionalisms. And that is the institutional aspect of the decline in which you have plunged the country. And this institutional decline is going to be added to the social decline. You are impoverished not only by incompetentness but - attention! - and by political expediency. You invest in morbid logic that a poor and desperate society can also become a dependent on your authority society. We will not allow this to happen. The slaughter bill is not going to be passed. We are not going to become accomplices to society's poverty plan. In an impoverishment that, as of tomorrow, will have your fifty three names engraved on it. It will be the hundred and fifty - three signatures of the fourth SYRIZA - ANEL. This is your course. Deadway. Depth step. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And yet there is a solution. The solution, however, cannot be brought by those who say otherwise in the morning and by others in the evening. It cannot be brought by those who undermine investment, shut down businesses, and finally shut down jobs. This solution can only be brought by the New Democracy. We can get her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u375	The Deputy Minister of Interior, Mr. Toskas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u376	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are now at a turning point in a difficult period, which can be said to lead to the end of the programmes of the tough budgetary adjustment and the strict committee. The government has made the choice of an agreement that actually contains compromises, but which at the same time opens roads. We are now more and more close to the time when the country will change page. It is the result of a difficult negotiation, which has clearly highlighted the dogmatic perceptions of lenders and the "troika domestic" who bet on failure, not just the government's failure but the country's destruction, to come back to power as supposedly saviors, and, of course, helping from a portion of the media that sees the disaster every day and everywhere, systematically cultivate a climate of misery among the citizens and moves the finger to the government, showing the ruins they left behind in their own governance. Of course, we recognise that there are measures in the agreement that will make the people unsatisfactory. That's what happens in every negotiation, because in negotiating something you win and something you lose. However, the agreement also includes positive measures, including countermeasures, which we all understand why you have never been able to bring to the table. You did not do so because in the neoliberal perception of your party the social state simply does not exist, because in the New Democracy the social state is an unnecessary expense. That is why you are now attempting to degrade the measures that are coming to support the weak and strengthen the protection of the state. In simple terms, you are against the weak and the world of work, and this is your secret agenda you are trying to cover with opposition screams, because if you were government today, it is certain that you would break down and what is left of the social state. We all understand that the deal spoils your own account that wants the disaster to come everywhere. Every day you predict that the disaster comes and even though the reality is disgusting to you, you insist on continuing with new predictions of disasters. You don't want to vote because your positive balance is causing you political allergy. In the period 2018-2021, a positive measure amounting to 7,5 billion is anti-measured in measures of 4,9 billion. The positive causes you allergy when you're used to seeing dragons. You ruled on the basis of ruffles, personal services, you closed your eyes to tax evasion, and that was not the exception, it was the rule, because when the state had financial resources, you never made sure you created structures. You preferred to share jobs in the "days" and sign direct assignments on holidays, Christmas and election. You know that behind the window you hid the ruins. You ruled with the ruffles. You were neither interested in creating a social state nor even serious and functional public structures for the benefit of citizens. Now that the government is trying under very difficult circumstances, you are whistling indifferently and talking about fake countermeasures. It is you who said that so many more measures would be voted on to close the way - such as evaluation. You are the ones who celebrated the slogan of the famous 'Success story', because your policies are exhausted in the slogans. So let us see now all clearly who were right. Those calling last December to sign at all costs everything that the lenders brought to the table? Let's go to the special payroll now. For some time now, you have been trying to fish in bluish waters. What did Mr Mitsotakis promise at yesterday's meeting with representatives of the trade unions of the Armed Forces and the Security Bodies? That the remaining 50% of retrospective staff will be returned in a way that, as he said, will not jeopardise the achievement of the budgetary targets. Not how he'll give them, not how. Let us not forget that these are reductions in your day and now you tell us that when you become a government, you will respect the decisions of justice, but you have cut wages. What else did Mr Mitsotakis promise the personnel of the Armed Forces and the Security Bodies? That your priority will be to deposit a new special salary, but still omitted to say what this new special salary will be like. No explanations. I will help you and remind you of a few issues. What was your joint proposal in September 2014? The Ministry of Defence, but a joint proposal, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Civil Protection, the Ministry of Shipping. When you were government, did you predict reductions or not, and even to the lowest degrees, with great opening of the scissors? You can refer to the corresponding September 2014 proposal of the Ministry of Defence. It was then that as a government you made redundancies, that as a government you dismantled the Municipal Police and dismantled the Municipal Police, you forced the Greek Police to additionally load the police on the streets of Athens, distracting it from its main task of prosecuting crime, and today you are shouting and cutting off for policing. But that's what you're doing. Dissolve structures, be inherited in the next debris and as our counterpopulation you give up. But let's stay on the subject of the special payroll of the commissioners. No reduction shall be made to nominal earnings. We do not overturn the level of staff remuneration, because we recognise their difficult work, we want to ensure that posters continue to carry out their duties. The personal difference is institutionalised, regulated and has no time limit for implementation. Even more important is that basic wages are integrated into benefits, which has been a demand for many years for trade unions and workers, which you have not done in years of crisis, because you wanted to have the world hostages, slapping next to wages, but not by increasing the basic salary, which is positive and the calculation of pensions. We were committed and made our commitment to the fact that the remuneration of the commissioners will not be reduced. You are the ones who have reduced staff wages. The draft law provides, among other things, that for each staff category, the monthly basic salaries are to be formed automatically by providing for a pay scale in steps. There are provisions for allowances, special working conditions, family benefits, including the normalization allowance for divorced people - which I promised here in the House and now is included in the relevant article - and a position of responsibility, as well as provision for additional allowances for work beyond the five-day period. There is also provision for disability and risk benefits and the food allowance is maintained in the testimonies. With regard to the grant of the special allowance and the responsibility allowance, it is noted that they are linked to the effective actual exercise of the duties of officials. The calculation is maintained, although you said the other day - you did not read it well - of the time of the military service and of the time of study at the HEIs for those who had established it by 31-12-2016 and did so many days that you did not see it. The overtime allowance is maintained on weekends, as so far, i.e. even for the four months which have five weekends, i.e. up to five days, as foreseen. The suspension of wage maturities and promotions in force until 31/12-2018 is abolished. What does that mean? It means that until 31-12-2018 the rating had ceased to be linked, i.e. the promotion, with the increases. We are now returning to the former pre-suspension regime. It improves the allowance for night work without the minimum of eighty eighty-eight hours that we have been waiting to spend in the first half of the year. The four hundred eighty-eight hours were covered, and then we asked the Treasury for extra money, which the Ministry was also trying to find in unorthodox ways many times. Now this restriction is abolished and these overtime can be given in a greater number. The allowance is maintained for the servants in the police departments of Kakavia and Krystalopi, which is a sub-theme, but these people are forced every day to go more than forty kilometers, which is available for their stay, because there is no shorter a village and therefore they have to get an allowance in this particular case. The allowance of the NCA, EMAS, EMAS, MAT, pyrotechnics, etc. is maintained.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u377	Will you table amendments to see them?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u378	Yes, they have, or if any of these have not been, they will then come down. It is a communication which is not at the moment the wish of the Ministry of Civil Protection. It's a communication in cooperation with the Treasury.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u379	Mr. Kyriazidis is indifferent. The catastrophe he was saying didn't come true.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u380	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u381	But we don't have an update...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u382	How much more time do you need, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u383	Second minute, Mr President. A frontier allowance shall be granted. Until now, the allowance for a border area for Evros and the islands of the eastern Aegean was given only to the military. This bill gives police and firefighters and porters both seconded or served on a permanent basis in these areas. [[Applause from SYRIZA and ANEL wings]] This is a new arrangement, recognizing the struggle, sacrifices, labors, the danger - if you like - of those people who seasaw. Porters are also suffering as a result of immigration. Finally, in consultation with the Ministry of Finance, the payroll step will be examined next and, if necessary, harmonisation will be made. This is because we did recognise that in some cases there are some issues that need to be harmonized. To sum up, the new special salary comes to ensure the maintenance of the staff's nominal salary. The basic salary shall be increased by the incorporation of allowances and the income level of staff shall be guaranteed, recognising the difficult circumstances in which they are required to carry out their work. Despite the noise you are causing, the officers of the Armed Forces and the Security Bodies are aware of the truth and they know that in these difficult circumstances we are doing everything we can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u384	Mrs Amanatidis, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u385	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, everyone knows, but many want to forget how we legislate. Fortunately, however, most people remember it, namely that we do not legislate vacant but constantly under pressure. Likewise, the bill under discussion was not drawn up to implement the programme of the current government, but the need to serve the huge debt that the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK inherited to this government, as part of the suffocating guardianship established in our country because of this debt and the disastrous and disastrous manipulations for its settlement by New Democracy and PASOK. Those who rescued the banks, by transferring the debt to the European States and to the International Monetary Fund, now blame us for taking, they say, measures that we do not need. Of course, we accept this assumption, namely that the situation of the economy in our country today is such that no concrete measures are required. The Scientific Service of the Parliament in its report is in the same way. But both debt and lenders, you chose them. The PASOK brought here as a lender in 2010 the International Monetary Fund, which has the specific unreasonable demands and almost all the wings of the House in August 2015, two hundred fifty, one Member of Parliament, agreed on the stay of the International Monetary Fund in the programme. You deliberately ignore what is stated in the first page of the explanatory statement of this law, namely that the specific burdens, undeniably, lead to the completion of the second evaluation of the program, which gives space and time to the Greek economy to inspire the recovery that has taken place in the recent period, while at the same time creating the conditions for the definitive exit from the Financial Adjustment Programme. What's clearer? But it is clear that the insults, slanders and falsehoods that have been heard for three days in this Chamber have two aims: first, to hide what is actually happening in the country: The signs of growth and recovery, which have nothing to do with the supposed signs of growth and recovery in 2014. And secondly, to hide all the contents of this draft law and along with their shame in not voting for a series of positive measures. For the poor and low pensioners, for whom everyone is being cut off today and mourning here, no one is celebrating pension cuts and tax reductions, nor is it comforting that the International Monetary Fund wanted a horizontal pension cut of 43% and a reduction in tax at 800 euros. However, it comforts the fact that positive measures are taken fully quantified and clearly legislated, which will alleviate the low and middle strata of our society. Because the thousands of eight hundred new kindergartens will not only absorb several thousand children in need, but will create at least five thousand new jobs. Because it is a relief for a large part of the population to reduce participation in pharmaceutical expenditure. Because it is a significant tax relief to reduce HPAI, to support family housing, either in the form of rent subsidies or in the form of a subsidy for the housing loan. Because it is a significant tax relief to non-payment of a solidarity contribution of up to EUR 30,000 and to reduce it from this amount and above. The reduction in the rate of taxation of natural persons from 22% to 20% and companies from 29% to 26% respectively is less. Because it corresponds to jobs, the 300 million increase in the Public Investment Programme and the 260 million job support programme. For it is a relief for farmers to reduce VAT on farms from 24% to 13% and from the next month. Because, after the suspension of labour rights since 2011, for the first time, it has opened a strand with the reintroduction of collective bargaining against all those who wanted a free economic zone throughout the country. The operation to hide the truth or distort reality keeps it well. We have heard about the so-called sufferings that occur in the whistles and the other charges that are paid for with special wages. Fortunately, before I took this step, the Minister, Mr Toskas, spoke very well of what was happening with the indictments, of course, to the disappointment of many. Aggregation of the special wages from twenty to seven is not a panacea in itself, much more so since the report by the General Accounting Office of the State provides for expenditure for the next four years of EUR 351,8 million for these wages. The special wage treatment reserved by the legislator over time for certain categories of workers, such as those in the Security Body, is fully guaranteed by the specific circumstances of the exercise of their duties. There is a special wage differentiated from the single of civil servants and accompanied by an environment of positive measures showing the particular attention of the legislator at a particular juncture. Specifically for officials in the Security Body - they have been said before - there are four classes of pay rankings, depending on their origin and their education. There is a consistent demand from trade unions, namely the integration of allowances into the basic wage on which increases are taking place from now on. In addition, they are kept explicitly with reference to the family allowance, similar to that paid to other civil servants and officials, the benefit of particular working conditions due to the particular nature of their duties, taken by all servants in the Security Body, according to their degree. This allowance is increased for married or divorced by 55 euros and for children with 115 euros, thus including the normalization allowance, which until now was received only by the officials in the Armed Forces. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just give me one more minute, Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u386	All right, Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u387	With regard to the specific compensation of EUR 46, all Sundays are compensated. The Minister said so before, not to repeat the same thing. Article 154, which has also been mentioned by special bodies, for the recognition of military service, also applies and is recognised. As a personal difference, any reduction to be made by the new calculation is given so that there is no reduction for the servants of the Security Body. There are a lot of things I want to say about the bill and, unfortunately, they have not been heard from anywhere. Time does not allow me to expand. But let me make a brief reference to the establishment, the creation of the National Health Procurement Authority, which is clearly ignored. Really, why do you disagree with the attempted armour, the institutional change in the system of procurement of public hospitals?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u388	Please, Mrs. Amanatidis, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u389	It does not take time to develop it, but it is very interesting to hear why you are not voting on this particular provision. The provisions of this draft law contain difficult arrangements, but they are balanced in the sense of the final zero budgetary result, but also with a large number of other positive provisions, and this is voted on at the next day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u390	Thank you, too. Before giving the floor to the Minister, Mr Gerovas, I would like to make an announcement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u391	Let no Member speak in opposition! Is it possible for two Members to speak from coalition and then two ministers?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u392	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, forty-three students and students and five teachers attending the 2nd Artas Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Mrs. Gerovali, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u393	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the Multifibre Arrangement is another opportunity to clarify a few things about the situation and prospects of our highly indebted country in the face of the Greek people, who are still following us with interest. It would be a good job, of course, to agree, because if we were to agree on the causes of the problem and the conditions that have led us to live in committee and if we were to agree on the recipe, there would be hope to reach solutions more quickly. However, with the New Democracy of 2017 it appears that this common place does not appear to exist, with a New Democracy of self-respectful communication, self-esteeming prophecies, propaganda and the micro-political opposition, a opposition whose permanent endurance is "elections" and "resign". Do you know what reminds me most? It reminds me of a very inmate penitentiary which requires that the request for grace be accepted, but without showing any sign of remorse. And the Chief of the New Democracy seems to feel imprisoned in the Opposition. Its members share its ownership of the state. Ladies and gentlemen, the leading and communication team of the New Democracy is trying to show us as golden days the government's mandate. On the days when the neoliberal governments and the New Democracy and PASOK confrontations subjugated our political levels of freedom through our agreed and signed unreasonable obligations, when the officials of the New Democracy and PASOK joined the lenders and served for the sustainability of the debt. These are the days of their own governance, characterised by their inability to close ratings, as it were, of course, with the huge primary surpluses that they had agreed between 2015 and 2018. This would mean negative measures totalling about EUR 20 billion, which we avoided in our own negotiation. These days of their own governance have brought the impoverishment of the Greek people, the dissolution of the social fabric and the middle class. This was Samara's notorious'success story'. And you can be absolutely certain that not one of our fellow citizens forgot, because that is the way New Democracy and PASOK would like. As one has not forgotten the reform of the public sector, which was published as Minister at the time by Mr Mitsotakis and is also evangelizing today, a reform that focused on, translated and implemented exclusively with redundancies. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek citizens are also aware experientially that the ideological basis of the leading team of the New Democracy is condensed in the attack on the public space, in the dismantling and shrinking of the public sector, in the deterioration and in the difficulty of accessing health structures and, in general, in the abstention of what is similar to a national political or social state. This ideological approach of Officer Response led its executives to oppose us in this way, i.e. sterile and fanatical. That is why the first day of our administration has created the account of the 'left parenthesis'. And, of course, they have been living in their artificial world, with a basic strategy not the benefit of the state, not the benefit of our people, not their contribution to the national effort to the lifting of the committee and the commitments, but with the sole aim of returning them to the government in order to satisfy their ideological obsessions. The Chief of Officer County had said that countermeasures are liquors. Today the New Democracy is tabling its own amendment. Since VAT on farms is reduced by a draft law from 24% to 13%, why does it propose lowering VAT on farmland from 24% to 13%? And all this in retrospectively, without voting for the positive measures as they went down to the multi-brand plan that we are discussing. The draft law provides free access to nurseries for a hundred and thirty-five thousand children by 2020. What does the New Democracy mean by tabling an amendment that speaks of necessary positions so that no child will be left out of daycare? The New Democracy is trapped. He fears that it will be in the bad position that was found last December when he did not vote for the one-twelfth pension to low-pensions and tries to reassure Members who have to explain why they do not vote for positive measures, the rental subsidy, the abolition or reduction of participation in medical expenses, the increase in free access to children's stations, the increase in family allowances, new work programmes, etc. But beyond the parallel happy world, where the Think Tank of New Democracy lives, there is a reality out there. And that reality says there are people who believe in SYRIZA, who hope to SYRIZA, who are critically watching and waiting for SYRIZA. We are therefore closing the evaluation with the addition to the agreement of positive measures involving six million of our fellow citizens. With the completion of the assessment we are closer to the restructuring of the debt in order to make it sustainable. And we are taking a decisive step in this House today so that we can move on to quantitative relaxation, the exit into the markets, the removal of the comitology and, ultimately, the recovery of the country with its productive reconstruction. Ladies and gentlemen, a key pillar for the country's productive reconstruction is for us and the reconstruction of public administration and we are moving on three axes: efficiency, independence, colonisation and, thirdly, transparency and accountability of the administration. On these three axes we move forward in coordination, implementing reforms that change the functions and the face of the state. The proper and effective functioning of the public sector is a guarantee for the development of the economy. It also responds to the social demand for a state more citizen-friendly and the need to simplify procedures in each transaction with it. What does the New Democracy understand from this social demand? A few days ago the Chief of New Democracy unfolded his vision of the public, saying that we should not have cleaners, that school guards should not exist, that they do not need any of the functions of the General Accounting Office of the State and that all this could be assigned to private companies. You will all be aware that last year when the individual contracts were concluded for cleaning workers at the Kalamata Hospital, 256 000 euros were saved, compared to what the contractor who had undertaken cleanliness last year, with workers even being paid on time and decently. This is how it saves the public, not with ideologies. This is how resources are released and not the workers are captured. Because some are ideologically insisting on trying to justify unjustified grounds, we are clear. The public sector and the private sector are not competitors. Everyone undertakes his own work in the economy and, where necessary, cooperates to address the country's modern needs. And we say this because, on the one hand, we have the political will to reform the public sector, on the other hand, we do not have any dependence on the private sector. We will reduce the cost of the public, limiting bureaucracy, with the workers in their place. Because in the subordinated and old public today excessive costs are also the result of its ineffective operation. Most of all, however, it was even more burdened with circuits which today's opposition left their resources to be plunged into public resources, for example, those we are discussing recently on health issues. So you're telling us that we don't need each other, that we don't need each other. Then they're blaming us because the hospitals are subordinated, the schools. In the contradiction, of course. But how do we have schools and hospitals without teachers, without teachers, without doctors? Because they were driven out of the public by the people of Antipopulation when they ruled. They're the ones who shut the door. And now you are grievingly talking about the famous Brain Drain. Instead of self-criticizing those who have destroyed the state are blaming us that we are struggling it, even though the rule of recruitment for departures is observablely respected and no one can question it. And, of course, I challenge the Opposition when it finds one that we have appointed without SAP procedures to show us before us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u394	Two hundred ten!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u395	Bring us in front of us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u396	We've told you and you know it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u397	It has not happened once, Mr Georgioda, what you are describing, but we will resolve it further. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] One more minute, Mr President. And, of course, the slander didn't stop there. Series have been targeted at counterpopulation lately by the contractors appointed by the government, in the interest of its own. Even the institutions do not say such things, let alone that in the technical agreement on the second assessment it is recognised that the number of contractors - which, not least, many of them work in local government - is not large and will remain on the same average as that of 2016 and the next two years. Indeed, with the explicit exception of the contractors to deal with the refugee crisis, the cases of natural disasters and other emergencies. Of course, we have seen the joy with which the New Democracy has welcomed the leaking of the Court of Auditors' decision and how much it is that contractors might have been unpaid. We, ladies and gentlemen, are at the forefront of these perceptions. That is why we dared to touch on the issue of contractors, to deal with it, to see it, because all those who indict us are the ones who have created all these workers in hostage. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say that we are taking decisive steps to implement the actions for the reconstruction of public administration, so that by the end of the four-year period a new Member State-citizen relationship has been established. We have already created an institutional framework to implement our reforms. Today, the new establishment plans of the Ministries and some bodies were adopted by the Governing Council of Reform and the positions of Heads of Finance and Administrative Services of the Ministries have been published. In 2017 all responsibility posts will be opened in the public, with the aim of completing the process in spring 2018. We are also strengthening the role of JEPs. In cooperation with the Ministry of Digital Policy we promote the full integration of digital technology into public administration. As a Ministry, we have launched strategic cooperation with large international organisations - OECD, European Commission, European government agencies and bodies - which also provide us with the necessary know-how and assistance. With the closure of the second evaluation, ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy political account has once again been disproved, as has been disproved by the closure of the first evaluation, as has been said by the 'left parenthesis', which in vain expects to be closed. The story about which governments and with which allies have enlisted the country in the committee has been written. Now write the exit page from the Memorandums and the Committee. It is written by our own government, with our own ally, which is of course the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u398	Thank you. Mr Lambroulis, Member of the Communist Party of Greece and Vice-President of the Parliament, has the floor for seven minutes. Here you go, Mr. Bright.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u399	Thank you, Mr President. The new anti-population package of SYRIZA - ANEL expresses the government's commitment to the objectives and interests of business groups, strong economic interests that are already active or are going to be active in Greece. In fact, it is precisely because they are measures that are deeply in favour of capitalist recovery, the strengthening of the competitiveness and profitability of business groups, they represent an escalation of the capital attack on workers and the populace, and as such workers must see it. These measures, therefore, are permanent measures added to all previous measures, further compress the lives and modern needs of workers and the people, leading to the pooring of thousands of more populous households, since any development - even anaemic - requires the continuation and expansion of anti-grass reforms, the depth of labour exploitation, the removal of thousands of more self-employed, professional craftsmen and small and medium-sized farmers, in order for capital to acquire new areas of profitable action. So, no matter how much the government tries to present the anti-grassroots measures, either as budgetaryly neutral, or as a balanced one, it tries to convince that it does so in a fairer way than the previous one, the substance and targeting of the measures do not change. It is confirmed that no one is excluded from the new attack by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, of course, except for the business groups to which new privileges, new tax exemptions and tax reliefs are promised. In fact, with the consolidation of the whole anti-government framework and its further reinforcement with the liberation essentially of mass redundancies, the abolition of Sunday holidays, the indirect legitimisation of lockout and others, it gives guarantees to the capital that they will continue and intensify the miserable conditions of pay and work so that business groups increase their profitability. That is why the government is devoting its credit to both the quartet and the employers' associations! Indeed, at the same time that the government provokes the social mark of countermeasures arising from the "blooded" surpluses of people's waste and redistributes poverty, plans new rafts at the expense of the people's layers, through agreement with the quartet, at the expense of the modern needs of the people in health and welfare, as well as in medicine. Thus, in the name of rationalisation of health care expenditure, new cuts come in 2017 and 2018 with the inclusion of additional categories of expenditure in closed budgets and the reduction of clawback ceilings, further cutting off medical care. There is a further 30% reduction in 2017 compared with 2016 of the amounts compensated for drugs, diagnostic tests and others, adding new weights to the workers' pockets. Will anything really change for patients, for our people, the existence, for example, of indicative prices in the packaging of unprescribed drugs, when the people pay the medicine - goods 100% in their pocket? Is it or is it not a regulation to liberalise the price of non-prescribed medicines which serves competitiveness? I should also like to mention the provisions on the EPOS pharmaceutical costs and the provision for the insurance price which, while reducing the compensation from EOPY, increases the payment of patients, so that the median participation - that is, the payment - of patients has been launched since 9% in 2009, at more than 30% today. Based on the criteria set for the evaluation of medicinal products, with the therapeutic protocols on the basis of closed budget data, what will be the result? The result will be, whether useful medicines - see innovative medicines - not to be included in the positive list, or to leave the list of equal value medicines in order to respect budgetary objectives and budgets closed. The prescription limits for doctors who, under the threat of disciplinary proceedings, might be required to prescribe according to the above criteria. In fact, in order to implement these cuts, there is also provision for special provision to be made for the workers of the EEAS, depending on their degree of participation, and so also for the dismantling of the worker's consciousness. Thus, at the same time, in the infamous countermeasures the reduction in the percentage of the contribution to the pharmaceutical cost to be calculated on the basis of taxable income only relates to the medicinal products on the positive list and only to the part of the insurance price, to which the percentage of the contribution is calculated. Thus, both the difference between insurance and retail prices, and the EUR 1 per prescription, as well as the non-prescription medicines, will continue to be paid by the people. The recent presentation of the government plan for primary health care - which was described by the Prime Minister as a revolutionary and comprehensive reform - is nothing more than organising a downgraded and cheaper state fragmented public and private provision structures for certain services. It serves the general policy of minimum benefits at the least cost for the State in order to serve more effectively the policy of privatisation and trade, with low-paid recyclable health, low-quality services for patients and popular families, with a total lack of planning for real prevention, based on the modern needs and opportunities offered by the evolution of science and technology. Even the full implementation of the so-called countermeasures, provided that the "blooded" surpluses are achieved, will not necessarily meet the current expanded needs of our people and health. And it is a challenge for those who impoverish the people to throw away a scumbag and ask for gratitude. The previous governments did the same, and the current government does the same, regardless of the management mix. [[At this point, the end of Mr F' Vice-President's speech bell is ringing.]] Mr President, I shall end in twenty seconds. Today that science and technology have made jumps, where the launching of productivity and the pooled wealth allows for the reduction of working time, stable work for all, health, welfare, education of high standards with the sole responsibility of the state and free of charge, the debate cannot take place on how much less or more people will lose in the name of recovery, the economy and the recovery of higher growth rates, but on what conditions are needed to meet modern popular needs and what tasks are created for the workers themselves. And that remains for the people to think about and decide. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u400	Mr Balaurras, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u401	Ladies and gentlemen, while listening to the opposition, particularly the New Democracy and the PASOK, I am thinking of the evangelical saying that they behave as if they were'sparkly and uninfected'. I would add a proverb which is very characteristic in this particular case: 'the thief is calling to leave the housekeeper'. Have you tried, yes or no, gentlemen, our country? Were you incapacitated by the popular classes? Have you ever wondered - why the Greek people have given answers - how did we get here? Let's remind you, because your hypocrisy has no barriers. With the client state, the rushettes, the benefits in “days” and the media, you colored the country with black: Black money, black hatreds, pillaging, public health contracts, armaments. Any transaction you made was black. You've filled the public space with rodents. You've taught the people to live in black, the farmers with plausible customer subsidies, with plausible customer compensation. Everywhere corruption. Even ideas such as the value of collaboration have come to light. Farmers run away when they hear a cooperative. So hypocrisy in her majesty. Yesterday after the fascist, Cashiri's tramp challenge towards the Republic, while all the wings of the Parliament, apart from the fascists, agreed on the condemnation of fascist energy, at night the New Democracy, taking a line from the party's extreme right that defines its policy, namely Georgiadis, made a statement, saying - listen! - that Golden Dawn plays a game with SYRIZA. That's a disgrace. 'Yours, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites'. On the ruins, therefore, that you have left with the bonds of the lenders, we are moving further along the path that we have drawn. The agreement with the lenders that is being ratified tomorrow has adverse measures - the ministers have said so - which if it were up to us would not have been implemented. The Greek people know how they were imposed. But at least we succeeded with a tough negotiating strategy to have the countermeasures. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that since December you have been calling for the evaluation to be closed only by the unpleasant measures. In fact, some of you said to close down with these measures of EUR 4.5 billion, which were put to us by the lenders, asking for so much more. And we managed to win the countermeasures, which you call them "false meters", "belge" etc. Do you need, ladies and gentlemen, measures on child retardation, which you have more than doubled in the memorial period, reaching 45%? Does the housing allowance need to be made when over 40% of households pay for housing 40% of their income? And, indeed, it concerns incomes above EUR 20,000. Do you need kindergartens? Because with us families with two children and an income of 27,000 euros are allowed to have this cover with day-care stations. We also have a provision that reduces VAT on agricultural supplies and meat from 24% to 13% from 1 July. These are the compensatory measures that are added to the others, which we have already taken, such as the free medical coverage for two and a half million uninsured and the payment of the minimum guaranteed income to hundreds of thousands of people. Mr. Stagiras said that you shared in 2014 when you saw that SYRIZA was making 1.5% of GDP in meters. But not from the surplus, Mr Staikora, because you did not have a surplus at that time. In our government you also charged it with what you gave on the eve of the 2015 elections. There are signs, however, ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u402	In April 2014, this was done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u403	But SYRIZA was devastated. It was on the horse, and you were hiding with fairy tales and beads. But the natives, considered natives, didn't bite.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u404	"The Horse, the Horse Omer Bryoni"!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u405	The horse, the horse! Of course that's what we are and we're going to stay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u406	Just watch the hay. You stayed from hay!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u407	Mr Balaura, continue your speech. Please, gentlemen, don't interrupt. It's at the expense of the next one.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u408	There are, ladies and gentlemen, some brands from the markets, the known markets. Bond yields fall under the pre-memorandum period. Refunds are coming from money he had escaped abroad. It's not me, it's economic, it's domestic and international. Industrial production in the first quarter of 2017 experienced an increase of 9% and it appears from the forecasts that this trend will continue, as IOBE presented, not ours. With regard to unemployment, which is also the big bet for us, in April, employment increased by twenty-six thousand new jobs. In fact, there are quality elements on this issue: 55% of them were full-time. So the elastic work that you more than doubled in the years of your memorials has been reversed. However, we are not celebrating. We are careful and hurt many times about the consequences of the policy that we are being imposed on us. The agreement with the great difficulties, therefore, and with the burdens, creates hopes for a social state. A deal is also expected - you know that very well if you read any newspaper - about debt. There is also the question of openness, which, as a matter of course, will come about in terms of quantitative relaxation. This is not'success story' for us, but it opens the hard way out on the markets. It is a difficult road, but it requires investment, mainly to bring back the new children who have left. Our aim and bet for the Greek people is to get our country out of the comitology. To become a normal country now and break the bonds and wishes of lenders. I think we will do well by looking after and implementing a deeper political government on all fronts.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u409	Memorandum policy!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u410	And one last thing. Tell me a countermeasure you took in the seven years of your memoirs. Hello!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u411	What did you get?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u412	Thank you, Mr Balaura. Mr Besiropoulos has the floor from New Democracy and will be followed by the Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, Mr Papapas. Mr. Besiropoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u413	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister for Finance actually exceeded himself yesterday. He thought there was nothing that reduced twice the tax exemption from the EUR 9,545 received - and that is what we will always be here to remind them - at 8.636 years ago and now at 5.681 euros. If you remain in power for two more years, you can also zero it! You're worse than that. That's for sure. We were also challenged by the Minister of Finance to say even a lie he has told. It is the last thing we would expect to hear from a representative of this government who has turned the lie into everyday practice. I am presenting to Mr Tsakalotou's minutes in the newspaper 'GUARDIAN' on 13 December, in which he says that 'he never agreed to primary surpluses of 3.5%'. It stresses, in fact, that "high primary surpluses for an economy, such as that of Greece, given what has been past during the crisis, have no economic or political logic". [[At this point, the Member, Mr Apostolos Veyropoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I also state in Mr Tsakalotou's minutes three days ago, on 10 December, in which he says that 'There is no serious economist who believes we can have primary surpluses of 3.5% for many years'. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Apostolos Veyropoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Obviously, after all this, Mr Chakalotos does not have the dilemma of whether or not he will resign to reduce duty, as promised. The dilemma now facing is whether or not it can be included in serious economists. Because, as Minister, he has already lost his seriousness, assimilating Greece to the Pan-Eleisian who wins Barcelona with a score of 7-5. Now, how, after all of this, we will achieve primary surpluses, not only of 3.5%, but of 5.5% to implement the integer countermeasures, only non-serious economists could tell us. The last person who can talk about the truth now, and the consequence is SYRIZA. Do you want to remember Mr Tsipras's EUR 1 new measures? I am presenting to the minutes the interview of the Prime Minister in the "Pressors' Newspaper" on 25 January 2017, which states: "There is no way we can legislate 1 euro further measures." And it goes on, saying: "The request for additional measures to be made and, in fact, is not only foreign to the Greek Constitution, it is also foreign to the rules of democracy, it is foreign to the European acquis". Three months later, it submits new measures amounting to EUR 4.9 billion. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Apostolos Veyropoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the least important thing at the moment is to point out the inconsistency and lies of this government, a government that is vulnerable and fully unreliable on these issues, with a Prime Minister who lies with a characteristic ease, who does blackness and gives a good example to his ministers, so that they too can do the same with a sad parliamentary majority, which no longer exists in the electorate and in society, who is voting for everything to keep the parliamentary seat. What matters is that the country is caught in a trap of overtaxation, poverty, austerity and absolute surveillance. The SYRIZA - ANEL government, to remain in power, has sedated the country's future. He was responsible for the implementation of the measures adopted for 2019 and for undermining the work of the next government. Although there are measures which further aggravate the situation of the economy, it is regrettable that the sight of ministers and MPs in the government is trying to convince - obviously only themselves and the posters appointed to the public - that the fourth memorandum that they bring to the country is about triumphed, when duty-free is reduced to EUR 5,681 and for the first time will be called on to pay tax for low wages and low pensioners of EUR 500. For the first time, there will be charges of up to EUR 650 for employees, pensioners and farmers who have been protected until now from the tax-free threshold, when the reduction in pensions is given the reduction in personal differences in the mains and the new reduction in supplementary pensions, at the same time as the NRV is abolished in full. Not only the thirteenth pension, you do not give, but with the reduction of pensions and duty-free allowances, you are abolishing both the eleventh and many cases and the twelfth pension. All pensioners will therefore lose from one to two pensions. Who can ignore this harsh reality when you impose new extermination and out of all reasonable increases in insurance contributions to 37% to 61%? A freelance professional should give more than 70% of his income to pay his tax and insurance obligations. Who can ignore this harsh reality, when the salaries of the Armed Forces and the Security Corps are reduced, when 50% of Greek taxpayers owe tax and two million of them are confronted with seizures in the next few days, when in 2016 they closed down with a recession and this recession continues in the first quarter of 2017, according to ELSTAT's first figures. In which country, really, do you live? Can you believe and say that the country will achieve a primary surplus of 5.5% in 2021 in a seated economy, when both you in the medium and the Commission itself are revising the growth forecasts by reducing their assessment of indicators? Is it possible for some people to believe that the primary surplus of 3.5% can be maintained for many years from overtaxation, when soon the debts of citizens to tax will exceed EUR 100 billion? Is it possible for people to come here and talk about countermeasures, as a reality and as benefits, which are certain that for them to be implemented in full, there is a need for primary surpluses of 5.5% of GDP, which is EUR 10 billion on an annual basis? Do you remember telling us one of the government's estimates for these twenty-nine months, for which it has not fallen out? On the same day that Mr. Tsipras was talking to the Ministerial Council on the development he came, ELSTAT announced that in 2016 he was not closing with 0.3% growth, as the Prime Minister said, but with 1.2% recession. Yesterday you had the opportunity and the opportunity to see the climate prevailing in the hearing of the bodies, representatives of production classes. It's a full anger climate. Anger and disappointment also prevail in society, a climate that is translated by the Prime Minister as a non-response to the policy pursued by the government. Mr Tsipras seeks: to make disillusionment of all citizens aware. Mr Tsipras' only hope is the domination of despair. But he reads this picture completely wrong. Citizens have maturity. They have rejected the bisexual logic and practices of hatred and populism itself. They will respond democratically and enforce the political change that the place needs. Ladies and gentlemen, the government in less than two years has brought two memos, the second without funding. The account of the measures imposed on Greek citizens in two years is now at EUR 14.2 billion. He took 3,400 euros on average from each Greek family. The cost for the economy as a whole is heavier. This Greece doesn't deserve us. The New Democracy is a responsible political force. It comes to highlight Greece that creates, Greece that supports reforms, Greece that produce wealth and does not pursue labour and creativity. This is the Greece we want and we deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u414	Thank you, Mr. Vésiropoulos. The Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, Mr. Pappas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u415	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we are at a turning point, because the country does not change a page, but it is changing capital, and I think this is an opportunity for the political forces to reflect on what has happened so far and to think about how they will go in the future. It is for us a duty and opportunity to speed up the work of the government, but also for the New Democracy to finally enter into a difficult but necessary mental exercise for what a Central Right party means in the historical context that we are currently living in Greece. That is the key question, to which the opposition officer should be asked to answer. And I would like them not to keep the easy part of Mr Samara's'success story' and the destruction that our own governance was supposed to bring. Because this account has collapsed miserably from developments. You anticipated and prophesied a disaster that didn't come. And now, without the disaster, what exactly are you going to do? You risk with your aggression and constant tireless repetition of destruction to remember the likeable hamsters running in a cylinder, without moving and not having the ability to look out to see that they really aren't moving. They're just running. And you're asking for elections and talking about disaster. You are talking about a disaster that destroyed your own success in 2014, that your government neither caught nor assessed it closed, left the country with a very significant liquidity problem, loaded HNPH, for example, without a people's mandate, to the Greek people and now that the first formal and substantial reduction in HNPH refuses to vote in favour of it. So that was what I think 'Success story' and to support it, you go into a logic which has absolutely no basis and you compare the financial results with the economic objectives set by the institutions and anticipated the programmes. For this exercise, gentlemen, if it applies to our own governance, obviously also to your previous ones. Can you withstand this valuation? If you can withstand her, I'd tell you to look at her because she's making a 40 billion-dollar account. It's a foolish calculation, though. And it is not just a foolish calculation, but in your case it underestimates the consequences of the policies that you have chosen to implement. Because the account, the historical, the economic data, is that your choices cost the Greek economy and the Greek people a quarter of GDP. We have been called upon to correct this situation. And since you are looking too often at ELSTAT's data and relying on it to destroy some temporary GDP data, I would ask you to look at some adjacent columns, look at the investment column, which increased in 2016 by 12%, to look at the export column, which also increased in 2016 by 10%, and also to look at the employment column with historical terms. Because since 2010 there has been too much water in the groove. And the same paintings published by ELSTAT tell us that the rule of Papandreou has cost the Greek economy half a million jobs, the rule of Papademos a hundred thousand and the rule of Samaras two hundred and fifty thousand jobs. With Tsipras Prime Minister, the Greek economy has won two hundred thousand jobs. And our rule is a disaster, and yours was salvation! I really think that if you too are facilitating yourself and getting out of your sight the deforming lens of some media, which continue the same violin, you will find yourself in front of a reality that will surprise you. And because you refuse to do that, you have fallen into a misfortune, which is precisely because the disaster has not come, which you anticipated. And, now, the result of this juggling is that you are not voting against the countermeasures. You're not voting for the countermeasures. Yes, sir! When the measures were on their own, you told us "sign" and that you would vote on them. Suddenly, everything changed. When did everything change? When we managed the budgetary effect of the interventions to be zero from 2% clean and the debt issue also opened. So what are you voting against? You are simply voting against the countermeasures. Your protests on the grim measures are not credible. Because you really have these measures, he says many times that they should be voted on. But you cannot stand to vote for the positive countermeasures because they creep you out. And they creep you out for three reasons: firstly, because you cannot imagine that in these circumstances it is possible to implement policies which facilitate the poorest strata of Greek society. Secondly, because you can't admit, either to yourself or to the people who are watching you, that it's possible...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u416	The tax-free...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u417	Let go of our tax free, Mr. Brutsi! Our Mr. Brutus, and our tax-free and pensions...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u418	The team redundancies!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u419	We've saved them for you!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u420	Please don't interrupt, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u421	Read the article. You're against the workers. With SYRIZA the team redundancies and the lockout!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u422	Please, Mr. Brutsi, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u423	Are we against the workers? You dissolved the labour market in 2012. Look at you, I think you really haven't learned any lessons. In 2012 you dissolved the labour market. At that time, the great tsunami of moving Greek populations to find work abroad, which was torn away from business and employers and turned eight hours into four hours, and the world was looking for their fate elsewhere. Now, just because the collective bargaining is back and the mix of the hiring of increasing employment in the Greek economy is changing, you cry. Why are you screaming? Let me tell you why. Because in DNA above your policy, we have passed what we call extreme right-wing neoliberalism, namely extreme economic policies and hatred for the Left. It's very simple. Can't you understand? You cannot understand that Mr. Mitsotakis took the far right from your party's viewpoint and put it in command and drag you from the nose, say extremes, act like this and continue, moving straight towards the wall, without knowing what has happened. And, of course, you cannot accept, accept and explain to the people who are following you - because they are tortured in these days when they are listening to your positions - what has happened with the debt and why the whole world now discusses its restructuring, while you said that there should be a sustainability certificate and that it was sustainable. In any case, I think that the climax of the other one is the vote against the countermeasures, supplemented by the statement of other countermeasures on your part, which will be applied your countermeasures and ours will not be implemented. Our countermeasures are "Pets" and your "transitions". But the silk countermeasures also want skillful negotiation, gentlemen of the New Democracy! And the skillful negotiation is something that has not been through your mind. And it has not passed through your mind in any case that a Minister of Finance should start informing the European Parliament, that a Prime Minister should propose that the European Parliament be involved in supervising the implementation of the programme. It has not crossed your mind to set up a South Summit. Did they get through this in your head? They didn't get through your mind. You didn't have your mind to negotiate, but you had to really do what you served by pressuring the Greek people. And I think that here we are the Greek people now have two very clear strategies in front of him, from which he has to choose in the long term. One is extreme right-wing neoliberalism, it is the civil war hatred of progressive governance, which has been married to the most extreme neoliberal policies that have ever been implemented and on the other is fair growth. Fair growth by making full use of the great potential of the country, in order to regain its position internationally, to be a hub of trade, telecommunications and transport in the modern world, in order to be able to build mechanisms in the economy and in the administration, which will ensure that the product produced shares in a fair manner and in the people whose economic result is left behind. This afternoon there was a joint statement by three leading European parliamentary groups, which the party you participated in, did not sign it. Ska Keller and Mr Lamberts from the Greens signed, Gabby Chimer from the Left, and Gianni Pitella from the Socialists and calling for a solution to the debt issue. Place on it at all. We are making this appeal. Support the national effort in the battle we give for the debt. Vote on the countermeasures and save your soul, even on the amendment on the taxation of parliamentary allowances.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u424	We've said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u425	Well done. Good. But make use of this opportunity to show that you have in your closet, even an old and shredded shirt of national Greece and wear it once at last. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u426	Mrs Diamanto Manolakou from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u427	The intercity recital between SYRIZA and New Democracy - PASOK goes cloud about who passed most of the anti-grass tough measures with monuments and comitology, who impoverished more popular masses, shrinking income and rights that were won in the previous century with struggles and blood. Who's the gentleman? That this whole debate has nothing to do with the agony, suffering, the needs of the people. You're kidding! You are trying to hide the substance, that you are on the same bank of pens and serve the same strategic objective, the armoring and strongening of the dictatorship of capital, sacrificing and trampling the needs of the people. Yes, your enemy is the needs and rights of the people. You are defending, gentlemen of SYRIZA, a very tough class policy that does not hide at all. You pretend to oppose the New Democracy and at the same time consolidate, incorporate whatever anti-virtual, reactionary has passed PASOK and New Democracy and you are reassuring that you broke the bipartiteism. Yes, the bourgeois class has another power party for SYRIZA. That is why you have negotiated, and that is why you add new tougher measures, which are more reactionary, what the capital is asking for to become cheaper, more degrading the pay of work, impoverishing new working popular masses, strangling the right to strike. You are talking about bankruptcy of the Greek state, to hide that even in the vortex of the crisis, shipowners, businessmen, energy on the back and the misery of the people. Social ruins are rooted. Give all of you tests to shipowners, industrialists, bankers, majestics, who is the best manager. It seems clear that the SYRIZA government is collecting the credits. That is why the Greek Industrial Association, the European Union, the International Monetary Fund and the European Central Bank welcomes it. You prove that all you said, such as "The man above the profits" or "An other world is possible", was not only deceptive, but the way to political salvation of the rotted capitalist system. This is your offer and your great shame. The fourth memorandum is sure that it will sink into greater poverty and misery and new popular masses. You know that, and that's why you're propagandaing the piles in the countermeasures. You present them as a necessary medicine, which will finally get us out of the crisis. But who? The people's world that you are literally smuggling him, scanning permanent salaries, pensions, allowances, labour and trade union rights, which the government calls with enthusiasm'return to normality'? Of course neither New Democracy and the PASOK promise to restore to the pre-2009 levels. Why? Because you have the same strategy, that of the European Union, since the same measures are being promoted in all the countries of the European Union that do not have memoranda or quartet, because they are the requirements of the capital for labour intensity. When you say "We made a compromise to some to gain more", it is very clear that you mean the recovery of profitability and new privileges for pluralism from the greater exploitation of workers. You have the confidence of the capitalists. You've given multiple tests. The Chinese consider your agreement to "COSCO" in Piraeus, since it takes precedence over national law, which they consider to be a rag. It's a state in the state. They consider them to be the largest port in Southeast Europe to be the main gateway to entry and exit of goods from combined economic activities. Yeah, he made work spaces ghetto under conditions of abundance. And today, in the strike, he set up a strike mechanism with slave traders, with intensified and unpaid work, poverty pay and accidents that are not declared, because they are on the way out when they call the EKA, while economic aid, zero taxes and tax free profits are data for the multinational 'COSCO'. These are your investments and your fair growth. This is why you promote the development of special economic zones along with the privatisations of the OSE, the rest of the ports, privatisations of various forms in the popular, central markets of Athens and Thessaloniki and beyond, as the Green Paper of the European Union says. This is what you consider to be promoting trade and investment facilities and improving the business environment. Such investments promise infrastructure, energy, telecommunications. Already proceed with the sale of lignite units of PPC. Except that all the development plan you are working on has nothing to do with the needs and interests of the people. That is why they must reject and deny their poverty and misery. This policy of yours is doomed to new crises, bloody profits, and will give birth to wars that you're involved in up to the bounces. Give imperialists, war hawks, land, water and air for the profits of local pluralism. The people have a solution to get rid of the gravestone that the dictatorship of capital puts in. People's uproar and struggle until they overturn the rotten capitalist system for the power of the people, with permanent, stable work, free health, education, children's stations, social institutions, holidays for rest, culture, sport, with means of production concentrated on the service of society and not on the nails of capitalists. This perspective and solution for the people are trying to hide it with your fake landmines. Because that is socialism the only fair system for the people.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u428	Mr Ioannis Saridis has the floor from the Centroon Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u429	Thank you very much, Mr President. Eleven ministries, but no answer. A thousand pages and a hundred sixty-four articles, but no argument. For hundreds of hours in Parliament, however, there are no substance to it. “Niet” Mr. Moscovisi told us to understand it. “Niet” told us, too, to understand it better. One euro is cut, one euro is paid. This is how the zero budgetary footprint appears. This is how “Niet” appears. We are therefore cutting 1% of GDP from pensions, cutting 1% of GDP from tax-free, to give 1% of GDP to medicines, rents, children's stations, school-leavings, labour-enhancing programmes, increasing public investment and the other 1% of GDP to a reduction in HPAI, the solidarity levy, the income tax rates of natural persons and businesses. When is all this going to happen? But it's not even certain they're going to happen. First of all, the measures themselves are sectarian. The government itself closes the eye to those who look at it sleek, without knowing what to believe, and tells them meaninglessly through leaks from Maximus: “Do your cross. If the International Monetary Fund leaves and these measures are automatically cancelled.' At the same time, anyone who dares to ask any SYRIZA Member to comment on the fact that there is not a single word about the debt within these sixty-four articles of the eleven ministries, gets the pharmacological answer that the negotiation is still under way and that anyone who asks a lot of questions does harm to the national interest. If anyone insists on asking, "What happened and you changed your attitude, the hundred and fifty three MPs, when you claimed that you would vote nothing if you didn't get something for the debt first?" he gets the following answer: "They will soon give us. And they will, because they promised us. And we believe them. After all, if they do not give it to us until the measures are put into effect, then we are simply not going to implement them!'. As if you were to say to the citizens, "Let us not hope that they will give us something on time about public debt so that we have an excuse for not taking the measures"! Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you are deliberately cultivating the public with the false impression that the measures are of a sect. Telling the Greeks that the 'bad' International Monetary Fund will leave, along with the measures, or that if they happen to make fun of us, then we will have to apply them, in any case lie! The Greeks are already sure - and they do well - that negative measures no matter what they are, will be applied in full and on time. Anyone who studied the thousand pages and sixty-four articles, looking to get a sincere answer to the simple question, "When, then, will the measures be implemented?" he knows that measures are already taken from Monday to Monday. With the resolution of the fourth Memorandum, will the testing of the already ready platform begin to take place three times a week by electronic auctions, yes or no? By correcting the extrajudicial mechanism so that it no longer benefits from its provisions, those who decide to disagree with the amount of debt that creditors, those who happen to have protested about the illegal and abusive charges that the banks will claim, starts the biggest redistribution of property and business that this place, which Greece has ever known, has ever known, which is experiencing the most shameful and insidious sale in its history. If we decide in future to look for any responsibilities - and political responsibilities and criminal responsibilities - as we are saying in the committees of inquiry, then we will not be able to look for them either in the banks or in the public or of course in the ministers. The government is irresponsible, the banks and the public. This dawns Monday for the Greeks. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, can you deny that today we are privileged? Can you deny that today we are prejudicing hereditary provisions? Mr Chakaloto, Minister, can you answer us, why is there not a word about public debt in here? Is this omission one of those things you warned us with a sad look that it would make us sad? You have no answer, Mr. Chakaloto, so you may also have these metaphysical concerns, and you are looking for excuses as to what Lenin said in the Third International. What is needed, finally, for someone who wants to represent the people's classes, Minister? Is it inaccurate to claim that we will emerge from the memorials in August 2018? Mr Stathakis told us directly: 'We cannot talk about memos in a country that comes out of the market'. At the same time within an article, in Article 163, he will vote for dozens of pages under the heading ‘Approval of the Medium-term Financial Strategy for 2018-2021’. Where'd you finally end up? What does it take, Minister, to have someone to represent the people? Would the courage be proud of the state's law on the Day Day Eve, at the same time that she legislates the work seven days a week and frees team redundancies? Do you think the citizens can trust Mrs Ahtsioglu, who has just left the Chamber, who has assured us that we are getting out of the hard commission and that we have ensured that we restored normality to employment rights? As all this is done in an urgent way, in your own friendly tactics, the time that, in the end, we finally have to explain to your citizens your actions from this step in plenary, is minimal and inadequate, which is why I will ask the President in advance for another minute with his tolerance. I therefore need to make it briefly clear that the measures will be implemented in full and that they will also be binding on the next government. The Qualified Opposition therefore avoids the obligation to vote for these measures, as it is sufficient for lenders to make a simple statement of their faith after the state. They won't vote for them. But these too, when they become government, will be implemented. They had, after all, proposed half of them. But now they're mocking. That is the answer you are looking for, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and PASOK, because you cannot take the world out on the streets. They know the paternity of many of these measures by Greek citizens, so they cannot go out on the streets. The countermeasures are nonexistent. Ciroto in a wound she needs a hospital. Reductions in tax rates will only apply if creditors agree in future. That doesn't prevent you from making announcements. You are announcing rent allowance on the same day that you release mass electronic auctions. You are announcing that you will sometime start to build kindergartens when we enter a period of heightening and peaking the demographic problem. You're saying you're going to share school meals while a million people live exclusively from the piles of our Orthodox Church. You are giving a child's allowance to those who are going to tax for the first time, you claim to combat unemployment by ministerial decision and vehicle OAED. You are talking about increased investment and increased public investment, while in my questions Mr Papadimitriou, with courage and honesty, he answers, describing this state of the investment world in which our country has been found.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u430	Mr. Saridis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u431	Yes, Mr President, I will be done in a moment. No one believes you anymore, ladies and gentlemen. It starts a period of uncertainty for the country, as you will now rule, having lost confidence in everything, except for the members of your party army, which you are constantly strengthening even with today's bill. It starts a period when you will have to find a way to rule citizens who have no confidence in your words or your actions. I appeal to all members of the Armed Forces, who have been so tired all these days, not to lose their trust in our democracy and parliamentary procedures. We in the Central Association will continue with greater intensity our democratic struggle to defend their rights. The Centro Association will vote, as other speakers have told you, the tax equatorship of Members with the rest of the citizens, and only in this way will its words be done, will strive for its entire programme, all of its words and will not be negotiated by them by a single party. Good courage to have it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u432	Good. Mr Catherine Marcou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u433	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are living the survivor of the Greek Parliament, an unrelenting spectacle of negotiations where the public, the people, win, pay the bill and the best, never leave: the hundred and fifty-three in their seats. The last thing is that, although the measures can be voted on, they will not be implemented unless the debt write-down is done, as the "Agia Aghios of Athens" wants. The hundred and fifty-three will propose Mr Kammenos's well-known gestures to the creditors, if they do not reduce our debt and so quietly they will now go back to their regions to explain the unexplained ones, in other words, explaining this terrible argument. People live elsewhere and live among us! In any case, Maximos and the militant of survivor Eukleidis, we are told that the Pan-Eleisian may have ate five goals from Barcelona, but he gave it another seven. 'Illegal', as would comrade Lazopoulou. Only the known coercion could get that kind of effect drunk. Lies, lies, lies! In fact, what is left to say about a situation where lies are said so unwittingly, so coldly, so choligudian, both in the face of the people, who shock and let go. That is their aim, after all, for the citizens to believe that virtual, the situation is the reality and - take note of this - everyone in politics would do the same. Get in the mud and you, swimming, you'll be yourself. Besides, it's SYRIZA's kids. We did everything we could. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, they did everything they could to destroy the country, to roll it into the mud. I explain with three or four points below, because and how this was done, how we arrived at the austerity of SYRIZA - ANEL from the mail Hardouvel and the development of 2014 in the "baroufakia", the delay that he deserved, according to Mr Kouvelis, to 3.6 billion, to 4.9 billion and we see. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a word. First. Strange state capitalism with SYRIZA's boss. By 2021, the government will steal the growth forecasted in the medium term, as much of all GDP growth will actually turn back to state funds. For 2018, for example, the government estimates that the country's nominal GDP will be increased by EUR 5,5 billion. For the same year it estimates to achieve an increase in the primary surplus of EUR 3.4 billion. If it falls into the prediction, two thirds of growth will have been fruited by the Greek State, that is, put money on the suckler market and then give it to me, make it "Caranika". Secondly, the disappearance of the personal difference. The personal difference granted to pensioners in order not to cut their pensions from 2019 will be offset annually with the supposed increase in pensions, an increase linked to the so-called increase in GDP since 2017. With Article 1 of the bill, personal difference is abolished and pension cut from 2019 to up to 18%. To be understood as wage earners and retired people. The cuts are because we're still standing. And we were standing, because Mr. Tsipras played the "barifacy" and then played "Survivor". He's delayed the negotiation, and Melanson or Lepen will sit on us. Third, the sudden love with the surplus. Apart from the stated countermeasures - around EUR 10 billion - the government arbitrarily added EUR 5.6 billion to three years, as additional interventions, which are not foreseen anywhere. So, take people! Where will the money come from? But of the huge primary surpluses that the government has won up to 2021, which will not amount to 3.5% of the institutions, but to 3.9% in 2018, up to 5.6% in 2021 and, indeed, growing GDP. How's this magical thing going to happen? What's that financial? Are you going to exaggerate and the economy is going to take off? I mean, be careful. It adds 3.5% of the troika, says the government: "Let me also put more to the difficult work I'm doing." I bet the next government will come tomorrow and you will denounce it as an analgesic, because it will not apply the countermeasures, over-taxing the economy further. Fourthly, the over-efficiency of an economy in recession. In other words, the economy is seriously over-performing while it's in recession? What kind of financial is that? On your own, you admit it in the mid-term recital that over-reimbursement of the surplus in 2016 is due to revenues and savings that are not repeated. Already the primary surplus for 2017 falls to 2.1%, while the growth rate of the Greek economy from 2.7% of the budget falls to 1.8%. The numbers are relentless. In the first quarter of 2017, the net revenues were reduced by 0,8 billion, although the State received 1.2 billion from the concession of the fourteen regional airports. Assent of the Government, the experiment of the primary surplus is not repeated. This is a clear scam. I close with this: Mr. Tsipras is the best collector, the best mediator, the best employee and you know whom. The problem is that he holds a lot for his own shop and that he plays with the institutions and democracy and let him invoke it every such as candy. Constantine Karamanlis said in a speech to the House in 1976 by this Stepma: "Those who most frequently invoke democracy, they and they undermine it." Good night, Mr. Tsipras. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u434	Mr Meikopoulou has the floor from SYRIZA, which starts the third cycle of speakers. Here, Mr. Meikopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u435	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to make a more general comment on the attitude of the Opposition and, in particular, the Opposition Officer. Bearing in mind carefully the speeches of the Members of the New Democracy, one might say that, on the one hand or the other, they do not understand, aiming in a stubborn and often cheap way to draw political goodwill or to suffer from something much worse, from a lack of strategic analysis, from inability to understand the dynamics of European correlations and from a complete inability to understand what is at stake in the next few decades. Initially, the nature and architecture of the European Union is at stake and, secondly, it is at stake how and whether the International Monetary Fund will participate in the rescue programmes in general in the countries of the European South. I now come to the test. What does this multi-project finally reflect? It reflects the disagreement of the International Monetary Fund and the European institutions as to whether the Greek economy can get a primary surplus of 3.5% from 2018 onwards. This is the main disagreement. We have, on the one hand, the International Monetary Fund to make the assessment - a basic scenario for 2.5% and to ask for the sustainability of debt and, on the other, for the European institutions to claim the opposite. It is precisely this discrepancy that is reflected in the plan with two qualitative differences. Is this a bill self-evidently a bill, which continues with the Essential strial? The answer is 'no', because there are two qualitative differences. Firstly, the government manages to raise this particular bill on a fundamental basis, so that there is very soon to be a regulation of the viability of the Greek debt. That means joining the program of quantitative relaxation, which means exiting the markets. Secondly, after seven years of negative measures it succeeds in registering positive balance measures for the first time. These are the two qualitative differences. Is there a problem, ladies and gentlemen? There is. Although the financial balance of countermeasures is indeed financially neutral, socially and measures and countermeasures do not concern the same man, however. Because modern science has not yet invented the leap in time and you would very much like to be on Thursday and dawn on January 1, 2019, this is not going to happen. After Thursday it dawns Friday and takes twenty months. In these twenty months, ladies and gentlemen of Officerial Response, we can take many scenarios and make many assumptions. However, if tax evasion is to be combated more and more actively, if the tax base is further widened, if we have a smoother working relationship, if new jobs are created, I wonder what will ultimately be the result of a withdrawal of State participation in pension expenditure in 2019. What I fear, ladies and gentlemen of Officerial Response, is that what you, in fact, fear, are that the clean 20-month period by 1 January 2019 may prove to be the most effective countermeasure. That's your real fear. I hear a argument about a fourth memorandum. Here, if there's any distortion recital! You have forgotten, ladies and gentlemen, that the programme, the 2015 agreement, had as an integral part the participation of the International Monetary Fund. To date, the International Monetary Fund has not yet decided to participate because of the basic conditions it has set us. That was the 2015 programme. Therefore, if the closure of the second assessment occurs, the measures in 2019 and 2020 are an extension of the 2015 Agreement. Let's know what we're talking about. You have called on the example of Cyprus, the example of Italy. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a stability pact before the Maastricht Treaty had been passed. Obviously, there will be an evaluation of the budget at the end of the current programme. I would remind you that last year Italy tabled its budget three times. Won't there be an evaluation? Let us not therefore say that within the narrow limits of the European Union with this nature, there will be no budget assessment and that there is a huge success for Cyprus. I would like to make a comment on the work and remind colleagues present in the Civilian Representation, but also in general, of a historic route which was not reflected in any speech. I'm gonna take it a long time ago. Law of 1876, 1990. From the universal government at that time, for the first time, collective bargaining has been legislated. When did the sweater of collective bargaining come out? Act 2014 of 2011. What were the first Memorandum interventions? The abolition of the principle of more favourable regulation and the fact that the sector was no longer overpowering the operational contract. All this comes to ratification by the Act of Ministerial Council, after a few months, in February 2012, where the total abolition of collective bargaining is actually taking place. Let's not remind ourselves of what happened with the meteorology, with the OMD and all that. You've blamed us for fetishing and ideoscopy about work. We can be what you tell us. But you are the negligents of your own history. Indeed, then, the New Democracy MPs were in favour of the paternity of collective bargaining in 1990. What's the last setup? Instead of applying labour legislation 2011 until the end of the medium-term programme, it ends with the end of the current programme in 2018. What is the pursuit? Restoring the positive framework of 1990 as close as possible. That's the truth. Ladies and gentlemen of the Officerate, the world will judge and judge us for what is good and bad, for our mistakes and for our omissions and for what is right. One thing is certainly negative: the verbal lionisms, the terrible and toxic empathy and personal characterizations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u436	We continue with the next speaker, Mr Georgioda, from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u437	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, since this morning some of the Vice-Presidents have raised a question to the Members of the House who will vote this fourth memorandum tomorrow evening. They asked if their conscience would allow them. That word has been heard several times here today. I have not seen any Member of the Coupling House answering such a direct charge with a moral deception of lack of consciousness. But that question was wrongly asked. There were no such samples of conscience, nor when there was supposedly a parallel programme that was never implemented, nor when there were countermeasures, that were never implemented, nor when there were statements and assurances about the abolition of the Memorandum. So why ask today? Today there is only a countermeasure, which is specific. You are wrong to say, ladies and gentlemen, that the countermeasures are conditional. There is a countermeasure, which is certain. It is what concerns the Members of the Co-Population. It's the hundred and fifty-three Members' seats. This is the only sure countermeasure. This is their only real internal argument. And with it they accept and vote everything and they do that they do not remember and defend a past, which in a difficult way they try to convince us that it leads to a very nice future. But the basic thing is that. But you should be aware, ladies and gentlemen, that this countermeasure is due to expire. It is the next elections and in the next elections this countermeasure of about 1/3 of the parliamentary group of the two parties of the government will preserve it. You said you'd tear the memorial. We didn't understand well. You obviously meant: "We're going to tear the Memorandum to bring two new ones". That's how we take it. We have two new ones. We supported one, too. We supported it from a position of national responsibility. Some people, like Mr Pappas a moment ago, have accused us of not wearing the national team's shirt. We wore it in the summer of 2015 at a cost, when we saw the country collapsed, when your half-parliamentary group left. Of course, from the very next day on, you have not made any efforts to reach a consensus on the big issues, so that we can achieve a goal that would really help all Greeks. Today to justify the measures you are entitled to and the restrictions that will exist for 2019, 2020 and 2021, you remembered even the Maastricht Treaty. You said that there are limitations from there too. But didn't you know when you said you'd tear the memos, that you can renegotiate everything, that you're not going to accept any financial limitations? Today you went so far back to justify what? You know, I noticed the speeches of the MPs. The measures spoke very little. Most of them blamed the New Democracy. Don't forget, you're two and a half years of government. You have a past. You have specific results and these are captured. None of you talked about the reduction of pensions, about the reduction of special wages, about the reduction of the heating allowance, about the reduction of the child's allowance, about the reduction of the poverty allowance, about the reduction of the resources for OTAs, about the abolition of the reduction of the tax on medical services, the abolition of social allowances, the reduction of duty-free allowances and the increase in insurance contributions. You avoided it. You were just talking about countermeasures. We tell you that Article 15 has preconditions, which are not just about the fulfilment of the surplus but also about other conditions. It is indeed a waste of time how Article 15 describes what - allegedly - countermeasures after achieving the objectives of 5% and 5.5%. We don't have an answer. The rapporteur has told you that. Take back Article 15 today and then talk. If anything depends on this provision of the countermeasures, as you say, why do you have Article 15? Have you read exactly what Article 15 says? It's not enough to fulfill. In the medium term, targets must be seen to be achieved. He wants a recommendation and approval from the institutions. How do you get past Article 15 like that? You're going to tell me, this is where you've gotten past the report on team redundancies. "But there are no group redundancies," I heard that before. Now listen to a story: 'We have voted on something difficult for group redundancies, but it will in fact never be implemented, because there are no group redundancies'. That's a great argument! It's getting over me! Of course I didn't hear anyone say anything about electronic auctions. I didn't get it. You mean mumbre? I want to hear from someone, to raise the issue that will arise, to come up with electronic auctions. Unless you consider this case to be a serious countermeasure that those who lose their homes will receive a rental allowance then! It's a serious argument. I think we should put it to the knowledge of the people who do not know it. I have two answers to Mrs Gerovalis. Mrs Gerovasili mentioned two things which I consider unacceptable, and I believe that they go beyond the ethical limits, which must be followed by persons who, before the people and Parliament, express certain positions and must be told the truth. The first thing she said - and I challenge her for that - is this. He said: “Tell me one who has been in the public service without an ADP in recent years.” I have denounced this case. You know, in public, they go in three ways. One is the competitions of the SAAP. The other is the competitions that can be carried out without the SAEP but are normal competitions, as is done for the Security Body or for anything else on the basis of criteria of the SAEP. The other is the irrevocable judicial decisions, which may characterise a relationship as indefinite over time. A two-fold parliamentary amendment concerning two hundred ten workers has been passed here, which has the justification for 'by way of any general and specific provision' and for 'every decision', because there was a contrary court ruling. We're engraving these workers for an indefinite period, because that's how SYRIZA wanted it! They're two hundred ten! I'll send Mrs. Gerovali these facts tomorrow. I think he knows. I want to think she's gone. He has to come out and admit that they entered without an APA - and they are not the only ones - otherwise he has to resign because he has said a lie here today. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I just need a second. I must say, of course, that the invasion of the contractors was not carried out by any New Democracy. All the opposition parties said it was unconstitutional to extend the conventions and to enclose the workers and mayors oper and come, because today the workers cannot be paid, because Mrs Gerovasili, Mr Bernardakis and Mr Skourlets believed they could violate the Constitution! Where they think that there should be sustainable and stable needs, then the positions should be announced and all those who are entitled to participate in the AACC process should be involved. No more mocking! Sixty thousand contractors had at the end of 2014. Eighty thousand we have today, because what they called 'working galleries' is ultimately what they are increasing. Gentlemen of the Couple, you will be famous in history, as those who have not fought any battles, as is the news of this time. But you should know that the one hundred and fifty-three seats counter measure has a certain time horizon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u438	Mr. Constantine Barkas from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u439	Thank you, Mr President. Conscientiously, the reason for the New Democracy MPs! From the Zappeia of Mr. Samaras to the memorandum, the dismissal of teachers, teachers, doctors from public hospitals, nurses and school guards. "Manolius changed and put on his clothes otherwise" now for the Members of the New Democracy! Where Manolios the New Democracy is assembled. The first Vice-President of the New Democracy spoke of a lack of dignity on the part of the government and the MPs of SYRIZA. The Second Vice President of New Democracy said a lot. He blamed us. He left suspicions of complication, naming Savvidis. So let's go see one - one of the arguments of the New Democracy. He was already reading something to us and then asked five - six times 'who said it', 'Who said it'. He was anxious to know. When Samaras begged Savvides to take Sacap, it was just a daily day. Now you're seeing a complication. There was no problem then! You vulgarize Mr. Polakis because he was celebrating with Mr. Kammens his birthday. When the leadership of the New Democracy, Bakoyannis, Voridis, Georgiadis and Marinakis was together, it was just a Wednesday. You then sent kisses to Mr Papamikos, former Secretary of the New Democracy, and now also to Mr Savvidis' son-in-law. Now you've changed your watch. It's ruining you! Then she was fine, she was fine, she was fine! There was no problem! You were singing and drinking under the sounds of the well-known popular trovadour, known as Lepa, "on carpets, in magic carpets I will take you." Then the first and second flames, then the distinguished journalists, then the channels of interlocutory that only tell the truth, said nothing at all. They found out about the phrase of the Minister of Fire about the stuffed. But they found nothing to say about a portion of 12.5 euros for beans, omelets and lentils, who paid for Vorides. Cuveda! They don't have any value, because they're not make, but the truth, because they only have to serve lies to the Greek people. We are being shaken by the people of SYRIZA, by the people of New Democracy. Who? Those who hug the Vice President, fear not to deceive them. Who do they hug? Here is what your Vice-President said: 'The New Democracy is the shame of the Right'. For Mr. Samaras. ‘It is the most useless Minister from the payment of a Greek state’. For Mitsotakis. "We live in the era of populism." Yesterday, it took the form of a deep-seated vegetation of the political system, which found a solution to the country's budgetary problem in the parliamentary compensation and the so-called Members' privileges, because it obviously belongs to those who never have to work in his life, so he has no need for anything. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. You who hug those who didn't want to touch, because where you catch them are scorned, really how much is dignity for you? You speak to us, the Members of the New Democracy and your Vice-Presidents, about dignity! On the other hand, we have your partner the Democratic Assembling a name for the PASOK, because if you tell society the name PASOK, they come to memory from various figures such as Mr Simitis and the generals of Mandelis and Pantagia, and Tsukatos, who took one million and deposited it at the PASOK fund from the funds of SIEMENS. That's all I'm talking about. Since I said 'SIEMENS', really, gentlemen of the New Democracy, will you Members find something to say about this 'holy family'? The day before yesterday - to return to the previous day, to the 'believe' - was released, the Ace of Zeybek, the maniac, the expensive marriages, the almost Chief of PASOK, the almost Prime Minister of the country and did not go a single PASOK MP to honour his former mate. We have said that the 'drivers' of the Democratic Partnership is fine! So you're telling us loot-eaters, we're SYRIZA's, but the worst thing is that you think it's a loot-eater society, that she doesn't remember, that she's lost her memory. The problem, however, is that you consider our country's world to be indigenous, Greek society. So I remember forty years how you rule the country. Forty years you have respected the authority in the country. Kubares, an outlawing circuit, Mitsotakis takes a call center from "SIEMENS", as well as a legalisation in a time of crisis. Papandreou and PASOK brought the International Monetary Fund to our country. The attack by the leadership of the New Democracy in the world of work, the demolition of labour rights, horizontal cuts in pensions 11 times. The SYRIZA MPs, gentlemen of the New Democracy, are not from colleges but from public schools. We did not study abroad but at Greek universities. Our dream was not the purchase of a ship, but to hang out, to talk, to analyze with society, in society. We come from popular struggles, from movements, from the generation of the movement against Article 16, from Genoa and the anti-government movement. The people brought us to the government to save you. We are talking about society, because we will fight to save society from you. He tried you. He knows you. It has placed you in the dark corner of politics. Honesty in politics, ladies and gentlemen, is a result of power, while hypocrisy results from weakness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u440	Mr Maniotis has the floor from the PASOK-DMAR Democratic Assent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u441	I fully understand the colleague who just came down from the Step. It is not so easy to vote for a Memorandum and a Second Memorandum, because, as the proverb says, "the great gar of sorrow gives birth to insanity". So there is no point in answering. You know, if you historically wonder what phase we are at today, we are in the second half of the SYRIZA mutation. We started in the locker room, it was the SYRIZA of hope. Do you remember the slogan? The SYRIZA of hope, SYRIZA of "all I slaughter them, all I stab and the debt will erase and the memorials I will rip off and I will cancel the 12,000 tax free will give you no house in the hands of a banker" and everything in the locker room. He goes into the first half to rule and in the first half comes the first Memorandum of Tsipras. It's the time of delusion. "Boy apologies, I didn't understand what I promised you. I apologize for making you believe it. I negotiated seventeen hours, but you eat in the head 9.5 billion wage and pension cuts and you eat in the head 80 billion euros cost for the national economy." He's going back into the field for the second half. It's what we're living now, the new mutation, the SYRIZA mutation of delusion, in SYRIZA of fraud, clean fraud, cynical fraud. The SYRIZA of his fraud, not a single euro, and now take 5 billion new measures, of fraud no deal without a clause on debt, and now take a single word about the debt. PSI will say and cry. Greece paid 12 billion debts by 2012 and after the PSI - your current budget says so, it says in the medium term that you submitted - only 6 billion, 50% reduction in debt. Another scam. "The Minister of Euklidis Tsakalotos will resign if he comes down from 9,000 duty-free, and brings in and co-signs 5,500 tax-free himself, and "does not run chestnut", nothing happens. Another scam. 'We will not reduce pensions'. Pensions will be EUR 2.7 billion, even the pensions of IKA 480. 'No house in the hands of a banker'. What's coming now? Electronic auctions, electronic seizures. Wednesdays, Thursdays and Fridays in mosquitos and without the presence of people will be held - and within the year - nine hundred thousand seizures and auctions. It's the largest redistribution of private property ever made in Greece. But, ladies and gentlemen, I have a question about moral resistance. It's about how you look at yourself at night in the mirror. What did you authorize Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Tsakaloto? To negotiate the closure of the Tsipra Memorandum, that is to say, the second review 2015-2018. And what brought you by Mr. Tsipras? What now is Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Tsakalotos calling for you to sign? Instead of closing the second evaluation of the first memorandum, it brings you a package of a new memorandum, not for the period 2015-2018 but for the period 2019-2021. Everything about the chair? You're gonna swallow that, too? Have you authorized him politically to negotiate a new memorandum? The memorial of shame, an agreement by a defeated country, a memorandum that leaked into the German Parliament and which says in the sense that the Greek Government commits itself to implementing all the measures, even if they are judged unconstitutional. Every word of the Constitution was promised by Mr. Tsipras. Refer to the text leaked by HANDELSBLATT in the German parliament, tell us whether it is true what I am saying. It was forty-seven representatives of society here yesterday. The whole society was represented, the disabled, the small and medium-sized ones, the scientists. Doctors, lawyers, engineers, police officers, soldiers, porters, all uniforms, and everyone told you with one voice: "Korodia, anesthesia, abortion, degrading institutions". You even serve purely human capital, universities, teachers of technology, researchers in research institutions. There's nothing up there that you've respected. Some Members say: 'We are not celebrating, we are not celebrating, but we are not celebrating'. What to celebrate? I don't understand. Don't get us crazy. Will you celebrate the 3.5% primary surplus? Will you celebrate the extra 5 billion meters? Will you celebrate the debacle and the Waterlo? Will you celebrate your inability to the 2017 budget to promise 2.7% growth and now four months later to tell us about 1.8% growth in the medium term? The 1% missing, the 1.5 billion to 2 billion you stole within four months from the Greek people on your own sole responsibility, to give piles and to pooren the middle class and those who manage to survive. But there's something else, you don't want investment. You want to make invisible, nonexistent forests at the Greek airport, preach them and protect them from the Ramsar Convention, because that's the only way it suits you. You know what this reminds me of? Because in the summer of 2014, until then Minister of the Environment, I tabled and voted in this Chamber the new Regulatory Plan of Athens, one and a half pages we dedicated to the airport of Greece, in order to avoid the great danger of some, declaring to the Council of State the great intervention of 8-10 billion Greeks. You now manage with the so-called monuments of the Ministry of Culture and the nonexistent forest, to confirm Bertol Brecht, who said: "I am amazed by the sharks, I have defeated the tigers but the fleas have eaten me." The fleas are the master you had him proclaim a forest area of no existence. You say you won't celebrate. Why celebrate? For the recession, minus 0.3%, at the same time as all of Europe is developing?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u442	Mr. Maniotis, finish up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u443	I shall conclude and thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance. Ireland is developing 4.1%. Cyprus has 2.8% growth, Portugal 1%. They have increasing Memorial Countries and Greece of Tsipras - Kammenos has a recession of less than 0.3%.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u444	And the Venizelos - Samara?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u445	The Venizelos - Samaras government took Greece out of the memorandum and would go to the preventive credit line.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u446	Mr. Maniotis, finish up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u447	Today Greece would not have the Memorandum 3 of Tsipras or the Memorandum 4 that you are bringing us now. You delivered the country for ninety-nine years to lenders, banks for twenty-five and thirty-five years, and now you have the courage to say this: five billion meters and 7.5 billion countermeasures. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] You guys tell ERT that we can't take measures of 5 billion and give countermeasures of 7.5 billion. Because then we will say, glorify them, to bring us ten billion dollars to take countermeasures of 15 billion! So because the imperfection of the way of thinking, the logic of people, has a limit, we tell you that this agreement you bring, you will vote on it yourself and the Democratic Assent will review it. You will vote for everything yourself and your measures and no counts! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u448	Mr. Paradigmopoulos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u449	I am not talking about Mr Maniotis, but about many and in general. If a rhetoric is all ironic, all great words, all lines, anyone thinks he's convinced? I will try to land in a reason that has something to do with reality, which is not resounding. I shall refer to the questions of justice raised in this bill and in particular to the question of corruption for two reasons. Not only because there is timely regulation, which concerns the competences of the Prosecutor of Corruption, but also for two further reasons relating to this legislation. One is that, of course, the main element of this arrangement, this agreement, is the positive countermeasures. The positive countermeasures, of course, to be activated, have the well-known sect. But the cult is not only paid for the application of the new measures, it is also paid when we have a surplus due to the hunting of tax evasion and the collection of earlier revenues, which have been neglected for so long. This means that corruption is critical today, the quest for and the fight against corruption is crucial for the country's progress, for budgetary, social, political, and economic. The second reason I want to refer to - perhaps not a reason but a reason - is that today I have heard again here: 'What are you doing about corruption? You do nothing.’ Of course, one cannot say that the current government is in any way linked to corruption, but what is said is that "you are not effective in dealing with it". I would remind you, of course, that, for the sake of this government, we now have a regulation with impeccable constitutional criteria, on the basis of which we can use now and illegally acquired evidence, which has initiated prosecution proceedings in cases of corruption. But I also heard the Vice-President of the New Democracy say: “And what are you doing with the committees? What about the seas? What about the health examination?' "And this pre-examination of armaments, from what I hear," he said, "will go on toward incompetence." Let me remind you how much the Greek people learned with the investigation of the'seas' cases and that, of course, the conclusion has gone to the prosecutor's office. Let me remind you how much we have already been able to learn, although at the outset, about the cases that have to do with health examination. As far as the possibility of reaching an unresponsibility in the field of armaments is concerned, it is important to say that what is of interest in dealing with corruption is not to get to a conviction or to go to a conviction that has in it and carry as a pre-patient sin some procedural obstacles or some procedural irregularities which lead to an acquittal. How did we get to have so many cases in the past, which were not brought to the fight against corruption, nor to any clearing or outlet or fair trial? Whether we have had long delays or we have had serious collars, procedural obstacles or others, which have ultimately led to the cases not to go ahead. So our point, and in the case of today, is that the committees which are now in existence, are moving forward. That means we'll get to a fair trial. If the House finds itself in the examination of a corruption scandal, that does not mean, of course, that there will be no trial. There will be no regular referral to the competent body, i.e. justice. So the suspect, the defendant will be judged by his natural judge like all Greeks. This will be done quickly, this will be done efficiently, and this will be done without there being any problems recycled, which in the end could lead to a cancellation of the effectiveness of the process. Of course there is more to do with the chapter on justice, which is part of this bill. The Minister, Mr Kontonis, is right to say that the regulation on cases where cuts or other management and settlements in outstanding loans are to be made, should not be called an impunity. This is not an impunity in any way. It has nothing to do with this regulation, with which the responsibilities of people who had previously committed infidelities or any other crime were accorded. Here we have a regulation, which will apply to the future and which has as its characteristic an exception to the unfair character. What's he saying? It is not unfair for the transactions made by a manager to bring about a reduction in the loan to be viable for the debtor and to be collected - at least part - by the lender. That's what everyone wants. That's what the lender wants, and the debtor wants it, and the Greek society wants it, everyone wants it. How could that be unfair? Well, it's not. Because, of course, there must be no point in justifying this regulation, it also has substantial conditions, that is to say, when one will be allowed to take this decision, but also in procedural terms such as the examination by a special committee. I would like to end by pointing out, too, that the prospects, of course, are clear and positive for the countermeasures to be implemented, that these will be a historic turn not only in our country but also at a global level. Because a course to date shows that the welfare state and the public area are shrinking and deregulation, is beginning and being restrained and we are now moving towards new measures to strengthen the public interest and the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u450	We continue with Mrs Kefaliannis from New Democracy. Immediately afterwards, the Deputy Minister of National Defence, Mr. Vitsats, will take the floor. Here you go, Mrs. Kefaliannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u451	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that we have come to discuss this plan today, the fourth substantial memorandum, is not, despite the total incapacity of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. Over the past two and a half years, the government has lifted all the painful and great efforts of the Greek people, undermined everything that creative and dynamic could help and stimulate the economy of the country and every area of politics everywhere, has unfortunately done - and this government continues to do - incalculable and enormous damage. What are we supposed to talk about? About the mess of public administration? For the collapse of the health system? About the tourism that's on the autopilot? For culture, which is not only exploited as a growth force for the country but is caught in party, monolithic logics, which deprive the country of valuable revenues? Can we talk about the investments that are blocking? The economy of the country has returned and remains in recession. EUR 29 billion lost. New measures of EUR 14 billion have been imposed on citizens. Unemployment has been launched. Young people leave our homeland, live and produce wealth in other countries. Capital controls were imposed and unknown remains when this situation, which strangles and drowns entrepreneurship, will change. The competitiveness of the economy has deteriorated. Citizens' tax has been made abundant. The property of the state was pledged to a superstition for the next ninety years, and this second assessment was delayed for about fifteen months. You're coming now and you're talking about the debt. Let me just remind you that your government has come to power, promoting the issue of debt haircuts. You started by using a method of extortion to Europe, jeopardising our participation in the Eurozone, to end up talking about parametric solutions, which, as the only aim, have the hood of the problem in the will of our lenders and our possible involvement in the quantitative relaxation programme. I would like to remind you here that in 2014, we were successful in the markets, following the example of Portugal and Ireland, with the International Monetary Fund calling debt sustainable at that time. If that road had been followed unreservedly, Greece would have received at least two years of benefit from quantitative relaxation in an environment of negative interest rates, banks would have a much higher profitability, convincingly addressing the problem of red loans and financing growth would guarantee growth of the economy. Today the International Monetary Fund characterises debt as highly unsustainable. And now, you're looking to get back where we were then, do you have time to collect the imaginable most of the remaining benefits of the QE, which runs at the end of it. In the meantime, you poored the citizens, leveled the middle class. Today you bring another memorial to the second in two and a half years, which increases the bill that Greek women and Greeks will pay for over the next few years. Ladies and gentlemen, the fourth Memorandum has no funding, it brings cuts for 2017, 2018, reductions in special wages, seriously affecting the members of the Armed Forces and the Security Bodies. It increases in incomprehensibly the insurance contributions for freelance professionals and farmers. A million four hundred thousand free professionals and farmers will see new dramatic increases in their already exterior insurance contributions. The fourth memorandum reduces the income tax reduction for medical services, reduces the heating allowance, sawn social rights, i.e. measures affecting the weakest and puts us in a new protracted and lasting austerity cycle. Pensioners lose one to three pensions. The employees lose one more payroll. Family benefits are curtailed in the public and private sectors. There's a huge reduction in duty. Mr. Chakalotos told us that he's finally not quitting. I wonder what he'll say to our 1,3 million fellow citizens from the low income layers, who will pay for the first time a tax. Group redundancies are being released. New inappropriate arrangements are being made for the out-of-court mechanism, for corporate debt regulation. The already burdened and fragile social fabric is being pressed. Nevertheless, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has the courage to speak of countermeasures, which are only another deception, to go through the very harsh measures, since countermeasures require the vote and implementation of the very tough and socially unjust package of EUR 4.9 billion by 2021, with the gross anti-constitutional provision for the prior approval of creditors and, above all, of the International Monetary Fund by Article 15 and the permanent achievement of a high, huge primary surplus. The only thing is that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is burdening a series of unfair and very hard measures on the citizen, while the countermeasures are here and for them to be implemented, they must before unavoidable conditions are met. They're in the sphere of fantasy. And we wonder why, since the government has adopted the New Democracy's proposal to reduce VAT on agricultural supplies, it does not adopt our other proposals, but not after two - three years but now. Ladies and gentlemen, it is worth pointing out that, in the course of the debate on the bill in the committees, the multi-legislative bill has been strongly criticised by all forty-five bodies who were placed yesterday. Their positions were a homogeneous depreciation for SYRIZA - ANEL government policies and manipulations. There has been no mention by any body of countermeasures, as, as it turns out, these are only in the minds of the rulings. Obviously, the only government unfortunately does that he has not heard this, he does not understand why he has been cut off from society for a long time and society does not trust her. Ladies and gentlemen, the fourth Memorandum of Government SYRIZA - ANEL is an explosive mixture of social injustice, analgesia, unreliability, which impoverishes the Greek people. With the fourth memorial you manage, it is only to do what you have been dreaming so long, to do a political tool for poverty, to redistribute tolerance. That is why we can only tell you that it is a universal 'no', a 'no' all yours. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u452	The floor is for the Deputy Minister of National Defence, Mr. Vitsats.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u453	Thank you, Mr President. It's true I have various feelings. How can I say it? I had prepared a speech, let me say seriously, namely, to talk about the country's reproductive reconstruction, what we have to do in front of us, what the bets are, where we will be in 2019 and what we should do. But I hear a few speeches, which with regard to feelings, go beyond me. I'll say two things. I have here with me, not to testify, but to say two things, fifty-one pages that record the legislative arrangements from Law 3845/2010 until the end of 2014, which are titles and summary descriptions related only to insurance. I also have the new special payroll with me. And I really want to ask you. Why are you deceiving your Chief? What he said yesterday will bring back all these things, means that he will reduce the cost of the Armed Forces' wages to 19.5 million. Does he know? I will not say in particular about those who spoke before, because Mr Toskas spoke very much about these things, and I understand the disillusionment of the original in this sense: The strains of the Armed Forces have lived in 2012. Do you remember what happened in 2012? You remember. Cuts and then a special payroll that made new cuts.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u454	You go on with it, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u455	Here it is, Mr. Davaki. Do you know what your problem is? Not your staff, it's yours, it's yours and it's yours. That at the end of the month and at the end of the next month, some money will be entered into the accounts and they will see equal amounts or improvements. So in a month, two months, three months as much as some trade unionists, who want to make a potential and political career and probably not your party...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u456	You have instituted it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u457	Not from the Army. You know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u458	I'm talking about the Army, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u459	I say, then, that when some trade unionists on January 17 said that we might have withdrawn next year, but we will certainly also withdraw the government when there was no special wage. No matter how much you do, it takes a little bit and a little and a little, because they'll see it. The second is that what you need to know is that neither bite nor chew as either SYRIZA nor as a Greek people. You have a problem with your communists. You have a tactic, which has three points all and all. Three! The first point is the designations. And I'm glad Mr. Koutsukos is here. But for another thing, I'm glad and he'll know now. You do it permanently, as soon as you lose government authority. And I say to Mr Koutsouko - not personally - because if we go to the 1981 and 1982 newspapers, you will see that even in the 1981 PASOK you called them "fakes" and go by saying. Of course the 2010 PASOK communicates with the same tactic. This has to do with both the alarm and the way the system sucked up this political power. But that's one of his issues. The second element of your tactic is what you say in introductory words 'consciousness'. It is characteristic that each of your Vice-Presidents, in their own way, addressed the SYRIZA MPs in a very clear way and said to them: 'What are you doing this?' That's his good stuff, as you know, he's got his bad stuff. What's his good? The good news is that the following is being accepted. Left fights for the fairs, for the workers, etc. But who Left? He can fight for everything, he can do it all, claim it all, except claiming one, running the place, managing and changing society. There you fear that your supposed sacred right of address was lost and probably lost forever. But that's your pain and misery. This is your fear that this government has taken the country out of the memorial period, set it back on its feet, enables it to form and develop, play an essential role in the stability of the region and in the redefinition of Europe. The third element of your tactic is to do that you don't understand and you're trying to falsify historical memory. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you that as SYRIZA, we are very proud and proud to have been together with millions of citizens on the streets and squares against the first and most inappropriate memorandum. And there in the streets and squares the common perception of needing a great political change, a concept that defeated in 2014, twice in 2015, in the referendum and will continue to win with the exit from the memoranda, uniting in productive reconstruction goals, redistributing the wealth produced, forming a social state. Especially your 2014 reports make me resentable. They remind me of this guy who says, "A little time to go further, I would do it all," or that famous joke, which I imagine most of you know, the drowned man, who got him out of the street, passed a car over him, took a second car, took him, put him in, went in and crashed, and anyway, after two years of adventures, they reach him in a hospital and said: "Five minutes before you brought him to me, I would have saved him." You say 'knock' to the Greek people. That's what you do and that's your tactic. In this tactic, we don't bite. The successful completion of the negotiation for the second evaluation of the program for us and the Greek people is the ticket to the completion of the economic and not only of the country's committee and the discharge from the Memorandum period, a period for which Greek society paid an expensive price, as a result of the society of false prosperity, development with credit, corruption and interlocutory. This cost was not necessary. It has been imposed by ideologies of neoliberalism, international correlations and competition, the inability of our political system to deny its intertwined and dominating self. Today, through hard work and patient support from our people, we are in a new situation. This closure of the rating, the concreteness of the debt regulation have direct effects, create new opportunities and requirements. We are going through a period of stability, with signs of gradual recovery already making their appearance. Let me just tell you three. Greek bonds record low-seven years, while borrowing costs throughout the eurozone are constantly moving upwards. The participation of foreign investors in the issue of Greek government interest stamps and the fact that the Exchange has now covered all its losses since the summer of 2015 is a second factor. Reducing unemployment in your own ways is a given one. And we escaped from that appalling former minister's line, which said: 'We have managed to reduce the rate of unemployment growth'. I hope I do not hear him say that 'you have managed to reduce the rate of unemployment reduction'. The new period has time and goals, it has a roadmap. Outside the memorials in the summer of 2018, productive reconstruction, redistribution to the weakest, strengthening the social state, especially education and health. Some of the issues need to be said clearly. In 2019 and 2020, we will have heavy measures. We will have the opposite relief measures. And finally, some economist must tell you that the reduction in costs is an increase in the income available at individual and family level and someone must bring back the scoundrel. Dinner's not a basil. He told you in a cute way, I think our rapporteur, that what they eat in private schools - to say more chic - is meals and that is what the Greek family wins. The hundred in the rent is not a funny case. The 250 million in growth are new jobs and goes by saying. Based on this, I'm telling you that then we'll be done with the memos. We will have tried out our possibilities, and at the same time we must remember the fact that when we go out to the markets, we must borrow vaguely, that we must use the country's comparative advantages throughout this period, and that we must develop strong synergies between the social sectors of the economy, the private and the public sectors of the economy. And to solve a theoretical historical misunderstanding, liberalism and neoliberalism are with selfish individuality and the state of power. The left is with the social and public space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u460	Before giving the floor to the next speaker, Mr Koutsoukos asked for the floor. Why, Mr. Kutsuko?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u461	Mr President, I could take the one minute that the Rules of Procedure give me to ask for the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u462	Is this a personal matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u463	That's right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u464	What's the personal matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u465	The Rules of Procedure will give me a minute to speak on staff. I will tell you in one minute what the personal issue is and you will not have to give me the floor. I am telling you in this one minute that the Staff Regulations give me that it is not personal in my knowledge. But since Mr. Vitsats mentioned my name, I would say that I would accept his criticism of the classifications the parties exchanged, when they alter in power, as he said, if he said at least half a word of self-criticism about the designations "prosecutors, germans, fourth Reich, the junta did not end in 1973, we end them, we are over" and everything else. He didn't say anything and I'm sorry. That's what I mean. Mr President, I have spoken for fifty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u466	Mr President, I would now like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u467	But now we're going to open a new circle. Here, Minister, you have the floor for a minute. Warm request not to exceed your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u468	Mr. Kutsuko, I had the feeling that I honored you and your history and you reacted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u469	I didn't react!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u470	But I would like to restore, since you're giving me the opportunity to another neoliberal myth. In the years from 2009 to 2015, as you may know, I was Secretary of the SYRIZA Coalition and Secretary of the SYRIZA. If you find on the side of SYRIZA - and not from other parts - a placement such as those in today's SYRIZA - let me say it this way - pierce my nose. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I want to remind you of the words - how can I say it? - another - in my opinion - a great man, that we on the left always prefer conflict with arguments and programmes. Usually our opponents prefer to roll in the mud.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u471	Mrs. Merope Jufi has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u472	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin by expressing my feelings in this finally dynamic climate, which is constantly cultivating and conserving the New Democracy and the Democratic Alliance - and not only - by addressing us insulting, threats, accusations, vulgar or ungodly characterisations - you will allow me to say - with unparalleled enthusiasm. However, behind the dangers of vocalisation and extinction, their great agony and idle bulimia are hiding for their return to power, reminiscent of their brilliant ministerial terms, along with, of course, the interests they represent, which they are threatened with. So the leaderships of these two spaces have - let me say - codecision, going together more and more to the right - that the Radical Left is the deadly enemy who misleads societies with revolutionary rhetorics and thick words and must fail at all costs, to be an example for both the country and Europe. With the extremist tones, therefore, there is an attempt to maintain a generalised state of agnosticism, a total lack of memory and a lack of crisis to be adopted by the Greek people, to forget that they have been running the Greek state for over for over forty years, that they are responsible for the establishment of general opacity, client-government, extensive tax evasion, and even in periods of development, and that they have finally led the country to bankruptcy by degrading the Gross National Product by 25%, launching unemployment from 7% to 27%, reducing pensions, depleting the available insurance funds. In the climate, therefore, what Opposition creates together, of course, with the help of their beloved media, often succumbing to certain trade union leaders, as was actually recorded at the meeting with the actors. We are entitled - I think - to ask ourselves what these leaderships have been doing in the past hard times and what exactly did they give and organise to safeguard the interests of workers in recent years of the crisis. This, of course, does not mean that we are not listening to them and not taking them into account. For example, we have listened to the criticism of the CECF's position on the university's special wage bills. Let me say here that by depleting the minimum financial margins in this bill, we are marginally increasing the earnings of all members of the universities of the country and researchers, of course, by not restoring them from seven-year-olds fixed wages in order to protect the income of the country's high scientific potential in order to deter the phenomenon of Brain drain, while we recognize them as a pre-service to IOTAP- recognised private and public universities abroad, which is a long-term demand. We also correct requests, such as self-evident participation in the JEP research programmes, while we restored the omission for biologists, biochemicals, chemistry and clinical chemistry from the special pay they deserve for the important clinical laboratory work they have provided and continue to provide to university clinics, laboratories and units both in ERC hospitals and in university hospitals. Ladies and gentlemen, as others have said, this draft law actually contains unfair and burdensome measures which are in no way our choice. However, it also has balance elements, with measures that relieve many of the affected layers, with the sole condition that they be implemented to achieve a primary surplus, which the recent results show the potential to achieve. At the same time, they gain meaning and will be implemented if - and only if - there is a settlement of the debt issue and therefore exiting the country from the memoranda, under a reduced supervision regime since 2018 and then, as is foreseen for the countries of the European Union, which have previously emerged from the memoranda. Media and New Democracy are talking about the "fourth Memorandum" and they are trying to convince that the plan brings only EUR 4,9 billion by 2021, without any countermeasure. That's a lie. It is the New Democracy's useful falsehood to vote against the countermeasures, with which it basically disagrees, since the construction of the social state is an idealism of the Left and not of neoliberal ideology, which it embodies. In the medium term it is clearly recorded, as shown by the existing tables, that positive measures will total EUR 7.6 billion in 2021. In other words, an additional EUR 2 billion budget area is being created. At this point I would like to refer to the parts of the Social Welfare and Solidarity Legislation, pointing out that since the first time we took office, we have focused on supporting and strengthening the public structures and services of the social state, with a view to protecting families affected by austerity measures. At the same time, a special effort is being made to implement the necessary reform interventions throughout the whole range of the establishment, organisation and operation of these structures in the social protection system as a whole, as the social state we have received was based on the customer and private charity of the people who have been devastated, i.e., there is no such thing as the responsibility of the previous governments and the footprint of the lenders. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, allow me. Today, under conditions of war and budgetary strangulation, we will seek to reopen the system, using reliable structures and using European funds in particular. The budget of EUR 790,000 is thus increased in 2017, with a government choice, to 1.5m euros, while in 2019 it is planned to triple. Indicative important interventions so far are: the humanitarian crisis bill, the CRL with its universal application as of January 2017, school meals, community centres, free movement of persons in the public transport sector, the establishment of a special secretariat for social inclusion of Roma, mapping out settlements and living conditions, the abolition of the paradox KEPA for insurers, the protection of unaccompanied minors by extending and creating hospitality and care facilities. These are some of our own contributions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] One more minute, Mr President. We trust that the vast majority of invisible people, of them without a voice and seeing them and feeling them. The ‘disaster’, ‘exploitation’, ‘bad design’, ‘memorandum bombs on pre-innovation allowances’ shall not apply, since they have transferred appropriations to the CRL from four allowances to cover the same people. For example, the so-called ‘unprotected child’ received 44 euros a month, while the CRL may receive a hundred euros a month. With this plan we continue with this effort, with the adoption of positive measures - which have been mentioned - by extension, however, to people and families of medium-sized groups, which have been affected since the seven years of the crisis - and which have been mentioned -, such as the provision of rent subsidies, the inclusion of infants in nursery schools, the extension of the programme of school meals, the increase in family allowances, zeroing or a reduction in pharmaceutical expenditure for 6.6 million citizens, VAT reductions, in addition to agricultural supplies, and the multiple aids of disabled people, with a clear aim to alleviate the lives of vulnerable groups. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the agreement and hence the bill provide the Greek economy and society with space and time to heal the wounds, to reconstruct and develop. It contains difficult measures, a result of compromise with the vastly stronger partners. However, it gives a signal out of the crisis, the Memorandum and the hard comitology. The scenery can be blurred and the Greek people tired and disappointed after seven years of crisis. However, the leftover plan is tested every day and tries to respond to today's challenges, overcoming the major difficulties, not only in our country but also at European level. We must not fail, not only because we have been elected to represent the humble and despised and the world of honest work, but also because, unfortunately, the visible alternatives are aggressive neoliberalism and the extreme centre, while the forces of anthropophagia, darkness and fascism, not only in France and the other European countries, but also in our country. There are the Serial Killers and not at the headquarters of the Coupling, as an MEP called them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u473	Mrs. Jufi, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u474	I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u475	Excuse me. You asked for a minute and you took three.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u476	And he needs abrupt front to their faces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u477	Mrs Maria Triantafel has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u478	Thank you, Mr President. I think that the permanent task of all of us must be to understand the reality and the context. We live at a time very dense in events, with stormy changes at European and international level. We live in a difficult time. We have a social disaster landscape, with 25% reduction in GDP and much more. We have a political system that is destabilised and demilitarised. We have geopolitical processes that are dangerous and complex. The country is also overdue by a commissioner. Once again, the whole debate on the causes of the disaster that is taking place today would be at least ridiculous and hypocritical - not to say what it is - if it were not so tragic. Loggering and disorientation are on the agenda. How did he reap the debt? The developers who have ruled the country for so many years what do they say? Because the debt, which is, in fact, a tool for subjugating and manipulating the people, did not reap through accounting scams - of course, there were too - but was harvested through policies that were promoted. The main of these was the productive dismantling of the place, and then the bankruptcy, the taxation of large capital, the robbery of public contracts and, if I may say so, the investments of monkeys. You all agree on investment and development. Mr Dimitris Emmanoulidis mentioned examples of deindustrialisation in the country. I want to ask, really, from 2012 to 2014, that government that had a success story and that - I really want someone to say - how many investments have taken place in our country. Do you know the percentage of investments? I'd really like you to say that if you know. And there was the continuation of your works known as the customer's domination, the ruse, the borrower's, the furnished prosperity, the kleptocracy. You are asking us where the transparency would be and what the committees have shown us. We'll see. We need to see everything. But you must know that the Greek people are watching everything. He's watching our own mistakes. Many times, in my view - and here I shall disagree with the dear Secretary of State, Mr Vitsa - we are giving the impression that we are hampered against monsters. But everyone is watching this orchestrated special group that makes news, or lies. For example, I have heard many times - and today, of course - about the unconstitutionality of many of the legislations of this government, the pre-constitution of the Pappa Act. I would like to ask: which law will the channels be licensed? But by the law of Pappa, of course! The Pope lost the contest, but not the law. An anti-constitutional issue was considered to be the award of the authorisation to the Government, instead of the PSE. That's a lie again. Statutory reconstruction goes through disinformation, as well as the creation of a mass psychological defeat in the world. People care what happened, but what happens. There's a rhetoric for a fourth memorial. The measures brought by the Government are the result of the second assessment of the third memorandum, which signed a New Democracy and a PASOK. A fourth memorandum and exit to the markets cannot be made. Fourth Memorandum would mean a new loan programme. It would mean canceling the current. It would mean failure to meet targets. Here we have the exact opposite. A global agreement is sought for exit from the comitology. There may be disagreements, problems, criticisms, but that is what is being pursued. There is a crescendo of morality: You are sold out, liars, you dishonor your conscience, you have deceived, you will be punished. These are not political arguments, but emotional derailment for reasons of impressive and, indeed, caffeine type. Of course, there is always the argument of the success story or the argument 'We would go out on the market'. How would we go out on the market, without debt regulation, without red loan regulation? Why didn't you set them up? You didn't have time, we shot you. How would we go out without a stable banking sector and - most importantly - without a change in production model and productive reconstruction? We would go out to the market with an economy broken down, charming at the hands of international well-being and their domestic friends, as always, to stay back in the board after a while. This is essentially a criticism of the economic policy of the Samara - Venizelos Government. I would like to say a few words about the agreement. It is a product of specific processes, of specific data, of specific correlations and, of course, of specific political options. These processes included - and include - evaluations of the Greek programme agreed in 2015 between Greece and the institutions. We have a deal. We are choosing to move towards the renegotiation of the Greek debt, with society standing and the European Union, if not an ally, at least not an adversary. You are telling us that the Greek debt debate has opened, that you have opened the debate. It's a lie. You can't open a debate on the debt in your party either. However, a key factor in the effectiveness and defence of the agreement as a whole is whether it will be able to satisfy the Treaty on which it is being carried out, namely the completion of the committee's regime, the achievement of stability, the exit into the markets, the change in the investment climate, the recovery of freedom of policy. I do not need to repeat the difficult measures. There are positive provisions. Of course, what matters is to see what this exit means, the country's way out, what that light means in the tunnel. Above all it means, in my opinion, a country to produce. Another organisation of production is needed. The model cannot have evidence of parasiticism. Parts of society cannot be paralysed at the expense of other parts of society. It means enrichment of public life and its civilization. It means democratic reforms in the institutions. It means strengthening health and education. It means, above all, citizens' responsibilities, not heterogeneous definition and falsification. I would like to say a few words about the special payroll, although the State Secretary spoke earlier. There's a squabble here for the uniforms. There is, indeed, reasoning for the uniforms. You are being cut off for the lives of the perpetrators, those who keep nationals, that is, the people, the interests, but you do not have enough confidence in them to allow trade unionism. You're cut off for their wages, but you've cut them twice. What's the bill doing? Very quickly I will tell you that it adopts the reform of special wages on the basis of two directions: the need to limit their current number from twenty to seven and the need to rationalise the remuneration of officials and employees. Of course, there is a merger of benefits at the basic salary. It was a fixed place for the workers. There is no reduction and, above all, there is a complete safeguard for the specific nature of the work. Finally, you cannot convince anyone, ladies and gentlemen - no one - that the pain for democracy has suddenly caught you and what the so-called bodies in the committees say when you yourself voted on a memorandum with society. It is none of your concern to convince you that SYRIZA has become a memorial tomb. It's none of your business to convince you that SYRIZA is a captive. One thing, in my view, you are seeking: to convince the Greek people that the biggest mistake in his history was that he turned your back, turning his back into the complexion, subjugation, that is to say, what led Greece and the Greeks to become experimental animals in the preservatives of the IMF and the most conservative circles of the European Union. We want to apologise for not choosing to politicise at no cost, which we did not choose to reproduce, to have our peace, but also your admiration, as a consistent left force! I am sorry that our positions do not stop at 'no', but we insist on policy once again on transformation! I'm sorry we're learning to focus on what and how! I'm sorry we're holding the command!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u479	Mrs. Triantafel, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u480	I shall conclude, Mr President. SYRIZA - ANEL Government will be judged on whether it has suffered to pave the way for the country's exit from the comitology, keeping the society upright and serving democracy. The straitjacket better suits those who think they can put him back on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u481	Mr Maximos Charakopoulos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u482	I would say to you, Mr President, that you apologise to the Greek people for cheating on him with gross lies and intercepting his vote. Ladies and gentlemen, the fourth memorandum we are discussing, the memorandum of the terrible cuts and the long austerity that the government loads the place, was inappropriate, as was the third after the closure of the banks. And this second Memorandum, in two and a half years, is only your own work and it comes to confirming what everyone is now aware, that you are willing to any retreat, concession and assignment, in exchange for a little more time to the thugs of power. You, of course, continue to speak and behave as if Greece were the country of the hills. The truth, however, cannot hide behind the lies of government propaganda. And the truth is that every day more at the Maximos Mansion for SYRIZA, it means every day and lower for the Greek people. You received an economy that came out of the crisis, which saw the end of the memorials and brought it to the tartars. From the 'no 1 euro measures' and the 'end of austerity and sacrifices', which Mr Tsipras promised in the fourth memorandum, you charged us with EUR 4.9 billion. And along with the EUR 9.2 billion in the third memorandum, the account exceeds EUR 14 billion, i.e. EUR 3,400 for each household. The bride is being called upon to be paid mainly by the pensioners who promised them algae for silk ribbons in order to save the vote. And now you're grabbing them through the hands of two pensions. However, the bride is also paid for by all the taxpayers who will see from the reduction in duty to make one more monthly. The bride is paid by the free professionals, but also by farmers, with an even greater increase in insurance contributions. The bride is paid by our weak financial citizens by reducing the heating allowance, but also by a series of social benefits. The bride pays, even retrospectively, members of - the Armed Forces and the Security bodies by reducing special wages. In this case, the government is unrealisticly violating any concept of legal and political honesty. Instead of applying the decisions of the Council of State, returning the remaining 50% of the wages of workers in the Security Body, with wage arrangements impairs unequivocally the people who are at risk of their lives for the safety of our fellow citizens, for the preservation of the country's property and natural wealth. By abolishing the calculation of the army and of the years of university education in the wage scales of thousands of people will see reductions in their incomes. Mr. Toskas just now said that there will be no problem with those who have been able to identify the time of the army. The others? With the new wages, there is a direct reduction in pay for new entrants in the Security Councils - at least that is what I did not see called into question - and there is a personal difference for those who are already in employment. However, you are putting wages in a deep freeze in the vast majority of consultants, who will not be able to regain their real incomes - some even until they are demobilised - if they do not exceed the personal difference. Mr Toskas, in order to enjoy the impressions, told us that personal differences are institutionalised, consolidated and have no time limit for application. But how can you believe that you can guarantee the future of personal differences in the salaries of police officers and firefighters when, in the fourth memorandum, you cut the personal difference in pensions? In addition, since the personal difference will not be calculated in the reservation for the proportional pension, it will lead to a further reduction in pension earnings. Remove even the five-day allowance and state that uniforms will be able to receive a super-process allowance for only four weekends a month. Instead of fifty or two weekends a year will receive forty - eight. A few minutes ago a legislative improvement was filed. But all this, ladies and gentlemen, reminds us of the well-known story with Hodja. You impose a number of negative arrangements and when you withdraw some, you want them to tell you and I thank you. I am tabling a motion for a resolution on the totalitarian protest of the Security Councils, condemning the rulings to treat them as citizens of a third world country. [[At this point the Member, Mr Maximos Charakopoulos, presents for the minutes this resolution, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are aware of the allergy of the police officers. However, it must once be understood that the rule of law without Security bodies cannot be established. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] We therefore call on you, since the Minister has told us that he will review with the Ministry of Finance the payroll scales in order to make corrections, withdraw the payroll arrangements and consult all stakeholders. In any case, the commitment of the New Democracy and the President of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is the implementation of the decision of the Council of State on the reimbursement of outstanding retrospectives, as well as the submission of a new salary for the Armed Forces and the Security Body that will ensure decent remuneration. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the red lines for Mr Tsakalotou's dutyfree and pensions were sacrificed on the altar of the red carpets of power. The truth is that, for the implementation or not of the famous countermeasures after the end of the memorandum, the International Monetary Fund is required and that for full implementation there is a need for surpluses of 5.5%. You are not saying what our rapporteur said this morning that with 3.5% the countermeasures will be zero. In order to achieve increased surpluses, however, a tax policy will continue which has already plunged the backbone of the country's production base and eliminated the middle-class. You continue a disastrous and dead-end course that causes suffocation to entrepreneurship and kills the real economy. Ladies and gentlemen, the demagogy experiment has been paid for and we still pay it very much. It is time to change the lines in the light of the truth and the hard work to finally get out into the clearing of real growth and prosperity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u483	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u484	You didn't hear the Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u485	What didn't we hear?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u486	It's understandable now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u487	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u488	Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u489	Mr President, I would just like to speak for a minute. Thank you very much. You have not yet reached the Bureau, but there has been a very good discussion between Mr Koutsouko, our rapporteur, and Mr Vitsa, the Deputy Minister for National Defence, on excesses of the past. Mr. Koutsoukos said that if you want to speak otherwise, please apologize for something you have said. He said, "I was a Secretary of the Coalition and SYRIZA." If you find me someone who has made an exaggerated statement of intent, which was in SYRIZA or in the coalition, and in any case, it has remained in the SYRIZA party, I will accept. I conclude - and I conclude with this - two statements by the Prime Minister, the current Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras. One is 2012 and it states: "All the previous period we heard from Mr. Papademos, Mr. Venizelos, Mr. Papandreou and Mr. Samaras. Europeans may say that we are all Greeks, but rather some Greeks are not so Greek. Those who govern us." That's the first. "Mr. Papandreou has already exceeded Thatcher, he has overcome Pinochet, and finally seems that in order for him to be held in power a little longer, he is ruthless. Whatever they ask him, he will announce it.’ I address the two parties from the Prime Minister's speeches on the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u490	Thank you very much. Ms. Big Economics has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u491	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, after just two days of committees and a bill of nearly a thousand pages that brings up - down again in the Greek economy, we come today to discuss a theater of irrationality. The government is trying to convince us that we have the best possible measures and countermeasures before us, and we are seeing the harsh reality that the Greek people first understand. We are talking about another hard text with many burdens on households and businesses that will make it even more difficult for the everyday life and the decent living of the average Greek family. First of all, one of the main black points of the bill is the new pension change, which will bring down even 18% if the benefits are calculated. And I ask, gentlemen of the government: How many reductions can Greek pensioners still withhold EUR 500? Did the new Republic - PASOK not suffer any reductions other than twelve times? Why, at least, did not a distinction be made in order to protect at least the genuinely low pensioners or vulnerable groups, such as people with disabilities? It does not mean in a civilised country that reductions are accepted indiscriminately, for all, and even for pensioners, in particular for those of the third age who have no other way of surviving. In addition to our logical objections, there are, of course, the legal objections of the Court of Auditors to the constitutionality of the new cuts, as well as the questions raised by the Scientific Office of Parliament as to whether these cuts eventually lead to the violation of the dignity of pensioners. The dignity, ladies and gentlemen of the government, is a word that, unfortunately, we have forgotten over recent years. We are dealing only with the State's revenue, budgetary objectives, surpluses and we have completely forgotten the concepts of social justice, dignity and equality. For example, for the first time it is legislated to allow the opening of shops to be extended on Sundays. It is a question of what the government is targeting. Because, yes, large shops, multi-shops and shopping centres can benefit, but a huge question arises about small and medium-sized shops, which will not be able to respond to increased payroll costs, etc., which means opening up on Sundays. The explanatory statement makes no sense at all in this respect. He's talking about growth in tourist spending. However, there is no point in small and medium-sized enterprises, which will probably be a step ahead of the paddock, and it is the backbone of Greek entrepreneurship and economy. I would like to stress that if you are interested in the tourist regions, good shops in the tourist regions, taking the signal from the EOT, they can be open 24 hours a day and all the days of the month. There is no commitment, so long as they have taken the signal from the EOT that they belong to tourist areas and Athens and other places where they are tourists. So you can't invoke that. So you're probably favouring multinationals. Because, if you know, too many multinationals who have shops everywhere, they have their labs in international waters, so their profits are leaving directly abroad. So you are only helping big businesses and not small and medium-sized enterprises. You condemn them to the final death. And after all these austerity and recession measures, there is an increase in insurance contributions for freelance professionals and farmers. We are, of course, not forgetting the strong support of the coup d'état in the Katrugalos Act, for which both Mr Katrugalos himself and the government have stressed how much low income professionals will benefit. And now there is a great overturn in the way the contributions are calculated again in order to increase the revenues of the funds. Obviously, you have no problem with the fact that professionals are unable to pay their contributions as they are today. It is therefore truly worth wondering that you think they will suddenly be able to pay contributions and even increased contributions. In fact, I pointed out before that the old contributions had to be frozen, since the crisis began, from 2009, until today, and if they can pay the current payments. But you don't take that into consideration and say you're going to make the hundred and twenty doses. Well, you're not going to do anything. You're just gonna get their properties, or you're gonna take them to auctions. It is clear that you are legislating not just outside the economic endurance, but also outside any reality. However, the bill also contains some extremely dangerous regulations. In fact, the fact that you're downgrading the role of the Prosecutor of Economic Crime is highly suspicious and dangerous. First of all, the public prosecutors have a primary obligation towards the Constitution to serve justice. Therefore, there is no reasonable and legal basis for the fact that the Financial Prosecutor cannot order, whenever he considers it, a preliminary examination, but that the Independent Authority for Public Revenue has the first reason! The D.A. can't do it. The independent authority can't do it. In addition to all these other dozens of suspect arrangements, the most worrying are the rapid seizures that now come for public debts, as well as the new electronic auction procedure. In particular, new auctions, in the way they are going to be, will lead quickly, immediately and without much of a reaction to losing their homes. In fact, the starting price will now be the commercial value of the properties, which in most cases is lower than the objective value. I ask you, Mr Minister of Finance - you are not here - this is what will be the price for the auction? I did research, and it's going to start from two thirds of the real value. For example, one has received a 100,000 euro loan. The real value is 50,000 euros and will start from 2/3. And they will be responsible for the guarantors who signed for their children, you will take the home of the guarantors they signed to help them and they will owe you. At least, do the American system, take it from them, but don't even owe them. Such an arrangement is extremely unfair... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr President, this is something very interesting. Please give me a minute. Even today all the taxes on real estate, such as the transfer tax and HNVIA, are calculated on the basis of the objective values. I'm going to suggest something else. The residence we live in now or our country tax. You have failed to tax the last residence. Well, the last residence is the most efficient. If you go to the First Cemetery and see how much the messages are sold and in areas, that's where taxation is. There's the permanent residence that you'll get the dead out of the house to pay you the ENPIA. That's what you missed. You need to rethink it. Another major issue is the situation faced by borrowers from the funds, the ones in the Greek "brows" that will buy the loans from the credit institutions. Of course, for many months now, since the vote of Mr.4389/2016, both I and the Central Association have supported the idea that the borrower himself could buy his loan before being sold to the fund at exactly the same price. But the government is deaf, and so I have had to table an amendment today, to give them the right to call on the bank to buy their loan at the price they will sell on the funds. Why shouldn't the Greek buy it and get the fund? To get them to stay in the cardboard box? I don't accept it. Admittedly accept the amendment. The world will rise. After you sell them where to sell them, give them the right to buy them themselves. They might want to sell their kidney, we don't care about the guarantor selling his eyes, they'll pay for the loan. Give them a chance. That's how you're condemned from all over the world. Of course, this is tragic.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u492	Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u493	The countermeasures are ‘freezers’. But the world has now stopped trusting you. Find solutions that will give way to the tragic situation they are experiencing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u494	Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras, Independent MEP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u495	Thank you, Mr President. I've been in the Chamber since this morning. I raised objections to the constitutionality of Articles 1 and 2, provoking the annoyance of arrangements concerning the reductions in personal differences, the cuts in family allowances allegedly having or claimed to have guaranteed in May 2016 the Katrugalo Law. The bill, of course, is not just pension arrangements, even if it is the first chapter and the main title, but it also has a number of other arrangements that create a number of problems and, if you want, they also create a number of further difficulties for Greeks. I'll give an example. Fifteen days ago the provisions on the extrajudicial compromise were passed. He was very welcome by the government and the opposition followed it and I personally followed it with great attention. I had my objections, I had my objections. But today, I am perversely opposed. What for? After 15 days, Article 46 of the bill comes and for the extrajudicial mechanism reveals an amateur government mood. Why? Looks like the banks were protesting, majestics, or I don't know who they are. So it modifies a basic principle of the mechanism which, during the announcements, would lead to the relief and regulation of small and even larger business loans and what does it say to us? If a creditor refuses to accept the amount of the debt as determined by the debtor, the coordinator or the expert, he may refer the matter to the court. Little bad, I'd say. However, if the creditor, the creditor, is the largest in percentage, there can be no compromise and the case is brought before the courts to determine the amount of the debt or claim. Do you know what that means? Seventeen, if I am not mistaken, Greek banks, some of them not good, have ceased to exist or merged with larger ones, and all systemic banks have raised loans of smaller banks and are the major creditors over 80% -85% of enterprises, especially small businesses, because small businesses were not traded with many banks, but with one, where they were able to facilitate. With this arrangement, which is given the right to the banks to question the amount of the debt, as at least the coordinator or expert accepts it, we leave the extrajudicial compromise and go to the courts, which we are again burdening them. But that's not what I'm asking. The point is that the purpose of the law is cancelled by means of a regulation which had not been subject to the extrajudicial mechanism. In any case, these will trouble us very much. Let me tell you about electronic auctions. I can hear it at the outset, but at the moment with the concentration of residential and commercial property by the banks, it is not appropriate to time for quick auctions, because, on the one hand, real estate will be removed very easily, on the other hand, for the same property to be displayed in the auction, there will be so much supply on the market, while demand will be too little. This will create conditions for 'curtains' that gather against low-priced prices, sound auctions, and will not serve the economy. On the contrary, another portion of the Greek population will be impoverished. Of course, I am quoting, and I say this: the poor Proceedings Authority how many times will be amended in the last year for public works? Today we have been told by a provision of Article 61 that it is appropriate to put pension judges in place. I've said it, I've called it. I'm not against the judges. And I appreciate them and respect them. But when you put a retired person who has completed his term of office, he has completed his career in the courts and goes to an independent authority, do you know what he's turning it into? In a court of court, "do not and will be affected by a court ruling that will appeal, do not detract from our authority and delay the settlement of disputes". I shall give an example to the Competition Committee. I do not think it is effective in the number of decisions. The Competition Committee is being called upon to make decisions which do not fall within the courts. I don't care if he makes ten decisions. I want it to take a hundred, to promote competition, and let the 50 in the courts fall. So another mistake. And one last thing, because I see that time is approaching, which is the issue of the responsibility of representatives of the public and banks. And that sounds good. But he has problems, you know, in his application. It has a major problem interfering with the question of criminal prosecution. He said the Justice Minister would be an application for authority. I should like to accept that as regards the Chief Inspector for Public Administration, who does not call me up on such an arrangement for civil servants and officials. But should I accept it with a three-member Committee of Appeals, which will suggest to the Prosecutors' Prosecutors the exercise of prosecution? Will it be a hierarchical order, or will we be able to distinguish? Because every complaint in these cases also creates disciplinary action and leads from now on. He tells you: let's refer it back, let's make a preliminary, see if it's his fault or not. So will the case be brought to a number of bases many times, persecution, or will the prosecutor have the right, when he considers that there are no defects, to suggest acquittal or discharge to the Council? It is an issue that we need to see today. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall finish, Mr President. Minimal tolerance. Forgive me if I speak legally many times, but I get carried away from a long time of work. There is another issue in the same provision of Article 65. The Ministry of Justice tells us that "we are good for those who did the operations the previous ones do not have retroactive effect of the provision on criminal discharge and civil law discharge for those responsible for managing the loans". It doesn't have retroactive power. But I know one thing and one thing, that the most urgent law applies retroactively, because otherwise the principle of equality is being violated. And if a law says that it does not have retroactive force, can it, in fact, stand in view - since we were talking this morning about constitutionality of provisions - and Article 7 of the Constitution with two-way power? It is not just the principle of legality that there must be criminal law on liability. It also has the two-way power that the law must be applied retroactively. And I'm ending up saying this. That provision is substantive law and therefore the last paragraph of Article 65 must be deleted. If the government wants to solve the problem, it has a road to abolish Law 1608/1950 on public abuses, which then covered other needs and budgetary and economic needs, and we maintain it today, and we consider it to be a felony and, indeed, a lifelong imprisonment. Fortunately the death penalty was abolished, because in its original wording it also had the threat of the death penalty. Let him abolish Law 1608, equate citizens, individuals, civil servants so that justice can be done in the end. Otherwise, I have raised my objections to the bill. I would also like to thank the Bureau for its time-to-time tolerance and my fellow Members for their attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u496	Thank you. The speaker of SYRIZA, Mr Theodoros Dritsas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u497	Thank you, Mr President. When friends, neighbors, relatives, people daily express to me and to all of us their complaint, their question, their protest or their anger, because they are being cut off by their pension or any other provision, then indeed my attitude, but also by all the Members and members of the SYRIZA, is an apology and explanation and commitment. It is an apology, precisely because we have an absolute conscience and the responsibility we have taken, but also the responsibility for how much we will be able to respond to that responsibility. But when New Democracy, PASOK, Potami, is trying to leave SYRIZA MPs on matters of conscience, then one cannot really react with rage, because when political forces that have taken the lead in the bankruptcy of the country, in the bankruptcy of the Greek economy, but also in general demilitarisation, at these moments, and after these painful experiences, which have been experienced by the people, the country, Parliament, the institutions, everyone, to stand up to this conscience, then we understand that there is no chance of a future with these attitudes and with these obsessions in power. That's what this is about. It is a constant allergic shock that a left party governs this country. This is very difficult, almost impossible, to tolerate those who have not just ruled, but have organised a regime for many decades with many tentacles and many expressions and expressions and not just political ones. So I answer those who are calling us, not our political opponents, but in society: Is there anywhere in SYRIZA's programme or daily speech aimed at reducing the standard of living of the Greeks by flaming ideological and politically and politically and politically applied, to reduce social costs, to reduce the state's labour costs, because only through them will growth come? But these powers have also been based on them, unfortunately, they are still leading Europe and the world all over. So when the issue was raised in November - December 2016 with regard to the demands and compelling of the powerful forces of lenders to the Greek Government once again for new cuts, in part of the pensions, or in expanding the tax base downwards - ideological obsession is this, and not only, but also a Gospel for liberals that this is how economies should be governed - the Greek Government has certainly resisted and then it was well known, as much as so much else. No political force has taken any position to support the Greek Government. And if he did not want to support it for reasons of regular, strategic or, in any case, historical, he could support the Greek society and take advantage of the fronts that could be brought to the forces of Europe, the European People's Party, the Social Democratic Party, the Socialist International, all that are their parties and that have these views. To support Greek society. Artificially and wickedly and hypocritically, they did not do so, but pushed: "Why is evaluation delayed and the country is destroyed and the economic sizes deteriorated?" And as self-confirmed prophets, they come today to say: “Have you seen where we told you? You have been delayed and this has had consequences and that is why you have been forced to do so." Really? Is this a reading of the reality or the fact that the political views of both the New Democracy and the PASOK and their programmes are consistent with the neoliberal policies of the forces that are leading in the field of lenders and across from them the Greek Government is trying to defend the rights of the Greek people? Let us have a serious debate now that things are critical and that is not the case, with easy declarations that we will reduce taxes here or do one another, get growth. Development comes with a plan, comes with the participation of society, the participation of creative and productive forces and with a lot of insistence and policies supported by society. At this crossroads is our government today. In this painful compromise, he made sure that he had exactly the countermeasures, which also hypocritically come all these interdependent and authoritarian forces, who cannot be cured by an allergic shock because a left-wing government has chosen it, to say: "It is nothing to rent, 600 million", not for a year, but a year. "It is nothing to reduce or zero the drug participation, 240 million a year." "It's nothing like 140 million" for the first time, and we see, but year after year, more for daycare stations. "It is nothing more than 190 million extra per year for school meals." "It is nothing less than 260 million for family allowances per year and, in addition, for the first and second and, of course, the third children." It's nothing, and they're coming because the lenders gave it to us. That's it.- Oh, my Ladies and gentlemen, we have an absolute conscience. We are concerned not only with our consciences, but with our history and our responsibility towards the Greek people and we are not going to be neoliberal and we are not going to be a descendant of our ideological and political goals and we are not going to stop fighting to the end in unfamiliar connections, trying not only to stay up, but to stay society to change these relationships, to change these policies both in Greece and in Europe. This race is not one day's, it's not a spriders, it's a marathon, and from this point of view it takes steel nerves, it takes the strengths of Emil Zatopek's "motor engine", which from the first hundred meters seemed tired, but in the end took all the world championships and all the Olympic medals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u498	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Pinheiro, from New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u499	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, the government brings to Parliament the memorial tomb of the absolute poverty of Greek society, the memorial tomb that clashes in the most vague way the myth of the supposed social sensitivity that SYRIZA has. As much as you communicate the new lie account called "antimeters", you do not believe that you have negotiated for the good of the country. On the contrary, you lead us with mathematical accuracy on the lip of destruction. We told you the evaluation should have been closed last year. Your delays, however, loaded the citizens with these 4,9 billion euros you are bringing to the vote. You have been indifferent and sliding and lost valuable political time and advantage for the country and did not defend it as you ought to. You're cutting your pensions further. You are abolishing social benefits. You're reducing duty. You are burdening the free professionals, farmers, farmers, fishermen, fishermen. You who considered the well-known mail to be voting nine and a half times more. This reveals your political default and the lies you have told the Greek people so many years to sit in the government chairs. In my law, Evros, the percentage of people living in conditions of absolute poverty reaches 7%. The crisis has brought them to their knees. They lost their jobs, their businesses, and believed in the words of yours, the big ones. You have disappointed them, however, and they are now surviving thanks to the aggregations of the metropolitan cities, local municipalities, organisations and our fellow citizens. You lead to extinction of farmers, farmers and fishermen. We're experiencing their agony at Evros. Proof of your sensitivity is that you raise their insurance contributions and at the same time you are inconsistent with your financial obligations to them. So it is certain that within a short time no one will be involved in agriculture, livestock and fisheries. You are in the worst way blocking the officials of the Armed Forces and the Security Corps, the two of the three pillars - the other is justice - on which our state and democracy is founded. And you do not think that you need them at the rate you sign the memos, both in order to keep the order inside the country and in order to protect our borders and security following the escalating challenges of our neighbours. And instead of saying thank you, you're cutting off their special payroll, even though you're trying to gold the pill. After you have thrown so much gold dust, please table an amendment - fashion is - and I think you will solve their problems, and even definitively. Since you do not, you must get the bill back and have a conversation from the beginning. Do not play games like the ones with the personal difference, which lead to the reduction of earnings, mainly for middle management and downwards. Also, you continue to have forgotten in your drawer the decision of the Council of State to restore remuneration to the levels of July 2012, i.e. to grant the other 50% of the retained remuneration. At the same time, as far as the Armed Forces and the Security Body are concerned, there is the oxymospheric phenomenon between equals and the same years of service, mismatches of grades and pay, but of a different category, pay smaller wages, creating disquiet and possible civilisation in this way. That is why I would again suggest that you withdraw the provisions on these matters so that, through the proper consultation of two months, you can come back with a new regulation in a spirit of law and also of realism. Clear the issue of benefits. Please satisfy the demands of the Armed Forces and Security Bodies, who under difficult conditions are doing their full duty. A sample of the incredible preoccupation of the plan you bring is that in Article 127 special working conditions are provided for officials of the Armed Forces for work without hours. So, what does that mean? That the military are going to work without hours? When New Democracy becomes a government, as our President Kyriakos Mitsotakis has promised, before the representatives of all the executives, will return the retrospectives pending and we will bring a new salary to the vote that will ensure decent remuneration. In conclusion, I should like to address an issue concerning the port of Alexandroupolis. My fellow Members of SYRIZA of the Prefecture of Evros presented a few months ago as a success the fact that the port is leaving TIED and is part of the superstate. Finally, this is not the case according to today's multi-project. The strange but also the suspect in history is that according to the English text of the bill, which has seen the light of publicity in the media, the port of Alexandroupolis along with the remaining nine ports remain in the TIED and will be exploited by concession contracts. On the contrary, in the Greek text and in particular in Article 81 there is no such reference to the ten regional ports, which remain in the TIPED, which are currently being launched on its website for sale. I put the two texts, the Greek-language and the foreign-language in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Anastasios Prussakis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Finally, what will you, ladies and gentlemen, and Mr Ministers, do with the port of Alexandroupolis and the other ports? Will you sell the port of Alexandroupolis, yes or no? Is what the Prime Minister of the country said when he visited Alexandroupolis in November 2016 and January 2017 that the port can evolve into a commercial and transit hub? The port of Alexandroupolis is a key pillar of the development of the law of Thrace and of the whole country. Its effective exploitation is directly linked to the smooth operation of the Northeastern Aegean coastlines we claim, the airport, the railway line, the Nea Egnatia, the main road corridors, but also to the modernisation of incoming points and costs, and that is easy to understand. We call for the link between transport, so that we do not lose traffic burdens, because of our malfunctioning and for the benefit of the so-called 'para - Egnatia'. By bringing the fourth memorandum you claim to be saving the country. The truth is, you're saving your chairs. And because you have caused pain with your policies, I wish, when you leave power, that you do so, having caused birth pain and not destruction. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u500	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Nikolaos Friend from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u501	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the agreement on the closure of the second assessment, as well as the measures we have to vote on, marks the country's stay in the suffocating Memorandum. That is what the Prime Minister said. That's our place, no outrages. We don't play succes story games. I know communication doesn't sound well to admit that the Memorandum Forces remain. It's okay. The truth cannot be subject to the needs of communication. We, with our efforts, with our achievements and our mistakes, still do not sign ideological and political accession to the strategy of capital and neoliberalism. We are giving the New Democracy and the other willing ones who have told us that the memorials are happiness and that if they were not there, we should invent the property of these programmes. The battle continues, therefore, and the government succeeds in targeting, exploiting cracks, contradictions and conflicts between lenders. It has promoted and promoted countermeasures, not only those that we are going to vote on today, but also those which have already become a reality, such as social solidarity, our health policy and access to care for all insecure citizens, the return to normality in education, the opening up of all schools on time - something that will be repeated this year - the upgrading of special education, the adoption of the law on private education - which, despite the pressures, the government must defend particularly against the troika of homeless people - school meals, the education of refugees, the upgrading of the PSAs, and the reforms in the organisation and content of the education that we have started and are continuing with a guiding idea, the school of equality and quality, the activation of labour inspectors to hit labour force and much more. The measures were therefore imposed on us after a great battle that we fought in 2015 and led to a painful compromise, which we put into the Greek people's crisis. The negative consequences of this compromise have not been eliminated. In voting on today's measures, we are bound up with the convictions of the Left and the retreats of society. For our Left, the morality of belief depends on its moral responsibility. But there is one point where, if you go beyond your beliefs, you undermine the ability to exercise your responsibility. I have a problem: Do you exercise your responsibility when you break Sunday's holiday? When, by force even, you lose the veto and facilitate team redundancies? When indiscriminate bank accounts are seized? When the loan is granted to funds for housing loans and does not the borrowers prefer it? When you call a positive countermeasure the reduction of the tax rate in all companies, that is also in those with very high profitability? SYRIZA is a government in Greece, but others are the links in Europe with the hegemony of neoliberalism which is reflected in the entire economic architecture of the Eurozone. It is an architecture which, with different characteristics from country to country, imposes the sovereignty of capital on labour everywhere. Especially in our country, with the deadlocks of the productive model that have emerged long before the crisis, the memorandum as a regime has taken the characteristics of a neoliberal engineering for the reform of society. And as long as these connections are maintained in Europe, the detachedness of these policies will be extremely difficult. Ladies and gentlemen, we respect the agreements, which I have explained how they were imposed on us. The Left thus serves the national interest. We must, however, be careful not to break the link and balance between public and public interest, which SYRIZA must represent, because otherwise it will be cancelled as a political area. That is why we are very disturbingly following a philology that is being developed by centers and centers outside SYRIZA, which is intended to press to establish this monumental engineering within the lines of our party, in the name of the supposedly necessary ripeness of SYRIZA. This would, however, be tantamount to early ageing. We are told by some, setting the burdens, as they call them, of SYRIZA, that a full match must be imposed between the policies applied by the government and the ideological and political character of the SYRIZA party. To make SYRIZA an excellence to so-called reforms, privatisation and investment without social and environmental conditions. To become SYRIZA, we're told, that political force which, instead of fighting strife in all its forms, will attempt to shape its own new entanglement in entrepreneurial life and media. Thank you! We're not concerned with these scenarios. We're not getting it. Those from the establishment who plan this abstraction mutation of SYRIZA will be disappointed. Reconstructing the country and the left, with unfavourable connections at European level, is a difficult matter that we have decided and attempted from the position of the ruling party as the leading force of the democratic left space. We are determined to do everything possible within the democratic framework, to take advantage of every crack and every possibility in a European and international context, so that we return to the game and do not allow those political forces, such as the New Democracy, who intend to bring so much more austerity - as they say - to regain fear and terror of redundancies, to reload on the back of society the burdens of complexity, corruption, nepotism, anxiety and customer relations. In the forty years that led the country to the destruction to be sure, gentlemen of the New Democracy and of the PASOK, that you will not succeed in offsetting them as easily as with the two and a half years of our own rule, whatever monstrous lies you may make, as much slander as if you were launching, as if above the arsonist's mushrooms, you attempt to wear the firefighter's uniform. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, a little tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u502	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u503	Thank you. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, in the countermeasures, in particular for 2020 and 2021, there are - and rightly so - interventions that will halt the creation of overcrowds and land the primary result of these years from 5% to about 4%. Such interventions, if they had been made in 2016, would have already had GDP rises last year, not a mammoth surplus of EUR 6.5 billion. It is necessary to take measures to halt the excessive surplus in 2017, to revive the economy and to satisfy pressured social needs, in order to address the major national and social objective to address unemployment earlier. Of course, there is the outstanding social dividend from the 2016 surplus, beyond the 617 million paid to the pensioners in December. Whether the difficult measures that we are voting on today are going to be the last ones if they prove to be the exact discharge for the exit from the memoranda and the committee, or if they are to be the same as if they were to be the redeeming of a permanent residence card in the austerity regime, since surpluses of 3.5% have been imposed for several years, depends on many factors. It is an uncertain outcome and we are obviously striving to prevail the positive perspective, the end of the shameful committee, the recovery of degrees of freedom and the renegotiation - I stress - of the tough measures of this agreement on better terms. As far as countermeasures, which were first agreed, are undoubtedly positive, and we hope that they will be able to be activated as a whole, despite the obstacles that I fear the IMF will put in place, taking advantage of the power given to it by Article 15. They are, however, based on a redistribution between the poor and the poorest, and it is not certain that it is enough to cure the pain that the weakest social strata will continue to suffer. Finally, I should like to refer to the debt issue. We have to keep it clean. Without debt regulation, the exit from the memorandum is extremely questionable. Of course, despite the fact that we are not voting on a cancellation clause today, it must be clear to the National Representation that without a positive development in the issue of debt which may cause the IMF to withdraw, the political commitment is in place that the measures we are now voting on will not be implemented, at least not by this government. If possible, let us make a similar statement to the opposition. Let Mr. Mitsotakis say the same. At this point it should be clarified what the government is seeking on the debt issue. A better setting of interest rates? Replacement of IMF loans by the ESM and possibly prolongation of repayment time? This is necessary, but not sufficient measures to get out of the crisis. The goals for debt haircuts, growth clauses and grace period are on the negotiating table? That has to be answered. Ladies and gentlemen, in the difficult conditions that still exist, the left-wing government's persistence in power continues to be a crucial precondition for the country's exit from the memoranda and the committee. This does not change as much as the reservations and reasonable criticisms made to the government by the world of work and many progressive citizens. We all have to think about another parameter. In Europe, which is in a circle of elections, there will be developments with uncertain endings and possibilities. SYRIZA remains a force ready to exploit the cracks at all times in the fortress of endless austerity that rocks the European structure, strengthening destabilising tendencies and extreme right. On the contrary, New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis personally are ideologically and politically committed to defending the wall of austerity and social deregulation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u504	If you agree to the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u505	Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we are voting on new tough measures with positive countermeasures as a precondition for debt relief. Our vote is a vote of confidence in the Left Government, not as the left, but as the historic force that with a structured plan can represent hope for a better world, for a better Greece. We don't give up, we don't give up. We're on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u506	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Constantine Barriots from the Democratic Alliance has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u507	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today someone remembered a photo that slowly flooded the Internet and social media. It shows above the Unknown Soldier half of today's Government Ministerial Council behind a banner that reads: “Go away. You are dangerous to the country." Date of birth: (a) November 2012. And the comment following this memorial photograph is bitter enough. He says: "They who said they would change the world became the worst version of it since today they manifest themselves in the champions of the memoranda." Some of them at least. It is true that the Left Government is still constantly diving in the past and is trying to fish for ideological standards and ideologies that are really old. They also tolerated the fall of the Wall and the process of change of the century. And there is still one picture today to which I wish to refer. I think that it is conceivable and shows the whole contradiction and all the problem that this government actually has. It's a sketch of Arca. It shows a type of disguised "elassite" to move a red flag that reads majesticly: "Yes to everything". Because that is actually the government we have today. It is a government that likes to refer to a left word and a seventy-year-old policy, outdated by things, which is actually being crushed today by reality. So, Mr. Karayannides today, in a very characteristic way, left the bubbles outside the Chamber and his two-handed "elassite" and entered clothed decently with jacket and shirt and told us that it was not possible. We were told that the Maastricht Treaty was binding on the Government. In fact, you did not know, Mr Karayannides, this in 2014, 2011, 2012, that we were talking about revolution, twists, etc.Huh? Did you not know that the coalition of the time voted for the Maastricht Treaty and does it actually bind our country together with many other alliances? We have now learned that the alliances and the framework of the alliances binds the country in many ways and not just with him? To date, the central account of the government, in which it is true that the opposition and many times we are all trapped, has been an ethno-socialist account that presents the crisis as an unscrupulous political energy against the country and proposes a solution to confrontation, war. It was much more intense, of course, with the german germans, these excellent gatherings on the debt debt, etc. Really, where is he? Where are they lost? In general, however, structural problems are details in this account. Reforms in justice, administration, tax are details that do not need. Besides, we appoint our friends who, because they are our friends and left-wings, will by definition solve problems in the best possible way. There's no need for any more talk. The so-called conflict with the imaginary enemy is predominant. When are foreign interests, when is the local establishment, when are all against the country. Blind dilemmas in a country that is sinking, and the best proof that dilemmas are curbs, are the achievements of the famous negotiation since it began. I would remind you of the capital controls - the achievement of the negotiation, the third memorandum - of the sale of the public property to the supranational bank, rather than the control of the revenues from the sovereign Greek government and good morning, welcome a fourth memorandum today. Negotiation on this, in fact, begins in December to end very quickly with 3.6 billion m and ends with 4.9 billion in May. It's a huge success! So the recession is the result of negotiation and poverty. And it's your poverty, it's your recession. It's not the result of old politicians. It's a new recession and new poverty over the past possibly. New ones, however, because the fourth memorandum draws these famous 4.9 billion as a priority and almost exclusively from the poorest. Incomes of EUR 450 per month are affected for the first time and pensions of EUR 800 and EUR 700 are affected. It's never happened before with that tension. Anti-constitutional, says the Court of Auditors. It's okay. The Scientific Service of the Parliament, too, says so. In fact, we legislate aheadly, from 2019 to 2021, because anyway we all know and understand that this government has a horizon by the end of 2018. The insurance, measures, everything has a horizon until 2018. Push the problems for the next one and God has it. But the government is admittedly inventive, ladies and gentlemen. Discover a'money there'. It says that 7.6 billion will be saved by the government to do practical benefits. The direct question is that 7.6 billion minus 4.9 billion, it makes us 2.7 billion. What is the point of hatred and smuggling for a six-month period with the foreigners - the bad strangers we said before - to take measures and then countermeasures? Only 2.7 billion raises, only benefits. Why should we take measures? Obviously, things are a little more complicated than they seem, otherwise it would probably have been that way. The government, on the other hand, considers that progressive policy - and we must say that - is the benefits. Not that there is no need to strengthen the poor and certain specific categories. It's another thing. But countermeasures are cynical impulse. It's like I'm closing my eyes that I'm gonna give you money. That's what this is about. It is also undevelopmental, because the truth is that in the country's state of affairs, many other things are needed along with the strengthening of family and poverty. In fact, it is a philanthropy against voters, it is a vote, because progressive policy today, where the country is, it is the creation and strengthening of jobs, it is the support of entrepreneurship, it is the development of the real economy and through it, through the redistribution of the wealth that will be produced, the support of the family and the poor. What we are doing now is redistribution of misery: I take from the poor to give the poor. It's a dead end. Measures of EUR 4,9 billion and up to 5% of the surpluses needed for these supposedly countermeasures are just a disaster and a vicious cycle in an economy that cannot be developed at all at present and is not expected to grow by more than 2% - 2.2% over the next few years. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need a minute, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we will vote against both measures and countermeasures. We will vote against the measures because, as I said before, they are the result of the SYRIZA - ANEL policy. They are unbearable, robbery for the poorest part of society, unfair and undevelopmental. It is a result of the longer-term government's policy within the memoranda. You are the government that governs most of the time than anyone else. There's no time excuses. You're not young at all. On the other hand, the countermeasures will be against them not only because they are impossible, not only because they are in fact a new programme of Thessaloniki, namely promises of SYRIZA - ANEL with the value they have - and we know very well what the promises of SYRIZA - ANEL - are worth, but above all because it is, in fact, the legalisation of the commitment that from now on, a series of social policies decides and authorizes the International Monetary Fund to the government of the country. For example, we have heard Mr Lurado protest once again in this Chamber - and this time against the 'Government of his Heart' - about the wonderfully unprescribed drugs that are a sirial in the crisis. But at the same time we hear the society that got tired of paying all medicines as unprescribed in her pocket. So the necessary reform, in my opinion, should already have started to introduce income criteria for medicinal products. This not only does not start, not just does it go to the bells, but it will happen if the International Monetary Fund allows it and when the International Monetary Fund permits it. Definitely not in 2018, certainly not in 2019. I would like to make one final comment - and I shall end with that, Mr President - on VAT on agricultural supplies. There is enough mobility and pressure - supposedly - by SYRIZA to vote for it. I think that these should be voted on only by those who took the VAT from 13% and took him to 24%, when all the others begged in this Chamber not to be included in the third memorandum, like the ones who tripled the farmers' contributions. They only have to back off, because mistakes must be paid and those who did them must be seen. There are a number of issues that we could discuss and perhaps agree to in order to be constructive. Unfortunately, these are shattered in this fourth memorandum, and we will vote against it as necessary, because no debate has been made and no proposal has been tabled. I am talking about the abolition of the VI resolution or the new method of supplying hospitals, which, in my opinion, is problematic, but could be improved, I am talking about the liberalisation of transport, which has been so slaughtered in the past and which is going through today without a comment. Ladies and gentlemen, the country - to close, because I abused time - is not going anywhere from a memorandum to a memorandum. From Fourth to Fifth Memorandum, we have nothing to gain. It needs consultation, national renegotiation of many things from both previous memoranda and the latter. We need a national framework for investment that exceeds the life of governments. It requires a stable tax system that goes beyond the life of the governments. Politics is needed to activate productive forces that exceed the life of governments. I mean, there's no need for another government. The government doesn't have to change. We need to change attitudes. We need a new example. He needs national self-consciousness. It takes real, realistic policies and not conspiracy and mysteries.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u508	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u509	Mr President, I would like, please, to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u510	Mr. Karayannides, there's no personal matter. But until we agree whether there is or not, it'll be one minute, so you can talk. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u511	I don't care about criticism. I do not attach any importance to what Mr Barriots said, but even as a figure of speech, 'I left the sketchies and entered decently' is offensive, no matter what we do. Because Mr. Barriots is not a clothing police, I'm asking him to take back at least this insult because it's insulting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u512	If we're going to ruin the image we've had so far, then I'll take it back.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u513	Good. After getting the insult...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u514	All right, Mr. Colleague, that was a charm. He's getting it back.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u515	No, no, it's not charming, because I can tell you about Mr Barriot's appearance something charming. You know very well how this works. I can say anything about any charming person. It's not a charm. I don't know if Mr. Barriots and I are willingly dressed...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u516	In assessing the Bureau, it is a compliment, Mr President. What can we do now? Can we have a conversation about this?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u517	To have a debate, Mr President, when someone offends someone.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u518	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u519	Mr. Comrade, what do you want now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u520	Because the time is last and because the last thing I wanted to do was to insult Mr Karayannides, especially about clothing, which is the least, I take it back, apologizing. For God's sake!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u521	It's self-evident.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u522	That's clear. Mr Socrates Vardakis from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u523	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have really felt uncomfortable these two - three days listening and seeing them parade by this 'Robin Hood' step, supporters of weak, supporters of the poor, protectors of the unemployed, pensioners, trade union supporters, security bodies, ports. There was no social class left complaining. I felt really bad because at some point I had the idea that I was a Member of Parliament for twenty years and SYRIZA ruled for twenty years and brought my country to this mess! Ladies and gentlemen, for some, rent subsidies, which will benefit hundreds of thousands of households, zero or reduced contributions to pharmaceutical expenditure - a measure of 79% of the population as a whole - to increase free access to nurseries, to extend the school meal programme, to increase and extend child benefit, to create jobs to combat unemployment. As much as you're trying to reduce the importance of these support measures, you won't make it. In fact, there is provision for the multi-annual intervention and pension expenditure. There is also a problem with the reduction of tax. However, the above countermeasures are foreseen and once they are voted on, we are entering the final straightforward completion of the second assessment, which will play a decisive role in the Greek debt debates. Because we are following the programme in order to complete the evaluation, while at the same time running the debates on debt relief, without forgetting our social sign. We are not asking for sustainability certificates. We will achieve the sustainability of the debt. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and PASOK, it would be advisable not to forget the attack you carried out on employment rights in the four-year period of your governance, because the result of your political choices was the complete deregulation of labour relations in Greece, while your neoliberal rhetoric was observed that it was supposedly a reduction in wage costs that would help restore the competitiveness of the Greek economy. No competitiveness prospects have created no jobs. Even the IMF had described it as the wrong strategy. But you still do, even today, embrace the same dangerous policies, creating the internal troika. Your interventions have only led to a deep recession, a dramatic increase in unemployment, poverty and social inequalities. For your day, a terrible, truly, framework has been established that governs the labour market and creates conditions that are far from perfect. So don't give up on us, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, because the government has fought and will continue to fight for social rights and not just. You have targeted collective agreements, thresholds for labour protection, effectively suspending the framework of collective bargaining and the functioning of collective agreements. Ladies and gentlemen, now see who is taking us down and who is pulling our fingers, who speak and spoke yesterday about bloody measures and traitors. Who? The true traitors, who were not only parliamentarians, have signed them as Ministers and State Secretarys. Instead of asking for an apology, instead of examples of their criminal mistakes, instead of helping to reverse, reverse, to take back the unfair policies they have adopted, they have condemned every concept of law. And I come to the elastic forms of employment. Those who actually sent thousands of businesses, one and a half million workers to unemployment, dismantled collective agreements, and dismantled the control mechanisms deliberately to avade employers. And black work, uninsured work at 30% with obvious survival problems for the insurance funds. Those who looted in this way and in other ways, as you all remember, the insurance funds. Those who cut 40% to 45% of wages and pensions are now incurring us for horizontal cuts. They speak of the ones who sent a generation of young immigrants, the ones who led our people to the trash cans to look for food. I listened yesterday to Mrs Bakoyannis, who told us that in 2010, in 2011, in 2012, we were in banners and pervading our opposition. Together we were with Mrs Bakoyannis, because at that time Mrs Bakoyannis from the Democratic Alliance was calling Samaras, calling the government of New Democracy, swearing the MPs of the New Democracy. And she in a speech from this here on the Step in 2010 and in 2012 she said that waste cans were pierced, as people put their hands in to find a scorching to eat. And yesterday he was insulting us! Together we fought Mrs. Bakoyannis back then. Now, of course, it belongs elsewhere. They speak of those who sealed the Workshop, the OEC by disappearing billions of euros that were the money of the Greek people. Those who fired teachers, thousands of workers, school guards, city policemen, cleaners. The ones who impoverished our farmers. One development tool had the farmers, the rural bank, and they sold it. They have loaded the farmers with millions of euros of debts and turtles since 2004, which we will resolve today - unless some people solve it with timely questions - which, together with the reduction of VAT to 13% and the supply of agricultural supplies, gives a great breath to farmers. Those who today have the courage to talk about collective agreements have put in our lives the rented workers, the contractors of interlocutory, who instead of a lentil plate, even exploited the workforce until yesterday. The ones who, when you turn their parties' pockets backwards, will fall out of those pockets of debt one quarter. Are you really going to pay this debt? Apologise to the Greek people: Will you pay?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u524	You apologize for the memorial!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u525	Give me your salary. We give 40% so that SYRIZA doesn't have any debts. What do you give? Four hundred million you owe the two parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u526	Say anything about the Memorandum!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u527	Apologise to the Greek people. Will you pay them sometime? The Greek people will not pay this money. Really, you're sad. You're victims and you're pretending to be victims. But the Greek people don't trust you, because you betrayed him. What do we do today? We are looking at this situation by reintroducing the basic principles of collective bargaining, the principle of more favourable regulation, the principle of expansion. I hear from yesterday about the retreat, that SYRIZA establishes the right to retreat, the lock out. Let's be clear. Listen to me. The retreat doesn't change. And there will be provision for the rapid fulfilment of the workers' requirements if the employer becomes overdue to the acceptance of the job and the payment of the wage in the event of a strike. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have fought a great deal for work, with an ally of the principles of the European social model, which are the soul of the European Union and are reflected in the Charters of Fundamental Social Rights, which are valid in Europe and in which the dominant position holds the right to collective bargaining. And because some people are cut off the day before yesterday, when it comes to team redundancies, that's what they're left with! Until yesterday, until yesterday, he was in favor of team redundancies.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u528	Team dismissals? Now they're voting!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u529	And in this we'll find a solution. Be sure. And not now, right now. Tomorrow, tomorrow. And I'll give you some advice. Mr. Brutsis, do you remember when you voted and introduced the law on uninsured persons and the medical treatment of uninsured persons? Do you remember? Mr. Mitsotakis said that you had passed a law on the complete free medical care of uninsured people. Do You Remember?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u530	You're messing with it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u531	Two Voridis ministerial decisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u532	Am I mistaken?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u533	Mr. Comrade, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u534	I'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u535	You're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u536	Because you're a liar and you're lying, I'll tell you this. When you enacted this law, as Mr Mitsotakis said, you break your clothes here - because this is an achievement and a large section of the SYRIZA government - two and a half million uninsured people today have medical care and it was in the so-called 'parallel program', I will submit to the Minutes of the House....
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u537	All right, Mr. Comrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u538	One second, Mr President. I repeat that I will testify at assurances from uninsured people who paid the hospitals, even until 2013 and 2014. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Vardakis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I will give you some advice, although I am a new Member: Be careful a little, because the deprivation syndrome, which holds you, is not dangerous for your parties - something that does not concern us - but is dangerous for the country, because the many years you have been on the benches...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u539	Mr. Comrade, you're done. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u540	...of the counterpopulation, you've saved enough of us! We don't want any more prostates and free guys.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u541	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, we have agreed that we will finish the sitting at 1.00 p.m. There are seven colleagues here. With strict compliance with time, let's go 1.10.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u542	I want a minute too, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u543	There's no way of diversion from time, Mr. Brutsi. I understand everyone has talked to you so far. But that's how we go at 2:00 and it's not possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u544	All SYRIZA MPs spoke ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u545	How long did Mr. Publics speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u546	What happens now? Are we going to talk about how long each other talked? Mr Panayotopoulos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u547	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I can see here that the arguments of the members of the government by the majority of the government are exhausted in a few words in the 'look who speaks', of course, sacred indignation. I will say two - three words about the bill, which you will vote on tomorrow, the memorandum. They say, then, that pessimistic is a well-informed optimist. Today, a valid foreign banking house expressed serious reservations about the country's rapid exit to markets. And they are not members of the PASOK governments - a new Republic of the past. I'm sure it isn't. Yesterday, forty-seven bodies voiced their absolute pessimism about the fourth memorandum, which the government majority is preparing to vote on, and indeed, without any special suspensions, as we can see from the fact that top governmentists recently claimed that the pre-legislation of measures - which will apply after the end of the current programme, namely after 2018 - are unconstitutional and foreign to the European acquis. You were talking about it. You said, "You douche." It's probably not the first time you've said it's not the last time you've said it. "Neither a new euro" you said, while bringing 4.9 billion new measures. All those who represent and express the country's productive backbone are therefore uninformed - I am asking! - and they're talking about an abortion bill? Are these all uninformed and talk about dissolving the country's productive fabric and about provisions that "find" in uniforms and about arrangements that release team redundancies and articles that force free professionals to close their offices - already, you know, thousands have done so - by increasing insurance contributions to Katrugalo insurers, which would forever shield the insurance company and ten months after it collapsed? Are all of them uninformed and talking about businesses carrying their tax seat abroad to survive? Are all these uninformed people talking about all this? Or are they all with New Democracy and PASOK? Incidentally, as we say about business leaving forty years now or rather twenty-five years now, since the communist regime in Bulgaria was dismantled and the conditions for economic growth were in place on the basis of the private economy of that country, of course, Greek businesses have gone there to expand and create, invest and, of course, add to domestic GDP. Today they go there or rather carry their tax office there, not by choice, but by need, to escape overtaxation and survive. And it is not just big business today. The natural faces do it too. Free professionals, even farmers, organized on a more entrepreneurial basis go to Bulgaria to escape. And you're dealing with this fact rather ironically. A moment ago, I heard a number of colleagues catching up with you and generally you seem rather satisfied. You say that the bill is the end of austerity, and it even brings much more austerity and impoverishes all society indiscriminately, with particular care for the favourite objective, as I have said, of the free professionals, whom you have introduced as a tax, and now you are imposing a levy on the levy. Mostly, however, this bill makes the poorer. And you know, not only do you of the government majority have the sole concern for the poor of this country. It makes the poor, poorer, because it has cut social benefits since now, such as the heating allowance and the CSCE, since 2017. It makes poorer people, because by reducing duty, it taxs one million and two thousand low income people, who will pay tax for the first time. But I didn't hear you say anything about this kind of thing the first time. It also makes the poor, poorer, because it has been cutting pensions since 2019. Let me say, since we are talking about pension cuts, that no pensioner - I am talking about the recipients of the letter from Katrugalou, as you can see - will understand your social sensitivity when you take off from it two pensions, one from the cut-off and one from the tax reduction, which will make him pay tax and thus lose income, as we said yesterday, because you will allow him to see his grandchildren at school meals and not piles, Mr Karayannides. The new countermeasure story, as I spoke about meals, is on condition. The first prerequisite is to maintain high primary surpluses for years, i.e. to continue overtaxation for years and to continue the public's internal posture for years. The second is the adoption by the International Monetary Fund, Article 15 of this bill. If, however, I say again, you are so much cut off for vulnerable social groups, please legislate against them now, as the New Democracy suggests by means of the amendment that has been tabled today. And you know what? The social sensitivity is also measured by some of the details that have their own special meaning. I see that in the list of prerequisites you negotiated and agreed at the beginning of May - it was first published in the German media and inevitably after we learned it - the prerequisite under number 137 in this list, chapter justice, that is, first in a series of importance for you - if it is not, then you obviously did not negotiate it, but obviously it is first in order of importance - of all the reforms that need to be carried out in justice is the settlement of electronic auctions. This is number one priority on the list, and then the others come to justice. That's what he says. And if the first residence is protected until the end of 2017, as the Minister of Justice rightly said yesterday - as was protected, I would remind you, before the provision for the suspension of auctions, until the end of 2014, on governments of a New Democracy - PASOK, as the competent Minister of Justice said yesterday - then in 2018 comes and together thousands of liberated and now arranged by you electronic auctions, because you have arranged this field, as a matter of priority, in the reforms of justice. And since I spoke to the Minister of Justice, who referred this afternoon to me by name and asked me to place myself specifically on Article 65, that is to say, in this connection, not entirely - bank managers and civil servants, who will carry out restructuring, i.e. red loan trimmings, I rush to respond. I wasn't in the Chamber, but I watched and answered now. We shall of course vote against, as we vote against the entire memorandum, with the exception of the article on reducing Members' tax privileges. Yesterday I said that I do not understand why this specific immunity should be introduced - under conditions, but immunity - for a category of public bankers and officials. I don't understand. Does the Minister and the Government not have confidence in the judicial officers to do their job, without fear, but without passion and fear of a wave of persecution? I don't understand that. I said that any employee of all of them doing his job well, according to the law, has nothing to fear. Let me say the other one. If, until yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, the granting of the loans was a field in which overlapping transactions or behaviour could be developed, I predict that tomorrow the scope of the loan haircut - again economic object, possibly millions of euros - will again be an appropriate field of potentially overlapping transactions. I therefore do not understand why this specific immunity of a particular category of citizens who do not, on the basis of the provision you are voting on by 65, have the usual procedural effects of the law. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President, I will not be late. Ladies and gentlemen, for listing. The second evaluation was delayed a year. This delay brought great additional costs and actually resulted in the fourth Memorandum for the period 2017-2021. You know that this was not the work of those who ruled forty years in the country. It's the work of those who are now ruling, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that is, yours. You don't know, you can't and you probably don't want - if I'm judging by the way you're dealing with the investment of the Greek, where forest areas were discovered there near the aisle - to use the tools to get out of the crisis, which are no other than incentives, to mobilize entrepreneurship and the private economy, with rules, not inconsistently, Mr. Phile. But there's the key. Not, therefore, in measures of universal poverty in society by access to poverty benefits as some national pursuit. Not in countermeasures - fraud, if the IMF wants it, and since you continue to bear burdens on them, of which you are depriving them of the right to advance from their work. I am voting against both hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u548	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, at 1.00 p.m. I will close the sitting. Unfortunately, some colleagues who are waiting to speak will not speak, because despite the appeals, the seven-minute period is nine minutes. We can't go like this. I'm telling you. Mr. Tasso, I'm saying this for you. Excuse me, but you won't have time to talk. I'm sorry, but I can't agree. Mr Circas has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u549	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, for us, from the first day until today, exiting the crisis with society upright was an endless objective and at no time have we concealed the difficulties. We have neither celebrated nor presented'success story'. We have stood honestly against the Greek people at all critical times and have reached an agreement with countermeasures, with a zero budgetary balance, which will lead us to the new era. The morally and politically bankrupt system, which the Greek people themselves set aside, refuses to accept the new reality. He plays his last card with constant attacks on the government by building false news, stumbling any initiative for micropolitical reasons and impressions, but also to deviate - so he thinks - above him the responsibility of destroying the country. It is a real impression that we are being swamped by the fingers and criticised by those who have launched the country's debt, expelled unemployment and actively participated in the loss of 25% of the country's GDP. Despite difficulties, we prove that the country can stand on its feet - it begins to stand on its feet - and hopes for a better future. You, gentlemen, continue to be exposed, because today we have an agreement in front of us where, together with the negative measures that are being legislated, we also have positive measures which can alleviate the negative effects as much as possible. It cannot be disputed that the negotiations were tough and dubious in order to enable the government to reach this agreement with a budget mix, which we would obviously not have chosen to implement if we were not under comitology. And instead of the absurd surpluses agreed by the previous government of Samara - Venizelos from 2014 to 2031, which predicted primary surpluses of up to 4.1%, a target of 3.5% of GDP is set, with the medium-term programme, by 2021. It was necessary, however, to close the evaluation and for what reasons? How necessary was that? Although he's answered, let's say it again. This agreement is necessary for the exit from the Memorandum of Understanding for Debt Regulatory. So the second assessment is now being finalised - although it also includes conditions that we would like to avoid - and we have led to a balanced compromise that was necessary. You refuse, even today, not only to vote on the measures, but also on the positive countermeasures. It would be surprising, of course, if you could even support these benefits for society countermeasures, since it is still fresh to deny your refusal to the one-off allowance for the tenth pension. And it is the only agreement, for seven years, which provides not only for measures but also positive countermeasures, that the final financial footprint will be zero, when you promised to vote for so many other measures and when you were in power, you voted for a total of EUR 65 billion. You know very well that the memorandum is no other than the political preconditions and commitments, which one side undertakes when signing a loan contract. And here we do not have a new loan contract, so we do not have a Memorandum. On the contrary, extreme neoliberal and socially dangerous is the New Democracy's programme which promises redundancies, deregulation of labour relations and zero care for public education and public health. That is why you will be judged at the end of the four-year period. Today, however, we are legislating to reduce the tax rate from 22% to 20% for incomes of up to EUR 20,000, in order to alleviate the low and middle incomes of employees and pensioners. We are abolishing the special solidarity levy for incomes of up to EUR 30 000, instead of EUR 12 000, which has been in force until now, and the ENPI is being reduced by 30%. We are legislating to reduce the tax rate of profits of legal persons from 29% to 26% from 1-12019 to 26% in order to strengthen business activity. We are also making our commitment to abolishing Members' tax deductions, with a full awareness of the difficulties facing a large proportion of our fellow citizens. The Public Investment Programme will finance infrastructure projects in the agricultural sector, energy saving and upgrading of small and medium-sized enterprises and industry. However, we are also reducing VAT from 24% to 13% for agricultural products, but also for live animals, a request for the establishment of the livestock world. For you all these are a memorandum, as is the housing allowance, which benefits six hundred thousand households, the increase and extension of free access to nurseries, which is estimated to reach a total of forty-five thousand people by 2020, and the extension of the school meal programme that covers almost 50% of students. In view of the panic of power that goes away, however, you go beyond the fact that these measures, which you characterize and anti-developmental, will face a series of pathogens, inequalities and injustices caused by your own neoliberal policies. And you're doing this to prove what? All you can prove is that your narratives about the deadlock of negotiations and elections collapsed once again and you see nothing in your sights but the chairs of power. So will you vote against zero participation in the pharmaceutical expenditure for people with a monthly individual income of up to EUR 700? This measure benefits nearly 60% of all citizens. However, on the subject of work, we have also managed to restructure the institutional framework of labour relations, those which you have completely rejected, and to restore collective agreements and basic principles, the principle of better regulation and the principle of expansion with the completion of the current programme. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, if you'll excuse me, I need one more minute. The New Democracy, and overall the Opposition, is at risk of being left aside if it insists on catastrophe. The citizens are ready to judge, when the time comes, projects, results and evaluate proposals and programmes. You behave, as if the country were bankrupt by SYRIZA, as if the International Monetary Fund and the Memorandums were brought by Tsipras. And the more you see the scenario not coming out, the more we see angering and irritating those who support you in the media. But the dynamics of things cannot be halted. Now, it's time for work to get rid of the place. Ladies and gentlemen, we have fought, we have negotiated hard. Some battles we lost. Some battles we won. But we are at a key point today. And if we succeed today, Greece can come out of this vicious circle of monuments and gradually return to normality. It is time for those who put the nipple in the neck of the Greek people, swelling the debt, to understand that we will lighten it whether they want it or not. And I'm sure this passage into the new era, no memoirs...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u550	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u551	I shall end in ten seconds, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u552	But finish it! They're your colleagues underneath. Don't you see them? You don't care?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u553	So this passage in the new era cannot have the sealing of the political and practical practices of the parties that have ruled the country for forty years and have destroyed it. He'll have SYRIZA's seal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u554	Mr Xydakis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u555	Thank you, Mr President. It has been a long time since the sad episode with Cassidy of the Golden Dawn, but I would like to make it clear a few things, because many things have been said in those hours, many things have been written and, in the end, even the party of Officerial Response has made a conspiracy interpretation, which we need to clarify. In particular, the New Democracy said that the Kassian episode serves SYRIZA. In other words, Nikos Dendias worked with SYRIZA to get away from the medium term and to go to the Fortress's incidents and interventions. But let's see if that thing is true. It's almost no big deal. It matters who said these first minutes after the episode to see who's talking. Therefore, some media parrots, known as parrots who always "celad" when talking about captains on speedboats, spoke. They spoke the "darling" of the dictators Papadopoulos and Patakou. The right-wing roommates, climbed by the underground dumpsters in political mainstream with the blessings of intertwining, spoke. The 'poor' of political amoralism and destabilization spoke. Who talked about collaboration of Golden Dawn and SYRIZA? They also spoke some socialists once, who were politically intact about the phenomenon of the original Golden Dawn activists. Yeah, the activists, who are now on trial for crimes. They spoke and interpreted this episode like this. And they are the same ones who are talking these days about a fourth memorandum with exactly the same credibility. They speak of those who delivered the country to the committee from 2010 to today. They speak of those who stripped the country's productive tissue and made the state a customer store. They speak of those who set up the credit over-expansion of the 1990s and were praised for the bubble of the Stock Exchange, those who matched the strong Greece with the powerful complication. They're talking. Those who overcrowded the country and dynamised the insurance system, those who said that pensioners are unfortunately living a long time and that anyone who can survive will survive. They're between us. They have served as Ministers for Labour, Health, Insurance in the immediate years of pain and comitology. Still, these retreatists, demagogers, interlocutors, talking about wearing the modernist's probe. And on this same path of lies, resentment and, above all, of deception, the Chief of Officerial Response is also moving throughout the period in the leadership of the New Democracy, Kyriakos Mitsotakis. He is misled and towed by extreme right-wing tractors either because he does not have his own agenda, or because he just awkwardly camouflages his own deeply oligarchy neoliberal agenda. But let us put aside for the moment who speaks and deals with saving his chair and let us see the really difficult and painful reality. The country has been under ruthless custody since 2010. The Greek debt swap for the European banks and to the detriment of the Greek state and European states was one aspect of 2010. The other aspect is the specific application of social engineering, the implementation of a constant punishment on the citizens of Greece and the European Union and the application of a reduction in the social area. That's what we're living for. The Memorandum - from the first to the present - is the main instrument of this peculiar sovereignty, written by lenders. But in our case there's a pen of the domestic elite. Even the third memorandum of SYRIZA was already prepared by these domestic elites, who are now shouting and misleading, because they have already thought that this institution of sovereignty would be their blessing, a body that would perpetuate their own sovereignty and bet on the left parentheses and fear. They were shot, of course, and accumulated pain, despair and destabilization. But now, let's see the up-to-date years we have before us. The way out of the comitology will neither be quick nor uncut. However, the objective will always remain the gradual recovery of self-sufficiency and the end of the committee, as we live in, with painful consequences. The aim must always be to provide a material relief to the social majority, mainly with jobs and a fair welfare state. The aim is to bring up the migratory outflows, the Brain drain and the demographic decline. And these are long-term goals, which require political practices, consistently and lastingly, which require a new general mind, in addition to the division and current power game, beyond cabotinism and the Balkan 'House of Cards'. They are goals that require compositions and shocks of social and political, historical responsibility, self-criticism and free speech. These are the objectives and tasks of the new Left in the difficult years, which we will constantly raise, an effective expression of our society, which is constantly transformed through the pain of the crisis, but also through the longing for equality, justice and democracy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will need ten seconds, Mr President. With this heavy burden of responsibility we see our fellow citizens, without words from now on, only by actions. We are expecting a lot of hard work and hard work for all the Greek democrats and, of course, above all, for those elected and those who are in the government, with constant self-criticism, with intense control, with their ears open to the voices of our fellow citizens and with always vigilant eyes of our soul. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u556	Mr Ioannis Vroutzis from the New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u557	Mr President, I will say what we are living today, what all Greek citizens are experiencing - the workers, the unemployed and the retired - continuing the debate, from where the previous speaker left it. They are experiencing the most populist and demagogic government, which has known the place, the SYRIZA - ANEL government. They are experiencing painful measures and - most of all! - the deception of those who two and a half years ago in Syntagma Square, under the headline and the sign of the "extended" deceived and mocked the Greek people. Then they won the trust, gave the polls hopes, entered the House and left the whole world on the side. And here, today, where we are and what the workers, the unemployed, the farmers, the vulnerable social groups are experiencing. And tomorrow - in other words, today, the fourth, second in turn, the SYRIZA and ANEL memorandum, will be passed, a memorandum of impotence, but also of bulimia for power. This is the memorandum that the SYRIZA Members will vote on tomorrow with two hands, a memorandum of inappropriateness, a memorandum that incorporates unambiguous lies and fraud, a memorandum that - as I will say below - contains elements of national humiliation and squeeze, a memorandum that in the end, in conclusion, has "selling my conscience". In the debate that has taken place all this time, these hours on the legislative initiative of the SYRIZA with the fourth memorandum, we have not heard - and this is recorded - that the previous arguments have been voted on in the third memorandum, so we have to vote again. Why? Because the third memorandum is quite different. So the arguments have been cleared up. All measures - fiscal, insurance, at the level of contributions for the free traders - are all new. This is the new element in this process of dialogue in the House. However, there was something new, which was impressive, by the current former Minister, Mr. Nikos Philis, that he is discussing within SYRIZA the construction of a new interlocutor and, in his honor, said so from the Step of Parliament that he disagreed. So there are the elements of this new party, which today is in the government and which highlights the presumption of political morality. In any case, the Greek people must learn a few things clearly: This memorandum was inappropriate, Secretary of the Ministry of Labour. It was inappropriate because our national economy, ladies and gentlemen, in 2015 and 2016 had specific specifications. Running at 2.5 and 3.7%. Unemployment, for the end of 2016, was at 19.5%, as planned. In Hardouvelis mail there were 310 million for the insurance, a total of 900 million. That was the course of the economy. You have brought the financial derailment, you have blown it all up and, here, the results. For the period 2015-2016 and the first quarter of 2017 we have a recession in the Greek economy. We are the only country in Europe, when the other countries, which came out of the memorandum, such as Spain, Portugal, Ireland and Cyprus, are running with growth of more than 1%. This is the picture and effectiveness, but also the inability of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. Two hundred thousand jobs were lost at the same time. Unemployment ended at 23.5% at the end of 2016. And the worst is that we lost 29 billion euros of wealth, as in this bill, the memorandum, it is described that in 2018 - the Ministry of Finance says it - the country's GDP will have reached 188 billion euros, when the same Ministry in 2014 wrote about 2018 that the country's GDP will be at 217 million, 29 billion euros of wealth. Why is it a memorial of poverty and the most painful of all so far? Because in this memorandum the SYRIZA and ANEL Members will vote for the two-and-three pension cut - together with the tax-free - and low pensions. We also handed you the tax-free at EUR 9,500. Let's not forget where you received it from. This means they were taxing the income and wages of EUR 792 in the month. And where are you going with it? EUR 5,680 will tax the salary of EUR 473. And if we look at pension level, the EUR 405. Is this the sensitivity of SYRIZA to the weak and the workers? What about the disastrous insurance contributions? Last year, in 2016, under the "Katrugalou" law, we had exterminating contributions. Everyone protested. And you come now, a year later, and you fade out and you forget the law itself, putting 61% more hat on the already exterminating contributions. This is the first time that it has been done - it has never been done - in the insurance system in our country. Today, ladies and gentlemen, Greece has no insurance law. The ‘Katrugalou’ law has been repealed. It has also abolished itself in the consciousness of the world, but its own provisions have been abolished. The provision on personal differences has been abolished. There's no more. The personal difference promised by Mr Katrugalos - the missing person for two days - that he will increase for the young pensioners is lost and now personal differences are going. The critical, the structural part of insurance contributions, you change it and you recalculate it on another basis, to the mixed ones. Congratulations! There's no more! Greece has no insurance law! That's why the New Democracy will create a new law of insurance, a reward, and we'll face these extermination contributions, which are devastating, and as I said, it's going to be a charismatic shot when they come. And the most appalling thing: While in Article 2, pensions are abolished through personal dispute, you have made sure that the personal difference in the Armed Forces is introduced into Article 155 by trying to follow Mr Kammenos's path. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the New Democracy are opposed to this. We will not accept this reduction in the wages of the Armed Forces and the Trustees. I'm going to the bit of fraud, because it's fraud, when you talk about countermeasures. You entered with “Seshathia”, you entered with a cut in the burdensome debt, then you spoke from the pavement roads and the Syntagma Square on the Thessaloniki Program with the measures of 12 billion. Then, in the third memorandum, you spoke about the 'parallel programme' and now the new invention is countermeasures and instead measures of EUR 14.4 billion are coming instead. This is SYRIZA. That's what he was lying about, and he keeps saying. But the SYRIZA Members will know tomorrow evening that for every countermeasure they will vote at the same time, they will vote for both the cut of two and three pensions, at the same time voting for the loss of one wage, voting for 61% exterior contributions and for every countermeasure that will vote, vote for the release of group redundancies. This is the real picture. Why did I say it was a government's endeavor? Because it also has elements of national humiliation, because Article 15 is unprecedented. This has no precedent for our country's political things. Mr. Minister of Government, hand over national sovereignty! The 3.5% surplus you say and the potential countermeasures enter, provided that IMF. In other words, you are giving the IMF, the European Commission. For what surpluses and for what countermeasures? There is no jurisdiction in the Greek Government. And there is no more force behind what you say about countermeasures if it does not go through Article 15, which we have asked you to withdraw. Such national humiliation has never been made in the political things of our country. And I close with the last one, which I think you should see again. I have heard Mr Pappa, Mrs Ahtsoglu, all the government's ministerial staff say that she does not vote for group redundancies. I must make known to the world, and that is why I am tabling Article 15, Article 16 and Article 17 of your own law, which clearly says, Members of SYRIZA - to know what you will vote on tomorrow - what was your flag, the conscience of SYRIZA in the left-wing struggles for decades, the part of the liberalisation of group redundancies. That's what SYRIZA said for decades. Tomorrow you will vote with both hands for the release of team redundancies. Who would believe it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u558	You're done, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u559	I'm done, Mr. President. But at the end of the day, they all figured it out. This is a great fraud, taking advantage of a difficult time for the Greek people, with demagogy and populism. They took advantage of the difficult times of the Greek people and became government. But everyone now knows and the wrath of the world will be toward you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u560	Mr Vardalis from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u561	Mr President, may I have the floor on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u562	However, there is no staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u563	How does it not exist, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u564	So what's there? In the opinion of Mr Philadelphia, his speech has been misunderstood. That's not personal. Whatever Mr. Brutsi understood. What do we do now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u565	He hasn't said anything yet, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u566	Well, thank you very much. Here, Mr. Philly, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u567	Mr. Brutch said something I didn't say. The exact one - which is in the Minutes - is that the forces of the system are working on a new strand and will find SYRIZA opposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u568	Thank you, too. Here, Mr Vardalis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u569	Ladies and gentlemen, it is challenging how the government serves the new anti-popular agreement. Apart from what is known and predictable, for example, 'the agreement is difficult, but it leads us to the end of the committee', 'it opens the road to debt regulation', the countermeasures and others that have been heard here, for which too much has been said and I do not want to repeat them, I would like to dwell on another claim by the government, which is equally misleading and provocative. What did the government claim? That the anti-grass measures that come with this multi-brand plan don't hurt everyone. Truly, is it not challenging for a pensioner to hear from the mouth of the Minister of Labour and Social Security that interventions only concern pensions, which have a personal difference? To hear baptize pension reductions for interventions? To hear that two-thirds of the pensions will not be changed and that under no circumstances will any adjustment exceed 18%, which is the maximum? Really, Minister, who do you think you're kidding? Do you think the Katraugalu abortion has been forgotten, when you fooled pensioners, reducing pensions for young pensioners up to 33%, then excluding from the trik cuts in personal disputes those who had already received a pension? Did you then claim or not that, not only will personal differences be cut, but that from 2018 onwards there will be increases? Are you now abolishing the personal difference? Yes or no? Not only do you abolish it, but what are you actually doing? A few months ago you cut off the new pensions. Now you're cutting off the old pensions. So all the pensions. The conclusion comes out unintentionally: From your anti-popular attack no one is excluded. And it can be with such terminology, that is to say cuts in doses, that you are overcoming the unconstitutionalism that has become a lot of talk here today. But the outcry of workers and pensioners will not get over it as easily as you think. But are these the last cuts? Well, I'm sure this isn't the end. You tell us that part of the personal difference will remain, since the reduction in pensions, not of the personal difference, will not be more than 18%. Is it small for you to reduce pensions by 18%? Beyond this, it turns out that the reductions with the abortion of Katrugalos were at least 18%. We said then that it was 33% in new pensions. Can anyone today believe that any part of the personal difference will not be the first to be cut with the next proud negotiation? All it's about to be discussed is when it's gonna be cut, when it's gonna happen, that is. Within one year all pensions and new and old pensions have been reduced and, if you add the reductions of the New Democracy and of the PASOK, you will easily remove the reinsurance account. Therefore, the arguments of the ‘not everyone’ type, that ‘two-thirds of the pensions are not affected’ do not take time and are a challenge to the reality of pensioners and workers living. You are consciously deceiving the people, because you believe that by "dividing and fighting" you will incorporate its racing attitudes, you will enjoy popular discontent. But "one of the liar, two of the liar." The proof that no one is going to get away with is also the new "secret" in wages and pensions, the abolition and merger of allowances by military officials and security bodies, despite any changes announced today by the Minister. Will you or will you not - and indeed not - end up - the issue of refunds on the basis of the decisions of the Council of State? Would you like to introduce personal differences in wages here too? Now, however, we know what happened to the corresponding personal difference in pensions. It's just this way that you target where the next cuts are going to be made. Ladies and gentlemen, with the fourth Memorandum and all the other measures taken with the previous three memoranda, the self-employed and the free trade will see the next period of multiplying the seizures of the bank accounts, entering on the agenda the seizures of dwellings and professional shelters through the electronic auctions that you put in front of them. But you will say that these will now be done transparently, as the Minister has told us today. Uh, we will not disagree on this matter. Now, on transparent terms, you'll get their fortune. At the same time, however, they will see their insurance contributions increased, their pensions reduced, the operation of shops on Sundays, implementing the SYRIZA Government a yearly request for large commercial chains and stores. The sure thing is that the self-employed in commerce cannot monitor continued liberalisation. He can't be every day of the week ending hours in his shop in order to be able to respond. When will he rest? When will he see his family? When will he live a normal life? It is more than certain that this measure of liberalisation will result with mathematical accuracy in speeding up the concentration of the market in the hands of a handful of stores and large commercial chains. Besides, that's your target. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. This agreement clearly serves to strengthen capital. What it does is to facilitate business groups to make large investments, to help bring the country to a hub of transporting energy and goods in the wider region. And it is this capital support that breaks down workers, pensioners, self-employed, free professionals, farmers, that is to say all those who produce wealth. As long as this development path is followed, the anti-grassroots measures against the people will not be complete. Instead, they are a prerequisite for the development and maintenance of profits. Now that the people end this barbarism, not forget what they lost and claim it, take the economy in their hands and make it work for their own needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u570	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Mr Cavalellas, from the Centron Association, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u571	Thank you, Mr President. A few hours ago the House, namely the numerical supremacy of co-government, decided essentially as constitutional Articles 1, 2, 15 and 58. I would like to tell you not to be happy at all, because experience has shown more. Remember Mr. Pappa, who wanted to be a supercant. Now, Memorandum 4 - because it is a memorandum - it includes wage and pension cuts. The previous governments, of course, who are now cutting and shouting, have made eleven reductions. I note this because PASOK and New Democracy are shouting and complaining about developments in things. You, of course, of SYRIZA and ANEL, as worthy followers, proceed to new wage cuts. Of course, you are not here anything new, as you claim, because it has moved most of the PASOK and part of the New Democracy and built SYRIZA. SYRIZA was a small party of 4%. As worthy contributors, you are moving towards new wage and pension cuts, small social benefits for the weaker classes of course, such as the allowance for poverty and natural disasters, the continuation allowance, the allowance for unprotected children. Cut 50% off from the heating allowance. You're also cutting off some special people's payrolls fighting crime twenty-four hours a day. You are reducing the tax rate for the second time, which takes at least one and a half wages. You ask people who get 450 euros a month to pay tax. Is that the case? Anyway, we're going down. You are abolishing collective agreements. Accelerate redundancies. You're turning us to the Middle Ages, where there were no rights. This shows some analgesia. The Minister told us yesterday that the government is merciful and gives schoolchildren meals. When is this going to happen? This will be done in 2021, and if and if all the countermeasure conditions are met, that is, it will never happen. It's an announcement in the sphere of imagination. Make the youth, announcing such measures, feel collectively less, feel that it depends on your piles. You, of course, are negotiating and negotiating supposedly hard, but good - badly made a superstition, where we now put all the rest of the national assets for easy expropriation of creditors, without Parliament's approval. Before you arrived today, you and the previous governors, PASOK and New Democracy, extend your hand to borrow, signing memos, should have housed the country. There is an oversized public that serves your voting needs, yours and the past. Now you, the new SYRIZA - ANEL, you're struggling to steal their clientele. There are several things that come to my mind, such as tax evasion, which you have said about oil, tobacco, one another. What about these things? With the lists? I haven't heard anything in a long time. With the parties' funding? EUR millions of parties and the media. There's been a commission to see what's going on. No one was to blame. There are clay stories. There are eighty thousand rich people, who also receive a pension, whom these gentlemen do not need. What's going on? There are also triple retired people and double pensioners and, on the other hand, there is total poverty and some of our fellow citizens are running in the garbage cans early in the morning - morning, before the city's car passes, to take everything that has been left over there. There are promises on promises, a Thessaloniki programme, a parallel programme - that goes as well - and now we have considered a new account, which is the countermeasures. There will be no countermeasures, gentlemen. There won't be any. Be sure of that. You know that very well, but you say so, to “golden the pill.” The countermeasures will be applied when the economy blooms, because there will be at least three years of high surpluses over 3.5%, where 3.5% is the basis and from there we have to go 5.5% - 6%. Is there any chance we can go to 5.5% and 6% so we can give something to the world? However, this also requires the assent of our creditors, the International Monetary Fund. You are asking to vote on the reduction of pensions by 18%. Reduction to everyone, says New Democracy. You say that will be applied to half. And after the coup d'état says, you can sleep in peace, gentlemen, retired people, that he'll go to half. Do you know what he's writing? The fact that pensions are being cut as "Family" to start a debt debate and there is no other budgetary justification. They're cut off, so we can start talking. We will support Article 71 on the taxation of Members and other taxpayers. It is fair and we will only vote for this, so that people do not say that we refuse to do so. [[At this point, the Honourable Member's speech bell is ringing.]] I'll be right on time. However, you must go further, abolish the pensions of a number of Members who are also retired from another fund and as former Members. They're doctors, lawyers, and these people have to decide. They will either be retired as former MPs or as former doctors. In any case, to close, we call for an enlarged government of at least two hundred seats in order to negotiate better with our lenders. We are not asking us to take out of the clothing division, we are not asking for spoil, we are not asking for ministries, chairs. We will support the law and fight, as always, for unfairness. We will support a government that accepts the nine morally-generating points at least and an improved economy. We must show that we are a trustworthy country, so that investors can trust us, because without investment, we will eat our flesh. I would like to say two things, which are essential. You're giving PPC. You need to keep the lignites. Also, as far as plastic money is concerned, companies will be closed down. They must have an irresponsible working account in order to feel safe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u572	Mr Gregory Psarian from the river has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u573	Thank you very much, Mr President. A hundred and fifty MPs are missing from the government from the government coalition. There are only three people here who will have the honour of listening to me and watching me carefully, namely those who should not be absent from the vote to go through this. We are the "German gypsies", the "Cholacoglou", the "Kuislings" - you know these - hangings, in Wuddy and the change. It is now the Government of People's Democracy and the SYRIZANEXEL Injection, which will correct all the bad texts of the whole period since the Migration to date. We've been talking badly for forty years. The MB was one or two years old. It is the time from the republic to this day, with very bad governments, with corruption, strife, etc. We are abolishing - I have said this since last year - the old complexity and corruption and we are setting up our own shop. We use previous clients as well and we arrange our "clients" as well. We sign everything - but everything - the most analgesic, trumpkinous, neoliberal, we make cuts, exterminations, executions. We're signing it all. We're not talking about it. We're in. We're the people for all the jobs. Whatever you want from us, you'll ask for, and we'll vote for them. Why? Because we have to stay, keep fingernails and teeth, build our own client system, appoint our "clients". How did sixty-five thousand people get settled in two and a half years? Those who might have thrown marbles, smashed Great Britain, hooded banks and burned, now can be a chauffeur in parliamentary cars, motorcycles and advisors of government business, i.e. 'business'. This situation is comico-tragic. I don't understand how long we can make fun of this world that we sold him a fairy tale, two fairy tales, five fairy tales, twelve fairy tales. We did pirates, weed exercises, ground exercises with the ribbon, side horse. We did it all. We found Merkel saying 'Go back', and I don't know what else we were talking about or Shoeble, his show, and now we're saying that one is a pistol. And the other one is a great leader. The "Dutch" we empired with, then mocking his back. Now, because 'he's been drank by the Dutch', let's play it a little Macron? I don't know, everything might be seen by our eyes as long as we're here with the spoon. That's the point. Dear friends and companions - old and young - this situation can no longer continue. You've served us the carrots, along with big whip in three packages. One whip is the measures, the other is the countermeasures, which are a fairy tale. There are no countermeasures, because we are not going to catch these targets. Even in 2221, I doubt we'll have succeeded in catching the targets to give some sandwiches to the hungry and now they're not hungry. They used to be hungry, with the wretched "Samaro - Venizelos". The kids didn't have to eat. In the trash cans, we were seeing tails. Suicide? Five hundred - five hundred jumped off the roofs! Now we don't have one. The suicides have been abolished. He hasn't killed himself in two and a half years. In schools they eat smoked salmon, and so on, but where they don't, we'll give them a sandwich. There is the 'Karakas Plan', namely to impoverish the people to have a lasting, lasting revolutionary warming and to be at a revolutionary vigilance. We'll make him poor and give him a pile. No house in the hands of the owner and a pile for the people! That's the plan. I don't know if we're gonna get through this plan, comrades, you few people who listen to me, that is, the three of us. One hundred and fifty may read it or hear me another day. But this whip and the carrot will deny it with passion. We won't vote either whip or carrots. We won't vote for the prerequisites either. I am referring to some old other prerequisites, which we 'we had made gargages' - we had not done and are also our own proposals in them. You should have said that this is a good proposal to go for it two months ago, three months ago. Why did you now put everything in the big bay, in the gross Bay, and the whip and the carrots and the prerequisites? Why? Since we agree with some of them. Why didn't you bring them back when we suggested them, or why didn't you suggest them just before? I am referring, for example, to a reduction in taxes, tax rates or to various such things, which are fair and which may also be developmental. Why did you discover the forests and ancients in the Greek now, after a year and a half that should have started? And when the forests and the ancients are finished, we'll find nothing else, wetlands, and I don't know what else we can find in the Greek. I don't want to remind you of the case of Squirrels. Those who go up to the bulldozers in Halkidiki are now models and go over here. They're avoiding bulldozers now. That fairy tale can't go anymore. You know, it's this proverb that says that: you might make fun of a lot of people for a little time, a few for a lot of time, but you can't be fooling everybody forever. You should know that, I think, very well. Also, because the wise people are listening to us, I would like to say, by addressing the three or the hundred and fifty-three, but to the eleven million wise people of this country, Katapaliadian, who would very much like to be a normal European country, and I do not see it happening in our day, unfortunately - the saying of Mark Twain, a great American thinker, who said that 'it is very easy to deceive, but it is very difficult to convince them that you have been deceived'. I hope that I do not need or must not convince them that they have been deceived, understood by the wise citizens of this country themselves that you have sold them fairy tales and seaweed for silk ribbons.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u574	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Efstathos Panagulis, an independent MEP, has the floor. The last speaker, Mr Stavros Tassos, is followed by the JRC. Here you go, Mr. Panagoulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u575	Mr President, the seriousness with which the government is dealing with the specific programme that it brings seemed that nine hundred forty-one pages were distributed on Saturday afternoon at the lockers and on Monday they were the committees. Let me tell you something, ladies and gentlemen. Since 1977, I have served many periods of MP. Worse Parliament, from the last period we have been in, has never existed. And the government of SYRIZA is responsible. Of course, the President of this House is not in vain responsibility. Dozens of timely questions I have tabled. The ministers don't show up. Other Ministers do not respond in writing either. I was indeed wondering, what measures the government has taken today, i.e. the fourth Memorandum. The rulers called it an implementing law, a new program. Others called it an abortion, monstrous. I regret to say that the fourth Memorandum will be an agreement that will level Greek society, but also the legal order of the country. I do not understand the logic of this new horror, namely how you are committed, gentlemen, to the implementation of the new measures. The Prime Minister commits that if there is no debt relief, the measures will not be implemented. But the Minister of Finance himself came and disproved him. And as if the above inaccuracies were not enough, the draft agreement submitted to the German Parliament and leaked, which expressly stated that the Greek Government is committed that what was agreed will be implemented, even if it is unconstitutional, that is to say, to intervene and abolish our Constitution. The fourth Memorandum will not only cut pensions and put new taxes, but is being destroyed, I repeat, our own Constitution. And the question is: The SYRIZA Government has promised our country for ninety-nine years. Reduction of wages, reduction of pensions. And now he's coming to gold us the pill, tell us he's going to give us countermeasures? Did we forget, ladies and gentlemen, the parallel programme? Has it ever been applied? Did we forget the equivalents of the government partner, who has worn all the army's uniforms, for the equivalents to the Armed Forces and Security Body? And today comes this new monstrosity and cuts off the uniforms and other allowances. We all know that there is a problem at the moment, demographically. Can I tell you something? The second child, do you know how subsidized he is? Ten euros a month. This is the raw reality. From 13% you took the VAT to 24%. You've cut your pensions. They had been cut off by previous governments too. The permanent mortgages of the whole crisis are pensioners. At the altar of the programme numbers, the legitimate goods of the security of citizens, social welfare, health and labour are once again sacrificed, with new exhaustive cuts and reductions in remuneration and allowances in the Security Body, as I have said before. I would like, however, to briefly say that you remember last year, in the beginning of 2016, three, that four ministers had come out and said that capital control was abolished in the first quarter, in the second quarter. It's been a year and a half. Capital control is in place. In this period, from last year until this year, PPC's ends have increased, which, in the vast majority, also relate to the lower social classes. Anyone who opens PPC's file to see the account is electrocuted. And you're staying ungrateful. As far as immigration policy and the refugee issue are concerned, do you know - I believe most Members do not know - that four and a half Secretarys of the Ministry of Migration Policy have changed in a year and a half? What happened to the complaints made by a previous secretary, Mr Buddour? I will say something else, ladies and gentlemen. We had raised the world when Mr. Tsakalotos and Mr. Katrugalos in the Constitution shouted and made the world cry out: "Sale the water, sell the ports, sell your mother and leave..." they had an altar at the end. Retired people will lose 8 billion from the second evaluation. The Left Government abolishes the benefits of sports, extreme poverty, the Troika Government will benefit more than 20 million euros, when a few days ago you voted to give tens of millions of strawmen. That's the reality. Now you're coming to tell us you're going to share rations and sandwiches in school. But that's not the way to solve the problem. Poverty is not treated in this way that you think you will deal with it. This leads to impoverishment. Article 15 of the bill, ladies and gentlemen. On the air, social measures. Articles 3 to 9. And tax relief. Articles 11 to 14. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, since I am a predecessor. Of course, the answer is why you are ethered by the government MPs and your porn, of course, who come out on the channels and say every day that it will rain billions - will be given by the Greek people when the time of the crisis arrives. Don't smile, Mr. Xydakis. You don't know what percentage you get. Perhaps you do not reach the 1993 rate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u576	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. I have two communications to this House: I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and with Mr v. Proposal for a Council regulation amending Regulation (EC) No 3126/2003 on criminal liability of Ministers, as in force on 16-05-2017, for criminal proceedings concerning the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Nikolao Kotzia. Secondly, Mrs Anna Asimakopoulou sent to the Bureau the following letter: 'Mr President, by means of this letter, I would like to inform you that I will be absent from Parliament during the period from 18 May to 25 May and therefore be absent from the work of the House for that period'. Does the House approve the requested permission?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u577	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Mr. Tassos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u578	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be brief. Spraying illusions to the Greek people, in the future, of course, that there is socially just capitalist growth and capitalism with a human face, trying to deceive the Greek people once again with measures and countermeasures, you are going through the worst of all fourth memorandums. It is worse because, without one of the measures imposed by the previous Memorandums, new, barbaric measures are imposed against workers and people, low pay and low pensioners, while one of the fifty-six tax exemptions, which our shipowners have, are not abolished. A characteristic example of countermeasure fraud is the reduction from 22% to 20% of the taxation to natural persons, which does not, of course, mean alleviating to what a wage or pensioner paid before, since for one who has for example an 8,500 income and before paying a zero tax, now with the reduction of the tax of about 3,000 euros will pay a 20% tax, 600 euros more, instead of the 660 euros he would pay if it were 22%. On the contrary, a legal person with a profit of EUR 100,000, with the reduction of the tax rate from 29% to 26%, will have a real relief of EUR 3 000, equal to the burden, which will have five low-wage or low-wage pensioners. And, of course, the profits are not EUR 100,000 and they are EUR 1 000 000, then we are talking about fifty respectively. A travel note? Sure. For what? Apparently, of the capital. Would New Democracy, complaining and shouting, do anything different? Obviously not, because its intention to reduce business taxation is expressed. But she's jealous of you. She's jealous of you, because with the left-hand propaganda you're wearing, you've taken her work and you're going through measures that they couldn't pass, so the quarrel about who best serves the interests of capital. You say that you have received blackmail and pressure from our partners. So, our partners are blackmailers? That's why you had to take steps that you wouldn't take. Really? So, your partners, the blackmailers, are defending a different form of development than the one you defend? Do they not believe, like you, in the capitalist way of growth, in investment, in the competitiveness and profitability of the capital that today involves smashing wages, pensions and smashing of labour rights, exactly what you are doing with the memorandums? And without memos, of course. They don't always need the memos. Because you know very well that in order to invest the trillion ponds, only on such terms will they be invested. So stop "working" for pressure and extortion. The interests of capital and imperialism are, of course, served by the European Union and NATO, both inside and outside the country. In fact, in foreign policy and defence matters, you do not even need to pretend and deceive, but by cynicism you are aligning, without any rotation and justification, with the general objectives of imperialism and its armed arm, NATO and the European Union for the control of their energy resources and roads against the interests of the peoples and peace. To achieve this, they certainly do not hesitate to conduct interventions and wars, to sow refugee and death. At the same time, the Government of SYRIZA - ANEL, representing the interests of the Greek bourgeoisie, in the context of the country's national unity and geostrategic upgrading of the country to an energy and transport hub, cooperates and competes with the urban ranks of other countries such as Turkey, Israel, Cyprus, Egypt, and China and Russia. It gives land and water to the American imperialists, making more than 2% of GDP available - the second largest percentage after the US - for military expenditure, giving a new base to Karpathos, renewing and extending the Souda base, inviting NATO to the Aegean and signing the dangerous European Union-Turkey agreement on refugee, cultivating the myth that our participation in NATO and the European Union protects our sovereign rights, peace and security in our region. In this way, however, it is becoming more and more deeply involved in intra-imperialist competition and contradictions, increasing the risks to the Greek people, but also to the other peoples of our region. We say that the only way for people to live without exploitation and war, in peace and cooperation between them, is to overthrow the capitalist system, because exploitation and war are its building elements, is in DNA of capitalism and imperialism. Easy? Not at all, but a one-way. Because otherwise, we have to accept that we will be living permanently in a regime with exploitation and wars. Are sacrifices required? Yes, but less than what the Greek people have been doing for eight years now, with no prospect of stopping the Greek people from living without exploitation and wars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u579	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-17-S1-commons.u580	With Parliament's consent, the meeting for today, Thursday, May 18, 2017, at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: legislative work, continuation of discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Retirement provisions and modification of the provisions of Law.4387/2016, measures to implement the budget objectives and reforms, social support measures and work arrangements, the medium-term framework of the Financial Strategy 2018-2021 and other provisions."
