ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Definition of the State Budget for the financial year 2018’. At today's sitting we propose to start with two circles of speakers. The first cycle will include the eight general rapporteurs and the independent special rapporteurs, so that they may, if they so wish, be seconded for three minutes each. The second cycle will comprise eight Members of Parliament who will, if they so wish, also for three minutes. In these circles it is proposed that Ministers be involved. The speeches of the political leaders will then begin and then it is estimated that the procedure can be completed by 21.00 at night, so that the vote can begin. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u2	The House unanimously agreed. The general rapporteur for the Independent Members, Mr Theocharis Theocharis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. We've been waiting since 11:00, so one tolerance will be requested in this second language. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, in my protology I have shown that today's budget does not serve either development or social cohesion or good governance. With this budget you are consistent with the way all the governments of the past have drawn up. In these days I have heard several of my fellow Members and their positions, as well as rereading the letter from the main finance ministers with whom they tabled this budget. Mr. Chakatte, in this letter: First, you say that the 2018 budget will mark the country's exit from the programmes. But you have forgotten, Mr Tsakalotes, that the programs and memoranda will end for creditors who will not put a single euro in place, but they continue for the Greek professional who will work to pay back the 3.5% that you agreed for the next few years. Secondly, you say that the significant overrun of the objectives has contributed to restoring international credibility for the country's return to international markets. You forgot to explain to the unemployed Greeks that overcoming the goals was done by cutting off the OAED and the rest of the social policy. You forgot to explain to the poor Greeks that international credibility is only validated by foreign investments. Such a vote of confidence you haven't taken yet. I barely have tricks and terraces, like in Greek, no investor will come. Thirdly, you say that for 2018 the primary surplus of 3.8% of GDP is compatible with the objectives and provides a significant margin of security. Whilst they ask you for austerity, you are being given overcrowded with considerable margin of security. Fourthly, you say that the adaptation was accompanied by the gradual strengthening of the protection of the most vulnerable layers and interventions to deal with child poverty. Did you forget that you frozen the minimum guaranteed income for two years and two months? Did you deliberately overlook the fact that the social exclusion index has been stationary for two years? That child poverty has increased by one unit since 2014? That his children are living under the conditions of material deprivation are more than you have received? If the dividend reduces poverty as you tell us, how much would the programs you cut? Fifthly, say that for 2018, spending savings will finance social protection actions. Is that social policy, Mr. Minister, of SYRIZA? Are you cutting social costs of EUR 1.6 billion and finding 260 million for relief? Here I am tabling a chart from a recent article by Inside Story: EUR 2.6 billion has been falling since 2017 in the year 2018, social expenditure as a whole and EUR 1 billion have been going up. This is your social policy. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis, presents for the minutes the abovementioned chart, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Sixthly, you say that in the next few years the rate of economic growth is sufficient to widen the interventions to strengthen social protection. You think it's adequacy to expect growth of 2.7%, and if you're lucky, why are some economists talking about 1%, getting 1.3%, that's not even half? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing, Mr. President. And close, writing: "The government, consistent with its commitments to Greek citizens and its partners, continues its path of sound financial management with social justice". If you are politically honest, Mr Tsakalotes, you should complete it like this: The Government is consistent with its commitments to the partners to cut development costs and increase taxes. When this is not enough to pay the creditors, it also cuts the social funds of the Greek non-preferential, baptizing this policy as social justice. I shall conclude, Mr President. Without a strategic plan to attract investment in order to bring serious investors and not koruna with dubious capital, without a strategic development plan of the country to stay here and not give their best years to foreign homelands, without objectives to improve the indicators of social welfare to raise our kneel citizens and rebuild their dreams, without a vision from the political system the Greek citizen is helpless and trapped in a drama, while all you do every day is canceling his efforts, as so many governments have done in the past. And the question is, until when, ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u4	Mr. Amyras from the river has the floor for three minutes. We've agreed three minutes to the whole House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. I'm worried you're looking at me like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u6	Because Mr. Theocharis broke it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the first day of the budget debate we did not have the opportunity to have Mr Tsakalotos with us because he was in New York. I imagine it was dramatic and traumatic experience getting the hammer in there in the man of capitalism on Wall Street. But I think that bad luck would be if you were asked by a broker that day: 'How would you manage, Eukleidd, for 2017 when you said that the country would have 2.7% growth and finally have 1.4%?' I'm curious to hear your answer. As also, if the broker asked you: "Find Eukleidis, how did you do it again, while saying that the country's primary surplus will reach 2.2%, with a commitment to the lenders of one and a half units, get it to 4%?" "You are a miraclemaker" you may have been told and offered a job at Wall Street to gamble, cut into shares and increase the profits of capitalism that you so much fight, but I imagine from within. That is all wrong, but I did not come here to remind you of the big mistakes. I have come to tell you about the minor problems that small and medium-sized enterprises have. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that we still have capital control. What does that mean, dear Mr. Chakaloto? Does it mean that, for example, if he has exhausted the monthly transfer that he can send abroad to buy products - I remind you that the astronomical amount is EUR 1,000 - and in view of Christmas he wanted to order more books he would go to her bank, make applications, fill out the various papers, and you know what the answer would be? The approval will be in four to ten days. What should I do after a holiday if it's approved? And if the librarian goes to the bank, he will sign the papers again, give 12 euros, and then who is favoured, dear Mr Tsakalotes? Only the great are favored that they can stack. Unfortunately, the small and medium-sized ones have reached the point of chasing their tails, the euro to survive. If this real economic problem does not reach you, tell me the other one: Why is it that when a small dealer goes to the bank to get coins, change to his customers, suddenly this month he finds that the limit of EUR 500 went to EUR 375? And he's paying for this, you know. He doesn't give the bill and he gets the coins for free. He pays for three euros and for each transaction. "Neither the basics, dear Euclid?". Possibly, a broker would say there in New York in the nest and in the heart and mouth of the beast. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, for the record to say that the two merchants are Areti Georgilis and Nikos Zarcadulas, who are struggling to survive in the midst of capital control, amidst a government which talks about theories and big words and allows the daily real economy to bleed and sink. I do not want to repeat what I said in the protology that people do not eat the fairy tale that in August 2018 the memorandum ends. As I have said many times, with a reaction from several MPs, good colleagues from the SYRIZA and ANELs, the memorandum is, unfortunately, ending for lenders because they are exempt from their obligation to borrow us. Is it not a memorial that increases from 1-1-2019 will be reduced? Is it not a memorial of the great, the bloody surpluses, as you described them until 2060 in substance? Is it not a memorial that until 2115 anything belonging to the Greek State is supposed to belong to the supreme lenders? That's the reality. I would say to you, Mr Minister, that Wall Street may be expecting you with open arms and treating you here, but you are due to answer because you have not set the change or the coins of the small traders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr. Amyras. The Vice-President of the Parliament and special speaker of the Association of Centres, Mr Marios Georgiadis, has the floor for three minutes. Please respect the time, Mr. Georgiades.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u9	I shall try, Mr President, like all my colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u10	You're Vice President, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u11	Don't drop the ball on me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u12	If we break time, then what can we tell others?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u13	And I'm a generous Vice President, as you know, because I let them talk more.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u14	A good example to give.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u15	The good example to give, yes. Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. It is clear, and this has also been seen from the previous days during the debate, that this budget is the most anti-developmental and tax-driven that has ever existed since post-polluting. Unfortunately, all the government does right now is manage the misery. I'll be specific. He takes one pension from the poor via the CSCE to give it to the poor. It takes EUR 500 a year to give it to the record, if I may express it, half, of course, to go to two families. He puts his hands on the heating allowance to give a poverty benefit to a unemployed person. Not all of this at random, of course. It also has antidotes as the government says, countermeasures, although they are ever given. Because I do not think you will be able to give a single euro. You have come to owe more than half Greece, more than four million, and even without any opposition, and dues have a rate of one billion euros a month. And I submit a relevant report in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] And we have a Prime Minister who says: "Come to the Promised Land to invest." To invest who? The one who will open his business the first year should give 75% of his income to the state? You guys want to shut him down before he even opens up his business. Unfortunately, all you want is for citizens to depend on you, for them to be financially disabled and come to our offices - including my own, because every day I receive calls and all they ask me is to find a job. They're not asking for anything else. They come by saying: "We don't have a job, we don't have money, we cut pensions, we cut wages, we're unemployed. We need a job. Help." As the state grows - and I will say this once more, I keep saying it - the more the client state grows, so this economy will not breathe. The solution is one: State reduction. The slow wages must be found and removed. I cannot preside here at 12 o'clock at night, have colleagues working alongside me and others sitting in their homes and not even going to the workplace. That's not social equality. [[This is where the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] Mr President, I will conclude in a minute. Reduction of Members' privileges. I know that the MPs have made generous reductions in recent years, but there are other hereditaries' privileges that we have to look at. There can be no pensions of EUR 3 000, on the other hand, to cut the NSA from the citizens who receive EUR 400 and 500. That is why we call the 'EUR 1,500 maximum pension' Central Association, so that we do not have to cut off the ESS at any moment. The benefits of these moves will obviously give incentives to reduce taxes and be able to reduce contributions. The question is this, why, of course, have all the states of the Western world gone away from the memoranda? Do you want to do that? Do you want there to be citizens who don't depend on your ‘popularity’? Obviously not, because it's not your interest. We are voting against this budget as a whole and we will be putting it on specific points in the vote this evening. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr. Georgiadis. Mr. Kammenos, a special speaker from the ANELs, has the floor. I don't have to tell you the same thing I told Mr. Georgiadis from the standpoint of Vice-Presidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u17	Thank you very much, Mr President. Today I have the luck and joy of personally introducing for the third time - and in 2015 and in 2016 and 2017 - a budget of SYRIZA - Independent Greeks. As I have said in my report and in the committees, it is a difficult budget. Politically, but also practically, we will be able to achieve it, as we have done for the other two years. We know that by exchanging bonds we made 15 days ago, the blessed PSI, the 30 billion, the markets calmed down and we saw how much money was dropped in the ten-year bond. It will fall further and we will make two more publications - God first - by August 2018, so that we can get rid of the creditors' disbursements. What's a memorandum? The Memorandum, as we have experienced in recent years, is the direct dependence of disbursement of European partners by the ESM or EFSF, the extortion of the dose, to take the measures. For years the measures have not been taken, our government has come to work very hard, so that we can get through the evaluations, make disbursements, get a very cheap one, 1%, with thirty-and-a-half years of repayment for any disbursement, i.e. very cheap money, so that Greece can save resources, reconstruct and get on the way to development. Finally, a relationship means that we will no longer have the extortion of the disbursement of a dose and will carry out our programme seriously, budgetaryly as it should be in Europe's rules and as a serious government, we will develop the market as we should. We won't have someone to tell us every three months with the check list that "you did, you didn't, you get it, you don't get a dose", with this conversation bringing a huge risk, a huge course on the markets, a huge insecurity on domestic and external investors throughout the market: "Now they're taking the dose or not taking it? Will they go bankrupt or not?’ At 9 of spreads, at 8 of spreads. This will end and this is happiness for the Greek economy and we are lucky that our own government will achieve this in less than ten months from today. We should look into the new Greece in the eyes, with honesty. The mistakes that have happened and continue to happen must be corrected, because we will not have another opportunity to correct the bad texts of the Greek economy and the Greek public sector, which, unfortunately, is competitive and negative towards investment and investors. He needs rule of law. You need to have a friend state in investment. It takes banks that have clean balance sheets, not to have red loans, and all this in a healthy and fair way, so that they come out with cheap money, but also available money, on the markets. Cheap, because they will have come out on the markets, but our banks will borrow much cheaper, so that money and funding will come out for the development of the Greek economy. All this presupposes leaving and escape these sufferings of the last seven years. I now come to the last statement, the last minute I have left, to say this. I was dissatisfied by the statement of "53", which says: "The mandatory and in some cases painful alliance with ANELs, as long as it lasts, cannot be an alibi for retreats to crucial issues for our physiognomy. In any case today this co-government, etc. must be assessed.’ We have recommended three times. Is it painful to get to know each other and have we all taken the political weight? Is that painful? For whom is it painful, for the hundreds forty - three, or for the nine? We're nine. It's not at all painful, and it's painful for us. I also insist on my disagreement on the issue of Thrace. This is a very difficult matter. I'm going to read Mr. Erdogan's catechism, which was taped by a cell phone while he was talking to the students. And unfortunately, Mr. Amanatidis couldn't do anything because he didn't have a direct translation. And Mr Erdogan says: 'A flag, a homeland, a state'. What does a nation mean, a flag, a state? Okay. ‘There are no discriminations, there are no differences. We'll be one, we'll be strong, we'll be alive, we'll be brothers. We will all be Turkey!", said Mr Erdogan. Now you want me to vote for the mute from the base. Do what? You want one of Arcadia to vote for the Vice-Regional Admiral in Komotini. Is that what we want, gentlemen? If I am not serious, as a fellow Member has said, you must respect my serious vote for three years and what I have taken from the blackmails and all that I and my family have taken when I left Minister that night. You will respect my vote and what I do and the Independent Greeks. Because we're not here to play even to gossip. We support the country, we support the government. But they all have a limit! I'm on staff! Thank you very much. And I don't expect you to applaud me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u18	We continue with the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Karathanasopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll start my intervention with a story I was told the day before I went to Kefalonia. Dionysius told me. He tells me: "Tell there in the House the following historical incident. During the Middle War, in my village, from hunger every morning, the children were swept. One, two, three, I noticed that from one family the kids wouldn't rust. One, two, three days, nothing. They ask their father: Hey, Mackey, what are you doing, and your kids don't rust every morning, like the kids of all of us do? Oh, he says, I'm doing something very simple. I'm taking a plate of lentils, and I'm tearing them to the gravel. So they're looking to find the lentils in the carpets and they don't talk." Does that real story remind you of you? Does it remind you of the various social benefits, the various tips, the various crumbs you fly in the world to shut his mouth and not claim to have pride? This is the policy of the carrot. That is what the previous governments did. That's what New Democracy and PASOK did. And where the carrot doesn't pass, it crosses the whip and you're trying with violence, repression, you're getting to the point that you're now abolishing, in essence, the right to strike, just to have the labour movement subordinated. Who told you that with a subordinated people you could make changes, as you said yesterday, Mr. Chakaloto? Equally, a subordinate people means that they are declaring themselves to the developments of things and to the right of the mighty, who are currently the capital, the monopolistic groups, the system that you are serving. The other parties did the same, and the New Democracy and the PASOK did the same. On the legislative framework created by the other parties, you go a step further, just to shield the interests of big capital, precisely to shield its profitability, so that capitalist growth can come. Because capitalist growth in another way, without capitalist profit, does not exist. One is the source of capitalist profit: the exploitation of workers. And that's what you're serving. So the government's economic policy, as reflected in the budget, has, as the New Democracy had, two objectives. Who are they? Financial consolidation, the promotion of capitalist restructuring with a basic starting point to overcome the capitalist crisis and the recovery of capitalist profits. The same is true of New Democracy and PASOK. You only disagree with the mix and who is a better manager, as if it were important from what pocket the worker and the popular layers would lose in order to benefit the big capital. Of course the state budget is unfair, anti-grassy, classic, because you take one of the many and give it to the few, either from the revenue side or from the expenditure side. It shows precisely the need to promote these capitalist restructurings. So it is not about adapting and subjecting to a rotting system. It is not adaptation and subjection to a European Union that is reacting and is becoming more and more reactionary. But history, Mr. Chakaloto, since you are a studyer of history, shows that the great overthrows have been made not by those who have been subjected to the current, but by those who have fought against the current. That's what history teaches. So, against the current, the people must fight with a strong JRC, with a strong, combative class-based folk movement aimed at the real opponent, capital, monopolistic groups and the capitalist system in order to be able to possibly have individual conquests, but above all, to lead to a great break and overthrow. To take the power of the working class in its hands, so that it can organize production and the economy, focusing on satisfying people's needs and not on capitalist gain. Otherwise the case of "reforms within the system" is a bankrupt model, which led to a huge deadlock on the part of the labour movement that followed this process and logic. In this respect, then, we are optimistic that the next day will dawn with a working class which will just claim the satisfaction of its historic mission, which is the overthrow of the capitalist system.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u20	And we're moving on. Mr Panayotarus has the floor in terms of Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Finally, the greatest joke of Parliament and of politics in our time is the famous '53' of SYRIZA. From Mr. Philosophy who has voted for everything, memorandum, reductions, auctions, to the revolutionary Mr. Tsakalotos who, from the people's assemblies of the Syntagma Square, ended up hitting the hammer at the start of Wall Street as a good investor. Of course, not as a good investor with bonds from the Greek State. He knew where Mr. Tsakalotos was invested. He is an investor of BLACKROCK, which is a company that protects everything from Greek rich sources. It is a budget that is copy paste, and in fact it is in the hands of the German germans, as you said the previous ones and the previous ones, Merkel and Fuchtel. It is a budget that naturally has no sign of development. In addition, you yourself admitted it to the committees and to the plenary. However, you are trying to convince us that with this very large surplus of more than 3.5% you will be able to bring any growth. A primary surplus for which there are classifications between German officials - those who direct our country's economy - and the International Monetary Fund. On the one hand, we have the International Monetary Fund, which says that debt must be restructured. Somewhere, he's smacking somewhere and possibly a haircut. On the other hand, economic instructurs are coming, those who bring you up with the economic bills and not just, and they tell you, since you achieve huge primary surpluses, because you want to have a debt or even a debt restructuring or part of it. A budget which, once again, will lead even more Greeks to unemployment, migration abroad, more Greek businesses to close and, of course, for those who are staying here and struggling to live their families and themselves, lead to black labour, illegal work or any other form of work and entrepreneurship, so that they can live. All this financial craving of your governments to be accompanied by national dividends on the very serious issues that concern our homeland or on the so-called Skopje, where we see that you want and wish to qualify the name New Macedonia for Skopje, a huge gift to the Skopje. Don't forget, after all, their 'Nova Macedonia' printed, which has been in existence for many years and is the greatest gift you could make them. For the Golden Dawn, our permanent position is known: No compromise for the name of Macedonia, no derivative, no geographical determination or anything at all. Apart from Skopje, we see that you are going ahead on the basis of a plan, because this is the minority issue in Thrace, where after the native Erdogan visit, who imposed on you this visit and you all know it very well and you couldn't do it otherwise, we now see the Syriza executives moving exactly with Mr Erdogan's agenda. At the culmination of these indifferences we have seen a few days ago, where the Minister of Education has been abducting state security to the region, who has asked for information on who is using the term ‘Turkish minority’. He's finally going through Gabroglou, and so Erdogan, and the police, the manager, get transferring, distracting, leaving and going elsewhere. To conclude, Mr President, I should also like to continue on the very serious issue of mushrooms, which is precisely on the line of Mr Erdogan. You want them to be elected, as very democrats you are, immigrants of the Chuchescu and the other 'democratic' regimes that did not see them either with the blue, and you want to impose something that is not done in Turkey either. That is why I am tabling a report saying that in Turkey mufts of course are not elected, but are appointed by Erdogan himself, as will be done here. Any electoral procedure that you think you control will be just for the eyes of the world. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Unfortunately, this budget on both economic issues, but also in the other areas it affects, because it is well or badly through the budget that everything is moving, defence, education, health, all of which will be driven for another year on an even worse footing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-nine students and students and three educational attendances from the 4th Petroupoli High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Congressman Andreas Koutsoubas is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u23	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Mr Koutsoukos has the floor
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has become fashionable lately when it comes to criticising it, talking about make news. Well, I've spoken as a suggestion in relation to tax bleeding and cutting off social spending with certain numbers. These figures come from the draft budget reports themselves, that is, government texts. So it is not just a matter of making news, ladies and gentlemen, that the 2018 budget has 1.8 billion taxes and that it has 1.2 billion cuts. Nor is it fake news, of course, that the government's previous budgets, the first had 7.2 billion measures and the second 4 billion measures. The new measures of 2018 concern dramatic cuts. First of all, first of all, the pit of the EASA, heating oil, new taxes paid by employees and pensioners, because the tax is abolished, the deduction of medical expenses is abolished, the contributions of the free traders will be increased, and so on. This isn't about making news. These are what is provided for in the budget and are written in the rapporteur's report. Obviously, ladies and gentlemen, the 11 billion surplus of the three years that you are running did not come from growth, as GDP was zero in the three years that you are running. Furthermore, the 7.5 billion surplus of the 2018 budget, which we are discussing, will not come from growth, but from the bleeding of the wide folk layers. The 24 billion surpluses by the end of the programme, which you have voted and committed the country, will not come from growth. Only a small piece, around 5 to 6 billion, will come from growth and GDP. The remaining 15 billion will be a continuation of tax bleeding. Obviously these are also elements arising from your own papers and the commitments and the laws you have passed. The government therefore continues a tax policy that undermines the development and exit of the country from the crisis. And this downside spiral will continue as long as this tax policy of bleeding continues, as long as there is no stable political framework for attracting investment. Mr. Tsakalotos may have hit the hammer on Wall Street, but by hitting the hammer on Wall Street, ladies and gentlemen. The most important thing to do is to keep this hammer as a reminder, because nothing else will be left to him as a memento from his path and the signatures he has made with the commitments he has made for the country. And when we tell you about bleeding, you tell us that the revenues are from the fight against tax evasion. We told you that only 10 million people have been smuggled from the smuggling of cigarettes, tobacco and so on, and only 80 million from the famous lists, from the ones you would solve, that is, the problem. But, ladies and gentlemen, in order that Mr Tsipras, as the main propaganda in government policy, should not be taken over by the bankers to protect you from the make news, you have nothing but to do this simple, so that you do not prove yourself as a "first time left". We have tabled a proposal for a law, which is very substantiated, for the protection of first homes, that the auctions are coming out of your first home, Mr. Friends tell you, the '53' is told by the thousand and fifty-three people, and you are told by the forty thousand at risk. The proposal for a law is too comparable, with criteria, without populism. You have nothing but to accept it. Of course, you can only accept the other proposal for a law on the retention, even for one year, of VAT on the thirty-two islands. You have had the luxury, ladies and gentlemen, to remember a law proposed by Mrs Papanatsiou and signed by Mr Tsakalotou, the island of Mayotte, a forgotten island of French territory. I say this to prove that what you say to islanders is that foreigners are pushing you, because there can be no exceptions, they have no basis for truth. Tell at least the truth: that you are weak to negotiate and that you are weak to keep a regime that protects the inhabitants of the islands. Because VAT, ladies and gentlemen, is a burden on consumption. It burdens the level of life on the islands. In conclusion, therefore, we believe that this policy does not lead to an exit, either clean or mixed. It is a political undermining, because on the one hand the primary surpluses and, on the other, the increased cost of borrowing that will arise impoverished Greece and undermine the exit. Unless we believe what Mr Tsakalotos said yesterday in his dialogue with Mr. Venizelos, he has the money of the ESM. As regards the criticism that you have the 'cushion', that you have the stock, which is from overtaxation, you say 'no, there is the ESS'. So I read from the Minutes of yesterday's debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u25	Please, Mr. Kutsuko.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u26	I shall conclude, Mr President. For the equality of arms, I ask for exactly the same time as the previous ones. And Mr Chakalotos has just made it clear. As a consequence, Greece's commitment to the biennial policy is unsuccessful. There's no way out of the memos. That's the continuity of the lies. Only by overthrowing political correlations can this deadlock policy be overturned. Because the Greek people, who have paid and paid unfairly, are now entitled to have better days. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u28	Mr President, I would like the floor to make a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u29	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u30	I'll make an explanation, Mr. Kutsuko. I also said from the ESM money and from the exits to the market we've made and we'll be doing the next period.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u31	And we move on with the rapporteur-general from the point of view of the New Democracy, Mr Teddy. Here, Mr. Dendia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, I think, first of all, that during the debate that has taken place here, it has proved a great deal that this budget does not meet the three main criteria that a budget has to fulfil, according to the Government, in order to be successful. It does not serve public finances, it is not developmental and, of course, it is not redistributive, it is not fair. After all, the minister present, Mr Chakalotos, admitted that. It cannot be fair during a time of crisis a budget, when the CSCE is cutting down, is cutting the social budget by EUR 1.6 billion, cutting expenditure on health by EUR 350 million. We also responded to what costs the government could cut. We have shown you that you have progressed to thousands of rhetorical appointments and placements in heads and to the creation of forty-eight new legal persons. We have also shown you in the clearest way, Minister, what you have not been able to absorb. There are programs in which your absorptions of technocratically perfectly, as you present us, a competent government, do not exceed 1%. If ever possible! And you have become the laughingstock of the Community officials, when you are accused of even in immigration, the major crisis in Europe, you have not been able to absorb EUR 1 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u33	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u34	And we gave you the graceful shot because we showed you laws, provisions, articles, amendments, where you have passed a series of fines, a series of arrangements that serve what you yourself call a complication, such as the favourable provisions on offshore just before the end of 2016, with which millions of millions of fines have been spared, or the provisions on the elimination of the criminal for cartels that you have passed in a spirit of the law and the views of the Competition Committee. But I have to say we didn't expect anything else. Everyone is convinced - in society, a very large number more than 80% - that this is an unreserved government, which represents a philosophical one with a policy of benefits. Takes ten, turns half, and that's what he calls charity. It is well-known that it is not a charity who shares small allowances and tips as charity, but a charity that creates conditions for job creation and even a majority of full-time jobs, because we have now entered the new fashion the majority to be limited. And finally, there is only the government's last idea, the so-called clean exit, which is not pure and is not an exit. Because it cannot be an exit, when an additional EUR 5.2 billion has been passed, which we have before us, and certainly cannot be clear, when the property of the Greek state, the Greek people, the Greek society is bound by you and with requirements that no other government has dared or accepted to sign until the 22nd century. This is the result of your proud presence in public affairs and public life. As I told you at the end of my prototype, with good time coming to an end, with good and good time you will go home and society will recover after your absence from the government of the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u35	The rapporteur-General from SYRIZA, Mr Vettas, should be given the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u36	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I think they've been said all these five days. To sum up, then, I would say that we are implementing a budget with financial constraints - you all know - and we hope that this year will be the country's last year of budgetary adjustment and that it is now opening a window of optimism and an important opportunity to plan the safe exit of the country not only from its economic programme but also for its course in the future. The budgets that we have implemented these three years were budgets intended to comply with two rules. The first rule was to satisfy the budgetary objectives and, of course, to implement and increase a social budget in the place of a reduced budget, I would say, not to say any social budget of the previous government. Yesterday it needed a small intervention with a verbal intervention from the President of the Parliament: to withdraw the key element of its account, that the country is now where it was in 2014. We discovered, then, all of a sudden yesterday from the lips of the New Democracy that growth was not 0.7%, it was 0.2%. Of course, with a social budget that year down. You remember, it was the time of the penny that a father had to pay five euros to take his child to the hospital. The funds are licensed to pay wages and pensions, no security pillow to leave the country, as the program ended in February 2015, on the markets and with a mountain interest and debt. I am not going to talk about unemployment or interest rates. You know who she was. It was forbidden interest rates to exit the country on the markets. It was the time - I say it because I come from this small profession - of criminalising the non-payment of contributions to the OAU. It was the time of criminalisation, if you remember, gentlemen of the New Democracy and PASOK, the VAT debts. We denounced the debts to a certain extent and to one measure, because we acknowledged that these debts of the small professionals had been built during the crisis. So you escaped. We brought the agreement, you blamed us for the 86 billion deal. But 54 billion were taken to pay your debts, the New Democracy, and especially the PASOK, which is silent. I do not want to say anything more about the budget, I want to make a general statement, and I think things are slowly clear, listening to things and statements. At the conference in New Democracy, Mr Samaras said that "we are indeed conservative with society and liberals with the economy". And, of course, it is so because they have to subjugate society to implement all that they are planning to implement. Of course, this philosophy is part of and Mr Mitsotakis' statement that social inequality is a natural phenomenon - in purely Greek, whoever has lived - and that it is not the responsibility of the state, it is not the responsibility of the state, it is not the responsibility of society to protect all those who did not make it out of life, their health was not such that they could make it out of life and did not make it out of life. So it was natural that two and a half million insurers were left. It is natural that they should be abolished in August 2012, with your own decisions, fifty three children’s seats at the nursery stations. In this very philosophy of jungle, the philosophy of Mr.Mitsotakis, who described as "flying" the dividend that will be received by the new children who are registered in the OAED and who are looking for a raft of optimism and joy, is included. And I'm saying that, because all the kids in the country don't have a dad who solves everything, not a dad who calls to work his kid in the bank, not a dad and an uncle who makes you a MP and minister. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One minute and I shall conclude, Mr President. Of course, Mr Mitsotakis' view on the privatization of social security is also interesting, and that is what Parliament must do. It's an important statement. It shows where he's going, what his proposal is and what he wants to do. "In September 2014, I read, "...the country is far from the referendum on the protection of countries against speculators." On 1 January 2016 here on the right-hand door, as I am looking at, Parliament had to set a wheelchair, because there was really a very important traffic conspiracy when we voted on the amendment - remember, then - to ban political people from being involved in offshore. The New Democracy is gone first. We wondered why. But you know that question that was solved by Panama and Paradise Papers. Involved, of course, there are well-known and collaborators of the great patriotic party, New Democracy! I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying this and I would like to mention the decision of the Council of State, that the provisions of the ministerial decisions which stated that deposits other than banks of more than EUR 15 000, located in houses or lockers and mobile phones, luxury items or jewelry and other value of more than EUR 30,000, are invalid and unenforceable. These arrangements following the current decision cannot be applied to any of the debtors. Important intervention of justice! But no one can judge justice. It will be judged by the Greek people, who have ordered transparency, who has ordered democracy and I think this decision and democracy is affected, but also transparency. Mr President, this battle will be fought between two very great powers. It will be given between the country's progressive party - the great progressive party, which is, on the other hand, great - on the other hand, a right which is the most extreme right that the country has ever known. I think that the country's course in the future can only take its hands clean and fair. And this command of the Greek people to go honestly and with responsibility, in order to get him out of his judgment, will be done by us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u37	Thank you. We proceed with the Minister for Digital Policy, Mr. Pappas. Mr. Poppa, you have the floor for ten minutes under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we come to discuss a budget, one year after a corresponding debate, in which the anti-population predictions were that the previous budget would not come out. And, oh of the miracle, not only did it come out, but we have the opportunity to share a very valuable dividend and not 'fly', as insultingly, some have unfortunately chosen to characterize this aid, this top, very serious political choice. We are talking about a budget which in these circumstances increases family allowances, spending on school meals, day-care stations, employment programmes, hospital aid, and yet it also goes beyond what is agreed objectives. And, of course, in the field of development, we have a growth that is consolidated, which is repeated every three months, and it seems to have a very strong foundation. The interest rate of the ten-year bond is below 4%. I sincerely cannot understand how we are talking again today about inability to borrow or high borrowing costs and, of course, I am more unable to understand with what stream some people are going up to this Step and are accusing us of changes that they have agreed in 2014 with the infamous mail Hardouveli. And now that we have said about Hardouvelis mail, the critical intervention of the Minister of Finance of the last government of Samaras, that was not his e-mail to which he gave everything to start the debate, not to close the agreement. The most important intervention by Mr Hardouveli, ladies and gentlemen, was the intervention in which he admitted that the previous agreement did not come out. This is the intervention of Mr Hardouvelis, which the opposition wing does not want to remember. The man who was at the heart of economic policy planning, the success story of Mr Samaras, openly admitted that the agreed objectives were not achieved at that time. Obviously, they knew something. And what we used to call 'international markets' had interest rates at 8% and 9%. So the New Democracy cannot stand to see that the wounds of the policies it has implemented and the cooperation governments to which it has been involved are slowly shut down. She bet all her money, put all her belongings on the ship of the "left parentheses". And the 'left parentheses' ship, ladies and gentlemen, has sinked. And it submerged incense. The New Democracy cannot make either lifting or depollution from the extreme right and neoliberal ideas, which it had loaded on the ship of the "left parenthesis" as an ammunition and as a vessel. That's the simple truth. In the face of these deadlocks lies the Civic Opposition and falls into political dialogue ideas such as "equities are in human nature", "tax evasion is a human right" and, lastly, "insurance will have anyone who chooses, who can." This is a section - I think - in the political positions of the New Democracy which will characterise it and carry it for a long time, because it is now an official meeting that we have understood. This must be heard by the Greek people, that is, that the Civic Opposition moves to a position of voluntary social security, which is of course a long way from our own choices, which also impose universality, but also protect people who were unable to access medical care. Ladies and gentlemen of Anti-Population, it is not a safe haven the success story of the Samara government. You're not entering a shelter. You embrace a shipwreck condemned by the Greek people twice and three times. You choose the small and easy mental, political and ideological effort. You are not wondering what a conservative party can mean in the memorial era, how this country must go and what an ideological arsenal you are entering.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u39	Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u40	It's not liberal. It's extreme neoliberal. These are options which in the very recent past have been tested in Western societies, with disastrous results in terms of poverty, social inequalities and economic efficiency. You were committed to 20 billion more goals. You had signed fifteen thousand redundancies and you certainly committed yourself to a programme which, as your Minister of Finance said then, was not going to come out. Mr Samaras and Mr Mitsotakis, the most unsuccessful Minister for Administrative Reform, have signed and will be - I would say - on the occasion of the budget debate to enlighten us if any of these old signatures wish to withdraw or if in these signatures you insist, so that the people know exactly what you would really like to do from your own lips. I would recommend that you avoid the extremities of the "New Democracy will reduce taxes" or that it is the party of the poor, because these are gross lies, which cannot stand. Our people cannot forget either how you were politicizing when we were talking about offshore, or the practice of loans with 'air', nor of course the unseen 'before', nor of course the lasting and lasting relations. The New Democracy says it will reduce taxes. One wonders why it did not reduce them when they were able to do so and why does it bring this argument to the political debate at the moment? It is simply an excuse, ladies and gentlemen, which it would like, if it governs - fortunately it will not - to use it in the dolphin and take with the partners to pass as many neoliberal reforms as our own governance has prevented. He said 'I want to reduce taxes'. Response to lenders: "To reduce taxes, make reforms". What reforms? Will Mr. Mitsotakis tell us? Deals or others? Did the hard core of the new memorandum, which he dreams to apply? That is where I think there is the essence of the difference. The country is changing in all areas, ladies and gentlemen. It changes in infrastructure, for example, with the completion of motorways, which cost the country far less, seven hundred million less than agreed by the previous governments. It also changes in the development and dissemination of new technologies, information and communication technologies, with a view to fair digital development, because for us, fair digital development is a prerequisite for not going through a new cycle of enlarged and even greater disparities, because citizens who have access to new technologies can have easier life, more productive work, more operational relationships with the public and that right will ensure. I come to the issues of the Ministry of Digital Policy, let me in particular in the field of information. As you know, the competition for television licences is under way. Greek Radio and Television continue its reconstruction and is the first in Greece - and it is a very important step that has already happened - which opens the way for hybrid television. The radio bill is being submitted and no one should worry, because capacity is too large. It regulates the internet with the internet media register where more than a thousand websites participate. Of course, the audiovisual producer sector is also developing, with EUR 75 million for this year from the Public Investment Programme. It is an area that had been underestimated both in terms of its economic efficiency and its ability to improve the international image of the country. In relation to digital policy: we are digitising the public. We start from the Ministry of Digital Policy and the next few days we complete the digital signature and electronic movement of documents within the Ministry. This program, along with Olga Gerovali in Administrative Reconstruction, will be generalized throughout the state. The only study that exists and has been published on this issue speaks of saving EUR 400 million a year. We will move on to programmes for the electronic identification of citizens and businesses, the integrated information systems for health and ECA, the electronic JEP and attestations we are preparing for both the issue of cyber attacks and the country's adaptation to the relevant European directive. As far as the links are concerned, we have developed the Rural Broadband Programme, for which we have also been awarded at European level. In a few days' time, the grant of fibre-optic networks to households and businesses begins through a programme of EUR 500 million. Of course, we were entirely consistent with the commitment we made through the Prime Minister's own commitment to supporting the connectivity of residents who live in remote regions and islands. Here, let me refer to the space sector, where very serious steps are taking. It has already been announced that the setting-up of a space-based business thermostat in Greece and a large investment by one of the three largest companies in Europe involved in the construction of satellites for the space sector, the OHB, which will install in Greece a micro satellite and satellite manufacturing plant. We are, of course, completing the Hellenic Space Organisation. It is these initiatives that can make people's lives better, bring tomorrow for everyone today. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the situation today. The Greek people are facing too much clear political choices about how it will go ahead in the coming years: will it return to a reality where deficits, opacity and corruption were the norm? Will he choose political forces producing deficits, recession and unemployment or will he continue to walk on the path of recovery, which has very specific conditions? Why does this program work? What is missing, ladies and gentlemen, mainly, from counterpopulation? That is the main question for you. We believe that this programme is a success first, because there has been a very tough negotiation and the budgetary objectives have come down. Because without low budgetary targets, we could not even divide social dividends into dividends, and of course we would drown growth. Secondly, and I am very sorry that it is out of your radar - this programme is implemented after the people's mandate. The people were asked again after the deal. That is what one could not understand from the previous rulers, because one took the order with the "money there" and brought the first memorandum and the second took the order of renegotiation and brought the second one. Of course the third and main pillar is the mechanisms of a social state, which were absent, the Social Income of Solidarity, the free access to health care, the constant support for people in need. The memorial Greece, Greece, which regains not only on the markets, but stands on its feet again, will have the stamp of the left progressive, long-term governance. That's the recipe to close the wounds. This is the recipe for moving forward towards the future, drawing conclusions from the bad past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, too. We proceed with the party's parliamentary representative, Potami Mr. George Mavrotas. Mr. Mavrotas, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u42	I imagine a slight tolerance, Mr President. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the river wing]] The key figures are 2.5% growth and 3.82% primary surpluses. The surpluses you do, I'm not saying. The growth is not coming to the date this year. From 2.7%, we're going now for at least half. Why? Because it is based on good conditions for both investment and employment, as I have described in my prototype. The middle class, the most creative part of society, has been targeted. It's a conscious choice, according to official lips. The upper class obviously makes its panties, has found a modus vivendi with you. The lower class will be increasingly aimed at benefits. The middle class, however, is the one that will constantly be unfermented by overtaxation and insurance contributions. To go to the latter, on the one hand, you pay 400 euros to young unemployed people and on the other, you are preparing to make an insurance contribution of 26.95% on the cost proof, namely the way in which young students are paid mainly. So you'll take them every month and give them a turbour at Christmas. Or you're talking about overcompensation to the FBI and you're not saying that we're paying contributions based on the incomes of 2015 yet. The famous netting when will it be done? Is there a budget in it? Has it been taken into consideration? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will need one more minute, Mr President. I close with the budget, noticing that wage spending is mostly increased at the central office. What does that mean? Recruitment, increases, retraining and not in the front line where the needs exist. Distribution, therefore, based on the needs of the party and not society. But let's see the next day, after August 2018. The third memorandum leaves, surveillance and high primary surpluses remain. We will leave the port of low interest rates and open to the sea of the markets. We will not have three-month evaluations to wait for instalments, because we will be assessed by the markets on a daily basis. What makes me pessimistic is the opportunism and irresponsibility that prevails on the political stage. The most likely scenario is for the government to go to elections in the autumn of 2018, capitalising the nominal exit from the memoranda and before pensioners see the digital reductions in their pensions and move on to benefits that will doubtfully put our course back on track. He says to you: "Let me minimize the election damage and let others pull the snake out of the hole." Unfortunately, without a minimum of understanding and political stability within the narrow framework that our country has, we will be taking note of it when we have to act quickly. Political stability is even expressed by rhetorical expression. And at the moment, in politics, the upper hand is made by the crusaders, not by the synthetics, the splitters, and not by the unionists. This government is doing very well in response, but not in action. He's doing well in protest, not in creation. So when reality becomes your enemy, you build other enemies, more convenient for the TV fight to absorb attention, fill the headlines and empty the minds. But the enemies are not in the other corners, but in the problems of society and the chronic diseases of the country. And the fun is that we all agree on it, but we don't deal with it. Why? Because our chairs may be in danger. That's the bitter truth. The political cost has been and is almost always greater than the political courage we need. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, give me one more minute. So this for tomorrow, which the citizens must listen to, is lost in the cohort fights for yesterday. This is what I fear that we will see in a few hours' time today in the debate of the Heads: two young politicians practicing in old politics for the sake of the party armies. But society, after eight years of front - back, right - left, drunk by populism and demagogy, swings on stereotypes and cannot come out of the labyrinth of the crisis like other countries did. The change we need and everyone is invoking - perhaps by different means - does not properly grow in poisoned soils. So let each of us think about what he has done, but most of all what he can do from now on so that he does not poison this soil. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u43	Mr Anastassios Megalamoustakas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u44	I would like to raise one point, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I think yesterday I said what I had to say in my speech. You have presented a account, that you support and strengthen the social state, that you want to be with the vulnerable social groups, that you care about the weak and that on this altar, in fact, you have destroyed the middle-class, as attributes you have admitted. However, we cannot see that. We do not believe that you are strengthening the weak at a time, whether this is for young people or for the economically most vulnerable, because there is absolutely no regulation on widow's pensions. Even the new improvement, brought by Mrs Ahtsioglou, does not correct the law - an abortion of Mr. Katrugalos, which was anticipated by the surviving spouses, even with 100 euros. So, what are you doing now? You tell them they'll live with 150, 180 and 200 euros. This is not a social state. You have not taken into account what is happening in our society, what is the rate of unemployment? Do you think that a woman of fifty-three years is going to go to the labour market and take a line to get her? Is that easy? When we talk about women without income, this is even more appalling than we all believe. There is also no provision at all for particular cases, which I know very well, such as military wives. And I'm always talking about those who don't have any more income. A woman who was following her husband and was returning all over Greece - every three years they were transferred - you are now coming and forced to live if she has not completed the 55th year of her age, for three years to 200, 300, 400 euros and then tell her to go to the labour market. Do you really think he can do it? Do you have a sense of what's going on outside? So a woman, who stood next to her husband, as she had to, for years, and sacrificed her career, now you're asking her to go to her 53s to get a job? Let us consider a little what the needs of our society are. Let us think very carefully about what people want to say about us when we get out of here. And above all let us consider what good we have to deliver to the Greek citizens. Rule of law, state of defence of the weak through benefits once a year cannot be done! You must put this clearly in your mind and do so accordingly. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, too. The Minister of State, Mr. Janakopoulos, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that despite the anti-population forecasts, various representatives of the political elite who have now withdrawn from the television, the old state-owned business elite, various journalists, paintings, publishers, intellectuals and philosophers of power and all the other representatives of the old political system, who have brought the country to the forefront of destruction, we are still here. Every plan of undermining, parentheses, collapse has fallen into the void. Any desire to rebuild and avenge a return, which would be tantamount to vindicating the choices that led us to the bankruptcy tragedy in 2010, proved to be a walnut. What should anyone want first? In the first half of 2015, ‘left parenthesis’ was based on the tactics of financial suffocation. The relevant parapolitical scenarios before the September 2015 elections? The forecasts for early elections before the first evaluation is closed? The other predictions and the undermining operation during the second assessment based on the irrational requirements of the International Monetary Fund? So many other measures? Will the German Government please build up the legs and not complete the agreement in the summer of 2017? And yet, today, we are still here to propose and vote for another budget, the last Memorandum of Understanding, and to strive firmly to get out of the crisis and comitology. In August 2018, no matter how many people do not want it, the third programme is completed and, indeed, a success. And the opposition rhetoric today against the government and against this obvious political success, is now condensed in two, rather completely contradictory, arguments. The first argument that had been heard against the coronary and last year's debate, but even today, it is – with little persuasiveness now - various participants in the Samara government - Venizelos 2012-2015, is that the country was supposedly ready to go out of memorials by the end of 2014 and that it was the choice of the frontal confrontation with the lenders that led to the third programme. I honestly wonder if those who repeat it believe in it do. If that happens, then they're naive. If they just consider it convenient, they're just cynical. Let's see if this political argument and this political account of the suffering of criticism can be tolerated. What were the objectives of the second programme in general? Achieving a primary surplus for 2014 of 1.5%, which should be launched in 2015 to 3% and 2016 to 4.5%, to stay there around the middle of the next decades, i.e. by 2025, to reach an average of 4% of the primary surplus by 2031. And what showed the result of 2014, ladies and gentlemen? Firstly, the primary surplus of 0.2%. Financial void, that is, about 2015, 2.8% - that means measures amounting to only 6 billion for 2015 - and anaemic growth at 0.8%, based on budgetary failure, because the programme has always been mainly based on the stimulation of consumption. Secondly, unemployment at 27%, no improvement in the fundamental sizes of the Greek economy, such as the index of economic confidence, industrial production, foreign direct investment, exports and so on. And thirdly, an open, correct fifth assessment, which provided for a series of measures, which have been committed several times during the first half of 2015, of the six months that you insist to call "destructive". For example, I would remind you: zero deficit clause for supplementary pensions. Implementation of the small PPC project. Full abolition of protection for first residence. Dismissals of civil servants, mass redundancies, lock out and more, not enough. Also, no clear plan and absolutely no commitment to regulating the Greek debt beyond the general promise of November 2012. Zero cash assets, no liquidity pillows to support possible outlets on the markets and of course failed outlets in the summer of 2014. Where, then, was the rhetoric of succession and the prediction that the programme was successfully completed? In the desire of the then political leadership, so that the troika can make the wrong eyes and give the completion of the second programme to Mr Samaras and Mr Venizelos, in order to avoid, it is assumed, the risk of SYRIZA. To close, in other words, the fifth evaluation without covering the budget gap and giving them a credit line which only existed in their imagination and nowhere else, as none of the institutions, on the international scene, discussed such a possibility. And it is precisely this unfulfilled fantasy that allows Mr Samaras today to claim that his allies have thrown him down. Well, no, his allies didn't throw him. He was thrown by the disastrous agreement he signed with courage and fanaticism. And today the New Democracy wants to return us to these logic of the second programme. He was also - fortunately - thrown by the Greek people. Today, ladies and gentlemen, where are we? In a completely different situation. We successfully complete a difficult adjustment programme, of course, which contains many policy elements, with which we would never agree, but were imposed under well-known conditions and conditions in the summer of 2015. However, this programme is in no way comparable to the second programme, but what we were expected from the second programme. The financial adjustment, which has now been achieved and completed, is clearly milder than the previous one. In fact, it's "the day by night". What does the targets of the 0.5% primary surplus for 2016, 1.75% for 2017 and 3.5% for 2018 relate, with a view to insisting until 2022, on the visible primary surpluses envisaged in the previous agreement and, as I said before, on average, on an average of 4% by 2031? This was agreed by those who today "swing the finger" for the primary surplus of 3.5%. Also in a number of policy areas, the extreme commitments made by the previous government, as I told you before, for the lock out, for mass redundancies in the private sector, for insurance by abolishing the zero deficit clause for ancillary - noteworthy, Mr Mitsotakis in an unavoidable time in this Chamber has defended it, and for this to be recalled - with the redundancies in the public sector, which Mr Mitsotakis has obviously served in the past with too much fanaticism - I would remind you that fifteen thousand redundancies were still anticipated on the basis of the second programme - and the total abolition of the protection of first residence. At the same time as all these previous governments' commitments have been made, many others have been won by a series of positive measures through tough negotiation. I would like to say this: the health coverage of two and a half million uninsured people. The social income of solidarity, which now covers six hundred thousands of our fellow citizens and this year's budget will be financed with over 700 million euros. Restoration of collective bargaining in September 2018. Exemptions from rule 1: 4 for contractors in cleanliness, but also for five-year-old firefighters. The increase in the budget by EUR 260 million for family allowances, where the total budget will now reach EUR 910 million. And we do not forget at all that various loopholes of today's Officerial Opposition were talking about a reduction, supposedly, of the social budget, even a few days ago. I would also like to mention initiatives that are not directly related to the agreement, but concern policy priorities and the orientation of state funding. I don't want to stand in detail. The previous speakers have quite clearly said so. I will only mention some of them: In the health sector we have strengthened the country’s hospitals with thousands of doctors and nurses. There are policies in the field of broadening rights and freedoms with the cohabitation pact and gender identity. The social dividend of 2016 and 2017 is given, there is active political and financial support from the Public Power Corporation in order to remain the main pillar of energy production in the country, reorientation of the previous, but also design of the current NSRP in a specific direction, where, not least, the European Commission yesterday said that we are champions once again in the absorbance of the NSRP, which seems to be not even recognized by a number of critics of Mr. Haritsis for supposedly sub-absorbing the issue of the Public Investment Programme. There is also an increase in research funds, which now touch a billion euros, but also an increase in budget appropriations for education by EUR 184 million this year, EUR 257 million last year, while in the period 2011-2014 the cumulative reduction in appropriations for education was about 34%. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] You will allow me, Mr President. I am not a very common speaker in this Chamber. Moreover, in the area of labour relations and the fight against unemployment for the first time, a policy is being implemented to strengthen workers' negotiating power, with the intensive and serious functioning of the Labour Inspectorate, which is now working against undeclared and undeclared work. I remind you that in 2015 undeclared and implied work had reached about 17%. We have managed in about two and a half years to drop undeclared work by four points to 13%. Also under the specific legislation of the Ministry of Labour in the summer, the worker was entitled to terminate the contract of employment, in the event of his contract not being paid, but also to claim these precisely on the issue of a payment order. I could widen the list by a lot and say a lot more. Sadly, time does not allow it. The substance, however, has already become clear. None of this would have happened if the major policy of 2015 had not been implemented. What is, really, today, the overall picture of the Greek economy and what does the current image of the Greek economy have to do with the colossal failure of 2010-2014? The numbers speak for themselves. Unemployment that tends for the first time under 20% after about ten years. Growth rates that for 2017 will be close to 2% and forecast for 2018 at 2.5%. Mostly, however, the fundamental sizes of the Greek economy, from economic confidence to export, to investment, to industrial production, are recovering steadily, while for the first time the income available and the average wages are showing to overthrow their long-term downward trend and return to positive soil. This means a reversal of the whole material and anti-galactic course, which was marked from 2010 to 2015. The main indicator, however, which allows us to be sure of the successful completion of the programme, is none other than the interest rates on Greek bonds. And that, you know, is not a technical issue, because the bond rate is nothing but the mathematical expression of the risk for an economy. What does that marker say, this mathematical expression of danger? It says that the ten-year bond has broken the 4% threshold, while the five-year bond reached the end of last week close to 3%. This means that the self-powered exit into the markets and the recovery of the country's economic and political sovereignty is not just a fantasy or desire, as it was in 2014, but an absolutely feasible, successful goal. And he's successful because today nothing looks like the 2014 borderline. This is the third consecutive year that we achieve the programme's budgetary objectives and because we have a milder budget adjustment. At the same time, we are creating, as the Deputy Minister of Finance said yesterday, a financial pillow to support our exit to the markets, and we also have a positive and concrete debt agreement, according to which the gross financial needs of the Greek public should not exceed 15% of GDP from 2018 onwards. This, a propos, completely breaks down the argument, which some from ignorance repeat from New Democracy, that over-excession means that there is no need to adjust the Greek debt. Because the Greek debt regulation no longer concerns the ratio of debt to GDP, but the Greek economy's overall financial capacity, namely, that debt payments or refinances should not exceed 15% of GDP. I would therefore ask colleagues from New Democracy to stop repeating this argument, because it is an absolute mathematical absurdum what they are doing. The consequences of PSI are also achieved. Yesterday Mr Venizelos told us that, supposedly, we are continuing the PSI policy. If Mr. Venizelos did not understand, PSI's policy was terminated 15 days ago, when the Greek bond exchange was completed, which turned the PSI's non-standard bonds, which were impossible to negotiate on the money markets, into formal bonds. And that is the technical reason behind the political reason behind the recovery of confidence in the Greek economy, which today we see the interest rates of Greek bonds moving in this direction. Of course, this debt agreement, but also everything we do with regard to the remodeling of the soil, so that we can fully recover market confidence by August 2018, should be further specified. However, the water has entered the groove. So the way out of the program is ahead of us and it's visible. And that brings us to the second argument - latent - of counterpopulation. What do they claim? They claim that there is no exit in 2018, as the memos will stay with us until the sun or, in any case, until 75% of the loans we have received from the official sector are paid. This, of course, did not apply to Opposition for some reason in 2014, now. In any case, let us leave this part of the argument and move on to the point. What's the Memorandum? It is nothing but a stubborn mechanism, a technology to enforce policies that operates in a specific and very simple way: measures against debt repayment, because otherwise, because there is no market access, the economy will go bankrupt. That's the memos. That's the technology of dying. Why was this technology imposed? Because it was simply not possible for the country to borrow from the markets from 2010 onwards. Therefore, for anyone who wants and who can understand, it goes without saying that the degrees of civil liberties are increased as soon as they are detached from this particular mechanism. Because the policies imposed now do not have the same degree of compelling, as the risk of bankruptcy has gone away and there is no direct way of coercion. There is no forced disbursement of the dose. Obviously this does not mean that there is no supervision and that there is no surveillance. That doesn't mean a government can do whatever it wants. First of all, the markets actually impose certain disciplines on the economies of developed capitalism. However, the euro area surveillance mechanisms also continue to work. In no case, however, are we talking about the same status of a company and the same status of a committee. In this period that is inaugurated after the summer of 2018 - and here I am ending - the differences in politics and social separatist lines, which are already clear, will begin to appear with even greater openness. It is then that the two political projects that are conflicting today will be confronted in an even clearer and clearer way. On the one hand, it is the plan of the New Democracy and its satellites, which want us to return to a full-scale economy of budgetary and employers' arbitrariness and immunity. It is a political'shock and awe' programme, which is summarised in a specific four-tier: redundancies, sales, the destruction of the social state and a reduction in wages, so as to create supposedly incentives for investment. This is the pure logic of 'Thaceism', which today governs the entire ideological and political contours of the New Democracy. On the other hand, there is our plan, which wants to focus on work and redistribution to support the social state. We are talking about two worlds, which do not have - and thankfully! - nothing in common. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u47	We proceed with the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Representative, Mr. Pappas. Here, Mr. Pappa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u48	The reason for this is the Armed Forces. From 2010 to today, the situation is constantly and dramatically deteriorating regarding the operational planning and budgets of all General Staff. The government, in addition to the cuts in the defence budget, has abandoned the intellectual potential on which the national defence is based. In detail, all the bills - the insurance, the pension and the salary of the Armed Forces - which have been voted for here in plenary, by all the Memorandum Governments, are constantly reducing the financial situation of all three Arms, such as - supplementing - both the Security Bodies and the Port and Firefighting. And these executives - the Greek people know very well - give a superhuman struggle every day to stand up to their mission, when the Turks continue their provocative and intransigent attitude, culminating in the recent visit of Erdogan. At a time when the Greek side is in a protracted lethargy, Turkey is constantly equipped and diversely, strengthening its weapon systems in all three branches of the Armed Forces. Defensive spending annually exceeded EUR 7 billion. We have now arrived at only EUR 475 million. Do you want to make cuts in expenditure and streamlining? Is this going to be at the expense of even the armiesmen and officers of the Armed Forces? Will this also be done at the expense of the gunmen's food? And we ask: what about the special wage bills? What about the military dues? What about the 108m euros that had to be cut off from the special wage bills? You once spoke about equivalents that had to be found, so that wage promotions would not freeze from 1-1-2017. What are you going to do about the military pensions? The military and pensioners of the Security Councils, in particular those with several years of service, are expected to have a reduction between old and new pensions. And within this you have also devalued the Greek defence industry. And within this you are giving millions of euros for the reception centres of illegal immigrants. Money is therefore available to the Armed Forces for Illegal Immigrants and money is there for this job as it turns out. Also, what about the issues of long-term volunteers? With the payment of the frontier allowance, what are you going to do? Apart from numbers, however, it is important to support materials and morally the executives of our Armed Forces. To rely on all levels, because they are based on the national defence and the integrity of our country. Of course, you, the government, all you care about is the surplus. Yes, indeed, the country with government of SYRIZA - ANEL produces surpluses, surplus of anarchist trabucism, surplus of state coarseness and anaesthesia, surplus of journalistic flaws, surplus of hotels and surplus of communist betrayal.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u49	We proceed with the parliamentary representative of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR, Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u50	Mr President, I think I have heard, perhaps apart from all the ministers' speeches, the overwhelmingly more from here and some from my office. In most cases these speeches of Ministers reminded me of the government's planning statements. Few people have linked their duty, their subject matter to their money, to be a debate in which we hear ministers speak of budgets. We're not in the programming phase. We are in the process of getting rid of this government, the turf of the persecutors. But, last night, from some point on, from the inconsistency of Tsakalotus and then, with what he said, and today we hear ministers who have in their speech include - 80% or 90% of it - courage, arrogance, collages, ravage and mud, attack against justice and no words in a positive direction for sweating previous governments - and they want partnerships and dilemmas - and they claim they are not just doing very well, but from perfect and above. For the attack on justice, which in this Chamber was heard yesterday, and the mud that was launched with the applause of the Members of the Chamber, I have to say this: we have nothing but supreme court rulings, which concern no judges, but all the Greeks and all the Greeks, who have an obligation to testify 'from the outset' on matters relating to criteria which the government has set and which must change. We have not seen the decision, we do not know exactly what we are reading, and from what the ministers say, we understand that it is a decision or two decisions which concern everyone and which raise issues of the constitutionality of the criteria set by the government and which can change them. There is no refusal 'from you'. However, the mud of the ambiguous argument, which another does not understand and which the Prime Minister of such arguments has moved, is that the judges do not wish to testify 'from where they stand', while they are the first to testify 'from where they stand'. Secondly, the previous Minister for the Press and Other Affairs has not answered today the specific question I raised to him yesterday. Well, from a perfect and up-to-date government does it, as the government tells us. For the hundred and twenty-workers on 9,84, committed by their salary bill on Christmas Eve, will something be done? People's friends, workers' friends, as they self-baptize, prove to be friends in this Chamber of other matters, but not of the workers. Everything's going well, except for people. For them, he did not devote a second to his speech today, and last night he told us about a subject he had from the day before yesterday that it was a matter of another institution, an independent authority, and the government is just a friend of the workers. Is he gonna do something? The days are over. We're going to Christmas. Will they at least release the payroll account of the workers of 9,84 or, because we do not like the radio, let their workers shut down and starve? One more argument. An unsubstantiated Minister said yesterday that out of the memorials. No preconditions. PPC? The auctions for which you need to table rules to protect the auction procedure? The work, which, as the JRC says, is like a thief, you go and bring in and you withdraw amendments, aren't these prerequisites? What's this? Finally, in particular for the auctions. Excuse me, you were here, ladies of the majority, and you applauded Mr Stathakis in 2016 when he said that for every first residence that is pre-indicated or has been put as a mortgage for housing, for consumer, for business loan, protection ends on December 31st 2017. And because for so far, protection was in place in 93% of cases, as he said, you applauded him. Now you're going to intervene, as your MPs tell you? These MPs, who this year discover these, why were they applauding you? Ladies and gentlemen, it's sad, but that's the way it is. The executives of a government, which is currently and yesterday, are officials of a government that failed to fulfil any declaration and any objective it had set itself. I close with a phrase: it's time to fall and reverse T. S. Elliott, I want to say you won't leave with a puff. You will flee, because this is the will of the Greek people, which has already been formed. It is complete the lack of harmonisation of the composition of this Parliament with the will of the Greek people and it will be reflected in a way that will be an unpleasant surprise to you in the call to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u51	The Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks Mr Papachristopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. The late Manos Katrakis also had a flaw, playing cards. At some point, who had lost a huge sum, he went and ordered a spaghetti, with a lot of dignity, with a little laugh, without altering anything from his personality. He had lost enough money. The girl asks him: "But, Mr. Katraki, does it not affect you the fact that you have lost so much money?" So the late Katrakis responds to her that "a man, if you want to judge him, will judge him at the time he loses, when he moves the ground under his feet". I say it because I hear the same thing again. What have we heard in this Chamber for three years now: What Grexit, who hasn't come. What a parentheses he didn't come. What an early election they didn't come. Floods, swallows, fires, floods, spots! Everything's been confiscated. Nothing. Some who think they have a unique qualification - not second, because we all make mistakes - are honest. Forgive me for expressing me. It's not populism. They pulled a line. And I believe your power gives you honesty. If what you're doing, you'll convince. Today, then, the people of exaggerated, blind opposition and largely opposition hysteria, even today when HANDELSBLATT, the Wall Street Journal, Dombrovskis, all are now provoking that Greece is doing well. Even "FOCUS", the one with the strange gesture - not to do it again - writes good words about the Greek economy anymore. Some people worked for it. And I would like to say that there may be no previous Prime Minister who has accepted a slandering slandering slander from morning to night, distortion, inaccurateness and has stood up. More recent examples were auctions, floods down in Mandra. I would like here to call on a politician I appreciate and to be my opponent. So, at the recent conference, one of these politicians said that 'if you do not preserve social cohesion, and that is only when you deal with the weakest social classes, you have no hope of survival'. Find out who he is. I don't want to stick around with anyone. I think it was a wise conversation over and out of hysteria and the rest. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I think it is my duty, if the President will allow me, to say two words that I steal from the Deputy Minister for Development, Mr Haritsis. At the moment that we are talking in 2017 from European and national resources have entered 8 billion. No one can question it. Projects amounting to 7 billion are currently being launched to renew 20 billion. They sound a little weird, but that's the truth. I also want to say, by stealing Mr Haritsis - I steal him, it's okay - but I say it: First of all, the absorption of the NSRF funds. I've got the whole directory here. Let's see him. Seconds to the absorbing of a Junker pack. Use all European funds. Road axes didn't become random. Reform of primary health did not become accidental. The creation of a hundred and eight thousand new positions at the children’s stations was not random. Increase the national programme of public investment. It was over 1 billion and will reach 1.5 billion in 2019. They were directed to the Greek economy by the European Investment Bank of 2 billion. And I'm telling you very little of that. I've got a list here of twelve majesties. Because we hear it from morning to night that the center of Athens is dangerous. It appears that those who are investing in "King George", to rebuild "Hilton", to build "Chandris", "Metropolitan" and 12 other five, have another view. It's a center of Athens. I would like to end by saying that the 315 million who took over a million pensioners, whom we owed. A tip in 1.4 billion in over a million and a half citizens. A tip of EUR 760,000 in seven hundred thousand beneficiaries. Kissing 400 euros, 650 euros. I am not one of those who triumph or believe in subsidies policy. Unemployment may have fallen by seven points, but it has to fall further. And it'll fall. I spoke about investment, to come to say this: it is indicative that two hundred families, for whom you worked uninterruptedly forty years, collected money that was taken to offshore and abroad. I have here the paper on 'DIE WELT', which I will always show you. In February 2015 why don't you tax the 800 billion euros that are in foreign banks, offshore and economic heavens?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u53	Why don't you tax them now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u54	I say it is indicative of this: this government, what is left over, does not let five, ten pocket it. He turns it around and splits it. No, no one triumphs about it. It is, however, the characteristic of a new era, which the country has entered into e-government - no matter how many people do not admit it - and something really changes in Greek society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u55	The SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, Mr Mandas, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, the 2018 budget will be voted on this evening. Opposition and, in particular, Critical Opposition - in my opinion - suffers a strategic defeat in the economy. It cannot present a credible alternative. Recently in the "Eventors' Newspaper" journalist Tasos Tsakiroglou posted a small article entitled "We finally tolerate the revelations". [[Noise in the Chamber]] Can you, ladies and gentlemen, please do a little quiet so I can go on? I can't finish my thoughts.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u57	Please, be quiet, because the speaker cannot be heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u58	There it reminds us that in the very interesting book of French sociologist Pierre Rozavalon, which is signed "The Equivalent Society" mentions clergyman Jacques Benin Bocier, who said the famous: "God laughs at the people who complain about the consequences while they love the causes." That is exactly what is happening with the New Democracy in particular. She is mourning about the consequences, but she loves the causes, because she is firmly committed to the dogmas of extremist neoliberalism. In the development of the debate, the New Democracy in particular - and some with particular fanaticism - tried to cultivate the myth that this government is consciously impoverishing the vast majority of the people in order to depend on it as an electoral client. There's no bigger lie than that, in all its dimensions. And I say it why? I will just say one reason: Behind this is the abstention of Officerial Opposition in particular to build a social state with real structures, a social state standing on its feet. Just this is behind this myth trying to cultivate. And this myth has been degraded and with too many speeches. Mrs Fotiou also mentioned what has happened to what they say'medium-class' in the years before the previous two memoranda. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will need one and a half more minutes, Mr President. Furthermore, in the course of the debate, unfortunately, a systematic distortion has continued from many aspects of counter-population. I no longer call it ignorance, I call it'systemic distortion'. Example: They are talking about a reduction in the social budget. How many times in this Chamber we have said that the social dividend that we give in 2017 is not being transferred, cannot be entered again in the 2018 budget. There, perseverance! However, public debate and public controversy cannot go ahead. Secondly, the reference to the medium-term in balancing interventions in a systematic way is forgotten. I reminded her yesterday, reading page 61 of the medium-term, about exactly what the medium-term we voted on. Third: absorption. The general rapporteur of the New Democracy, since yesterday Mr. Haritsis had presented where Greece lies in the absorption of the NRP funds, said again about the issues of the absorption of the NRP. And finally, developments in relation to PPC. Yesterday, I think that Mr Stathakis fully supported the argument that PPC is falling apart, saying that it cannot be said that such an organisation - which, in any case, will be a strategic pillar - will, when it has revenues of 1.2 billion, collapse. On the issues related to 2014 - which was an issue that was debated very much here and how things evolved - I think the Minister of State tried and referred to. But what was the nuclear issue? I want to repeat it, if you'll excuse me. With the 2014- spring forecast, I do not remember exactly the month - the Samara Government - Venizelos proceeded with the granting of a social dividend, as you would say otherwise. With prediction and not at the end, as we did. Also, since the summer of 2014, we actually all know very well that he left the program. That is why the second exit attempt failed in August. And from there on, when these political groups now realised that the thing is not going towards the closure of the programme, they designed - and that is the truth - the 'left parenthesis'. They have not come out and today they are lyssing, in any way they have to throw the government down and fail. One failure succeeds the other.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Mada, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u60	Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we must be aware that the next time is very difficult and it takes a lot of work to get to August 2018, but mostly afterwards. I am sure that our Government and all of us, who support the government, which has fought in very difficult conditions, are fully aware of these difficulties and I think we can finally get the country out of the budget programme and society to stand up. We have too many things to do in the next few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u61	Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, Mr Christos Stakouras, has been speaking for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u62	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, I am pleased that you have admitted - because many of your colleagues are not aware of it - that for the first time a social dividend was paid in 2014. It must be stopped by this parafiscality, that for the first time social dividends were given in 2016. Secondly, I would like to say that I am very pleased It was right in 2014 with income, assets, with particular care, as you did not, to the long-term unemployed and without having to send degrading letters. In conclusion, I would like to sum up some of the points made on the budget, documentaryly. The government has failed to provide for growth, since economic growth will be 40% lower than the target, expanding the gap from the rest of Europe. I'll testify the painting in the Minutes. The Government failed to implement the Public Investment Programme. I'm going to put this in the Minutes too. I stress that it is expenditure with a high growth multiplier. The government failed to reduce tax evasion. I will submit a document from the European Commission, which says that the increase in indirect taxes has widened the loss of VAT revenue, i.e. increased tax evasion. The government has failed to strengthen liquidity in the economy - I will also present this in the Minutes - since the government's overdue debts today that we are talking about are 13% higher than in 2014. The Government failed to implement structural changes as, according to an OECD report, the reform benchmark fell by thirty percentage points over the last two years from 2013 to 2014. The government has failed to strengthen the competitiveness of the economy - I will table this in the Minutes too - as all the recent studies in this regard confirm. The government failed to integrate the country into the programme of quantitative relaxation. The government has failed to completely remove capital restrictions, which it itself imposed on its policy. The government failed to get the country out of the memorials, having committed itself and having committed the country to monumental policies, and after 2018 and high primary surpluses for many years. It is true, however, that the government has achieved two objectives. It has achieved the budgetary objective, and indeed with considerable overrun. This, however, is mainly due to the ruthless tax and insurance on the part of the citizens, the forced recovery measures in one million of our compatriots and the expanded internal attitude of payments, by shrinking the rate of economic growth, as Mr Philis said yesterday, and by inflating private debt. Proof of the exhaustion of the citizens' burden-sharing capacity is what I will testify to in the Minutes. The dues of private individuals to taxation and insurance funds are now more than EUR 130 billion, 50% higher than the end of 2014. Also, the government has achieved something else. He succeeded in making the poor the poorer and more. In 2018, the further increase of indirect taxes, the reduction of the EKT, the reduction of the heating allowance, the reduction of the tax deduction for medical services, the recent cuts in pensions and family allowances, the additional charges on insurance contributions will dismantle the middle-class, bring even more burdens to the weak and level society. In conclusion, this is a budget of tax-centered austerity, anti-developmental, economically ineffective and socially unfair, a budget in which the government's strategic, political and ideological dead ends are reflected, dead-ends from the "carabina" contradictions and great cynicities, with the continuous and continued adoption of monumental policies without'red lines', without moral suspensions, without ideological coordinates. Otherwise, the government shows courage and arrogantness. The New Democracy with its historically justified ideological and political core, that of social and radical liberalism, demonstrating realism, rationalisation, measure and moderation, believes in another economic policy, by simplifying and stabilising tax legislation, by gradually reducing taxation, by implementing reforms, emphasising constitutional reform, by improving the quality of public administration, by strengthening liquidity in the real economy and by adopting an integrated strategy for changing the productive model of the economy. This policy will soon be implemented in the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, my colleague. The Minister of Interior, Mr. Skourletis, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are undoubtedly moving towards a new phase for the Greek economy and the Greek society, despite the fresh wounds in the body of Greek society, open to many of them, despite the problems in the economy, despite the undeniable stabilisation and relocation of several aspects of everyday life and life in our country. I think that, in any case, in the coming months, what one might agree is that we are going through a surveillance exercise from the strict comitology. This is not just about developments in our country. It is inextricably linked to what is happening in Europe, to the correlations, to the great dilemmas, to the political processes in Europe today. And I think that when he talks about his country he should have a reference to what is happening in the European context too. I think that the new field of political controversy in the coming months will be mainly in how, after what the country has been through, we will be able to outline, design the new production model, with questions that require a clear political response: Development for whom, in what way? It will be there, I think, that the policy proposals of the political forces will be taken into account. The policy implemented these years, from 2015 onwards, is well known to be within the framework of the agreement that we made in 2015: coercive, compromises, supreme correlations, negotiation, defeat, profits of small or large, a contradictory path that one cannot deny. I think that the comparison - and I refer to you, Mr Staikoura, which you have tabled - always leads to the same conclusion. What the Greek society lost, and especially the world of work from 2010 to 2015, are not compared to the losses or small profits it had in some cases during the period of our own governance. 25% of GDP has not been lost in SYRIZA days. Unemployment has not ejected to post-war heights in SYRIZA days. You know that. There's not so much business closed down. They didn't emigrate so many young scientists. This is what I think they are not entertained with anything, as many paintings as we can read them. In this context, therefore, I would like to distinguish some things which make the big difference understandable. Let's assume you continued after 2014. Really what would have happened to health? I say it for health, because in health it is a sad example, a tangible sign of writing this government. In very difficult times, in a budgetary narrow-minded manner without prior it has managed and re-established the health system on its feet, and with priority appointments, and with cost-cutting, but mainly by covering two and a half million insecure citizens. This is not written down by anything. This is a worthy issue, it is a priority, it is an identifiable issue, it is what you will never do. Because, you have shown what you will do immediately when you had everything broken up by Mr. Adonidos Georgiades' office. Go and talk to patients, civilians, doctors, to testify to you. I guess you don't just go to private hospitals, but have contact with public hospitals to tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u65	As long as they have commanders.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u66	Yes, over the past six months, for three different reasons, I have been here and I could refer to what, but I do not want to spend my time. If you want, come then I'll tell you. We have succeeded in a rapidly changing energy market, where they come up below, to give another sample of writing, ensuring the public character of the networks, by listening to other European countries for the Greek way of opening up the market. I am referring to the example of IPTO, where, while there was a strategic alliance with an energy colossus of a Chinese company, the public character remains. These are what you, as I found out from the attendants' replies to this questionnaire that you distributed at your last conference, you want to deal with another way. In fact, you were saying - and I would say that this is worth repeating, making your flag - that waste in the Ottawas should be taken on private property, that social security should be abolished and that it should be equated with private insurance, that the public should shrink, that public goods are not of interest to us. These are your flags, this is your ID, this is your new programming proposal for this from now on. Ladies and gentlemen, the way I tried before, in the few minutes I had, to present what had been done so far shows our relationship with the programme being implemented. That is why we have never claimed the paternity of the program. That's why we talked about contradictions. That's why we talked about difficult conditions, coercion and attempting to create conditions that can, from now on, make us get rid of a series of sensible ones. I am not only referring to the necessary restrictive budgetary policies that are necessary to catch up with the objectives, but also to the Memorandumic logic, as is attempting to focus on the way in which the state, the economy and society are organised. In our time we were able to do a lot of things in the field of self-government. We have been able in these difficult circumstances to respond, in a fairly adequate manner, to requests from municipalities, in relation to damages caused by natural disasters. It is very specific that the figures, figures and amounts that came out of the Public Investment Programme and were directed in this area to respond to these situations. Mostly through this allocated budget, we are doing our commitment last year to the same day. This year's budget for local government provides for a small, but evident, qualitative and quantitative increase in the amounts allocated to local government of 5%. At the same time, over and above what was spent through last year's budget, we were able to make targeted contributions to the small islands and mountain municipalities. Through the extraordinary grant, which we will repeat again this year, we have been able to give personal protection to contractors and not only to workers who were in an indefinite employment relationship, but we have also extended to those who were heavy and unhealthy, we have signed, for the first time since 2009, a special collective agreement, and in particular we have put in place the grand competition for permanent jobs, more than eight and a half thousands of jobs, for local government. It's a competition that you in every way undermined, tried not to get in the way, you tried to have fun. In fact, you told us that this attempt would fall into the void. Today this effort has become in its final straight. I would like, however, here on this point, to refer a little to the JRC colleagues. You were misunderstood the day before yesterday, because I said that the gathering you did, a gathering not of protests, such as those you usually do - well done, and we have participated in and are constitutionally guaranteed, the protest - but a gathering that wanted to cancel a debate and you called it a "fiest". Why is he a fiesta? When for the first time half of the Ministerial Council is going to the heart of the people's western Attica, sitting for two days, talking with institutions, with ordinary people and talking about highlighting the problems that have been created for decades, is this a reality? Is this dialogue bothering you? And isn't it perfect to collect three coaches, unfamiliar students and trade unions from all over Greece to come and understand the place? Have you ever done this in Samara settlement? Tell me about it. Tell me once you did this. Sometimes. Now I see there's a qualitatively upgraded relationship. And let me tell you something else. Can you tell me why your trade unionists, when they come to my office, tell me that the competition for permanent jobs needs to be cancelled? I don't understand that. This is where one needs to speak. It will either be permanent in cleanliness or support the hostage of the contractors or want individuals as they do here. These things I think are quite clear. You owe these answers not to us, especially to the world of work, you owe them these answers. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You didn't find anything to say...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u67	You got the answer yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u68	...on the subject of the collective agreement that was first signed since 2009. I say this because this is a political path that is slippery and isolates a historic force on the Left, particularly in relation to the reports she wants to have. Ladies and gentlemen, we were given the opportunity yesterday at the Western Attica conference and at all these regional conferences, essentially to highlight the sufferings of the past. We saw that this model of growth of strong Greece in 2003 and 2004 was making streams, building cities with the bogeyman of legality, indifferent to the environment, indifferent to the tragic consequences, because what happened in Mandra and elsewhere - fortunately not with so many victims - has, unfortunately, a political name that has the name of your own productive and development model of the previous decades, which only saw the profit without regard to any consequences. You are coming today to abdicate us and tell us about structural changes. Corruption changes, yes, but what are structural changes? Structural changes are what you have tried in the past, or what you are proposing now, that you even come now that we have the successful model of maintaining the public character of PPC's networks and you say that they should be privatised too. These structural changes, obviously, do not want them. These have another content, another perspective for things. I think we'll be able to chat exhaustively in the next period. And this new phase, in essence, will highlight the new differences. It will show all its greatness now, as the situation has stabilised, who eventually promises what in Greek society. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] The year that passed doubtless had a positive sign for local government and I think there are all the prerequisites. We will be given the opportunity to have this debate more comfortable on the basis of changes in its institutional context. There are all the conditions for 2018 to be even more positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theory of the Parliament, after having previously participated in the educational programme: "We are investigating and discussing Governor Ioannis Kapodistrias" who is organizing the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-six students and students and two educational attendants from the American College. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Pafilis, the JRC parliamentary representative, has asked for the floor to make an intervention. Here you go, Mr. Paphie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u70	I've got the three-minute, just like everybody else. It takes a lot of nerve, really space, I would say, to bring as a thief the night amendment and to abolish the right to strike, to support the work jungle and hell that exists in the factories and workplaces as a government, to have literally sent the world to Kaidas, to support with ten hands the big capital and to blame those who are trying and fighting and defending the interests of those who are crushed by this government, as are the previous ones. It takes a lot of nerve, when you're opposition, to concentrating - because you did - at parties gatherings - we never did at a party gathering - and accusing us, of blaming others...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u71	That's right!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u72	Get the credit!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u73	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u74	Stop, you'll find it. The Socialist International will be Tsipras now, you'll all be together, don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u75	Come on, Mr. Paphie, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u76	Mr. Constantinople, finally! I'm talking. SYRIZA's not talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u77	Please! Go on, Mr. Paphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u78	And I'm talking about a protest against the government. It was not a party, a government event, Mr. Skourletis says, which has a selective memory, that we never did at the government of Samaras. Are you serious? Don't you remember in the Ministry of Labour where there were seventy trade union arrests? How many times have they done such symbolic actions? It's not a master, but such symbolic actions are also taken. Why is it so bothering? Because fig leaves fall too? So I say he needs a lot of nerve. And I want to tell you again and repeat that we don't chew from that. Such attacks have also been carried out by PASOK and extremes, when PASOK was government, and by New Democracy much more along the historical route. Others were petty children, and they were approaching and collected, and I do not want to make any comment from now on, politically, I mean, co-government. And it's not a personal matter, it's a political matter. I'm not saying anything. And I say, then, that we are not going back to these, as a party. We will confront any government - whether it is yours or someone else - standing against the workers. That's what we're doing. And the Greek people know if we did, what mobilizations we did, how many we did, who we did them and who we gathered throughout the crisis. The Greek people know that, when we told him that the crisis was capitalist and that it was the system, you fooled him, as you are doing today, saying that they are the bubbles of the stock exchange, corruption, misasa, manager and there you entangled him. This is your big contribution, the biggest of all: you politically favour the radicalism that has been growing and growing today. We will fight, as we always know, next to the workers against those policies who condemn him to live like this, and we will reveal to him what the way he must choose. And this is the path of conflict, overthrowing and not subjection and class cooperation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr. Paphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u80	Mr President, please, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u81	What do you want, Mr. Skourlet just? You want the floor on staff? What's the problem?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u82	Mr President, I have a right to answer for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u83	You have the floor for a minute, Mr. Skourlet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u84	Thank you for your understanding. Mr Pafile, I do remember your controlled and careful protests. When the world went to Stadium, you were going from Piraeus to the memorial demonstrations at the time. I asked you four - five questions, but leave that now. Why don't you put yourself on specific things? The personal protection measures, which our government has for the first time extended to cleanliness contractors, are positive or not? If they're positive, tell Mr. Peletides who refuses to give them. What can we do? Expansion to heavy and unhealthy and other categories is positive? Yes or no? And something I forgot. I could report it. I said it before. About the simple analogue to local government, what do you say? Because what I heard from your representative at the EIA and the CSCE conference is - he says - is the alibi. Since when, then, democracy in the elections, the simple analogue, the most democratic electoral system is alibi? For what? So take a seat. Will you support her when she comes here? All the rest, let it go. They're talk of impressions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u85	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u86	Here you go, Mr. Paphie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u87	Anything that at least relieves workers and the people for a while and brings it either this or any other government we support. Whatever it is that relieves the people. And that everyone knows, and what we've voted for and what we don't have. At the same time, however, we also reveal mockery. I say that "you take his bread and give him a crumb." We supported any positive measures that helped workers. I do not know exactly how these issues have been formulated. Are you telling us about the simple analogue? Are you telling us about the simple analogue that we didn't support it? The bill you brought, which is 'thoughtless' proportional, we voted for it, and we would make it easier to break into two articles. Do you forget about this? But not as you want the simple analogue. Ordinaryly proportional and ending. It's one. The one you have been saying for so many years, as PASOK said, "the first law I will abolish will be the electorate and I will bring the simple analogy" and never brought it. So who are you addressing? Are you going to wash off with this for all the rest? What the squares did is known and what you and too many others played and what the Constitution made. It was the goldenies upstairs, and there were others down there. We tried through the movement. Ultimately, the games and provocations that were set up, as you know, are almost a hundred years old and we have learned to avoid them. If you guys wanted our backs to do what you did, we didn't allow it. If the world remembers, we can count - and I challenge you - how many people we had and how many others had.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u88	Five hundred thousand in the Constitution had...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u89	What five hundred thousand?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u90	Mr Ahtsoglou, Minister for Labour, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, the budget that we are debating today is the last budget for the memoranda. Written and will be passed by the Greek Parliament in a climate of recovery for the Greek economy. In recent times, all the main indicators have recorded a stable growth potential, a dynamism that month to month is being strengthened. The most important of all is the permanent and steady impairment of unemployment. It is more than six percentage points below where it was when this government received its work, i.e. it is about 20%. This is a budget for budgetary stability. It is now clear that, despite any restrictions, we are reliable and achieve the budgetary objectives we agree on in the adjustment programme. That is what we have done in the past two years, and that will happen in 2018. At the same time, I think that we have proved in a clear way in this third assessment, which is very quickly closed, that when we do not get artificial obstacles on the other hand we are able to quickly complete our assessment, we are not concerned about the Greek economy and society, but also about bringing some positive results, such as, for example, the over-privateship of workers in the event of bankruptcys, which will now be paid off first six months of workers in the face of any other requirement of creditors. First, the employees will be repaid for six months and then the rest of the creditors will follow. Also very important is the result of strengthening the social budget, strengthening the budget for social solidarity, with 315 million additional for 2018, which will lead to an increase in the budget for family allowances by about 260 million. This means that more than six hundred and fifty thousand families will see as much doubling the family allowance received by the families of the weakest economic strata in particular. Because I think we need to end once and for all this debate on where the surplus of 2017 comes from, which has been given in the form of social dividends and the return of money to pensioners, but also where the indicators for 2018 close, that is, how we achieve the targets for 2018, I say the following. To a very large extent, both the over-performance of 2017 and the achievement of the 2018 objectives is due to the very positive course of the social budget and, in particular, to the very positive course of the economics of the Single Social Security Agency. This is a positive overthrow of the Single Social Security Agency budget, allowing both 2017 and the achievement of the targets for 2018. Let me remind you that we received the public social security system with a deficit of EUR 1,100,000, more than three hundred thousand unpaid pensions in our drawers and all of this, after twelve successive pension cuts. It was a real miracle for the finances of the public social security system. The Unified Social Security Institution, when it started its operation in 2017, was budgeted to be a deficit of 750 million. Instead, 2017 closes with the Single Social Security Agency to have a surplus of more than 300 million. In other words, it is a positive overthrow of some 1 billion. Why is this positive overthrow, which is also reflected in 2018 data? This positive overthrow is not due to any exhaustive transfer, as the MPs of the Opposition and Officerial Response are arguing mainly. It is because of three main reasons. Firstly, there is the increase in employment, the reduction in unemployment. I would remind you that nothing has changed in relation to employee contributions from insurance reform. The positive overthrow is therefore because earnings from employees increased due to the decline in unemployment. Employees increased and revenue from their contributions increased. It is because of the better regulation of the debts in the insurance funds. This has also led to a repayment facility. It will be followed in the next few days and an even better adjustment of the debts to the insurance funds, with a hundred and twenty instalments. And it is because of the reduction in pension costs, not because we do not pay pensions, not because of a peculiar cessation of payments, which I heard yesterday was also called in the House, but because we did an intensive work to clear the register of outstandings at the Single Social Security Agency. In other words, we have seen what is outstanding applications for retirement and what is not and we are paying pensions more quickly, and no longer does pensions carry the weight of the retroactive sums they have had because they have been unpaid for a long time. If this were not the case, if these were not the reasons I described, in 2018 we should have borne pension costs, because we are committed to paying all the outstanding pensions by the summer of 2018. Instead, you see that both pension expenditure and 2018 are reduced, precisely because all this work has been done to clear up the dues and the register. So these are basically the numbers, how the numbers come out, how the numbers for 2017 came out, how the numbers for 2018 came out, mostly. The public social security system, therefore, for 2018, will have a surplus of 860 million, improved compared with 2017 by about 1 billion. We are putting rules into the system, paying late, closing back wounds, and today the public social security system is back on its feet. A few months ago, from this Step forward, on a question, I think of the Democratic Incorporation, which we were discussing on insurance and I was trying to argue again on the elements of the Single Social Security Agency and the inaccuracies written, I asked Members the following rhetorical question: Who does the creation of completely distorting impressions on the public social security system? The answer came a few days ago through another question, the New Democracy questionnaire for its conference. The questionnaire essentially says whether workers should be able to choose between the public social security system and private insurance bodies. I think it is quite obvious now and clearly who is serving to create distorting impressions about the public social security system.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u92	Please don't interrupt. Be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u93	We heard a criticism from the Qualified Opposition yesterday. It was a peculiar criticism from Mr. Brutsi. But I think that to a large extent Mr Venizelos was integrating this logic when he was speaking. He had a special reasoning with a determinism that he would be jealous of and Spinoza! What do you say, Mr. Chakaloto? He said: We may have reached the unemployment of 27% when we were government, but we had shaped the conditions to reduce it further, and we would have reduced it even further if SYRIZA did not come. The surpluses we had agreed were too high, but we had shaped the conditions to renegotiate them and would become lower if SYRIZA were not involved. The budget for social solidarity may have been half of what we are today, but we had designed the social income of solidarity and we would have given it better if SYRIZA had not intervened. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] A little more time, Mr President. It is indeed an interesting conception of historical time. But you know that the facts are stubborn and you will allow me to mention four of them. In 2011, Mr. Venizelos said in the mid-term programme of the government of Papandreou. ‘The government's policy mix aims to create from 2014 onwards primary surpluses of over 6%’. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, Minister Efi Ahtsoglou submits for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] In the second memorandum on government of Papademos he said: ‘The government has committed itself to achieving a primary surplus of general government of 4.5% of GDP by 2014’. I put this in the Minutes too. [[At this point, Minister Efi Ahtsoglou submits for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] In 2014, Samaras government said: “The primary surplus for 2016, 2017 and hence close to 4.5%.” I'm telling you, Mr. Brutsi, that he was yelling about me lying. I put this in the Minutes too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u94	Until when?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u95	If from 4.5. you remove 1.75 I know it's less. How about you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u96	Please, Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u97	The annual report - it is today - of 'ERGANI' for 2017 - is not here to listen unfortunately to me, Mr Brutsi - is talking about increasing employment from 2014 to 2017 by two hundred and ninety-three thousand fifty-eight jobs. I'm filing it in the Minutes. Of these, ninety-three thousand two hundred and fifty-eight new jobs are 63% full-time and 37% part-time. Between 2014 and 2017, full-time jobs increased by around 18%. I put it in the Minutes, so that all this parafiscality can end as to whether jobs are created or disappeared and how much is it and what it is, without assessing that the percentage of part-time jobs is indeed high and should be lower. [[At this point, the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Efi Ahtsoglou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned document which is in the archives of the Secretariat of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] So the facts are stubborn. The reduction in indicators is undeniable. And yet, we have said that we cannot talk about the success of the Greek labour market. Our attention is directed at young people and young people. In 2018, we plan to implement important programmes immediately to strengthen youth work. And because everyday life is demanding, and because the needs of people and children are pressing, we launched this campaign with a single youth solidarity allowance of EUR 400 for every young and young eighteen to twenty-four years - it concerns fifty-five thousand children - who are out of work, not in training, and do not receive an OAED allowance. The EUR 400, therefore, - which Mr Mitsotakis thinks is a tip - I believe they will be helped in their daily lives now that they will receive. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And Mr. Mitsotakis said the 400 euro tips. In 2012, by Act of the Ministerial Council, the underpaid wage, the minimum wage for young people under the age of twenty-five, was reduced by an act of the Ministerial Council to EUR 430 purely and is the EUR 400 one-off payment tip, but the EUR 430 paid for young people is not a tip, it was an act of logic! So things are getting better not by some peculiar prefecture, not by a mechanistic perception of historical time. Things get better because the country's political priority is changing. Because behind these many 'if' things, which I listened to yesterday and by Mr Venizelos, by Mr Brutsi, the actions matter. Political choices are important and have results. Nothing is done in itself and nothing is won in this country since the passive expectation of the European Union's charity. If something changes in this country is because despite the implementation of a tough fiscal adjustment programme, our Government has committed itself to all tons of all that will exhaust every possibility, every margin left by the Greek economy to improve the life and everyday life of the weak social strata. That's what we've done since the first moment, that's what we're doing today. This is proof of this: the distribution of the social dividend, which was received by more than three and a half million families in the country, and the financial support for young people, which will receive more than fifty-five thousand children, is an effective proof of this; the increase in the family allowance for families who need it, more than six hundred and fifty thousand families in the country, and the increased social budget that this House will be voting on today. Our care for the problems and the needs of the social majority, therefore, does not remain in the words, it does not "if", but we do it with all the potential, since we are honestly speaking about both the victories and our defeats, with all the possibilities that we can ensure with the aim of healing the wounds of the crisis. Because healing these wounds cannot wait to get out of the financial adjustment programme. It is a parallel effort with the course of exit from the crisis and will be even more dynamic and decisive after August 2018, when the government will take the country out of the surveillance regime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, fifty-two students and students and three educational sessions from the 3rd General High School Argos (first Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] At this point, ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we suspend the sitting and continue at 15.30 p.m. at the beginning of the speeches of the political leaders. The sitting is suspended.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u99	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is continuing. The speeches of the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups will be followed. Before giving the floor to the President of the River Parliamentary Group, Mr Theodorakis, let me make a statement. The Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: "Training measures for persons exempted from the penalty due to mental or mental disorder and other provisions". Mr Stavros Theodorakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u100	Let's start with the easy ones. The SYRIZA - ANLL bring to parliament a very heavy budget. Taxes, taxes, taxes. Taxes on those starting, taxes on those trying, taxes on those trying and on all others, on the unemployed, on the poor, on the weak. A strong dose of indirect taxes. Five billion more taxes than the 2015 taxes. Your aim, as you have said, is the great surpluses, while the economy and the country are drifting, opportunities are being lost and young people are leaving. Ladies and gentlemen, the aim of every sensible government and every society is to raise the pie, increase the wealth and share it with all citizens. You took the country at a favourable international juncture, with low oil prices, low euros, low interest rates, abundant liquidity on the financial markets, strong growth across Europe, and particularly favourable geopolitical conditions for tourism that drives the economy. And three years now you've been dragging us from misery to misery, with great losers, the first losers to the poor and the unemployed. It says the government: 'We have reduced unemployment'. The decline in unemployment has resulted from the break-up of EUR 700 jobs in positions of 350 euros. You say 'We give the poor money'. It's money, however, that you'll get back twice and three times with the arrogant indirect taxes. You say: 'Spreads are dropping'. They are being reduced, but they are being reduced because you stopped flirting with Greece leaving Europe. European leaders are encouraging you on your back, but European companies are already pulling our handkerchief. The "forwards" in Skouria, the protection of invisible forests in the Greek, the digital middle ages of Mr. Spirtzi and Mr. Liberopoulos, are not battles against certain bad investors. This is essentially a war of trenches to all potential investors. You have committed yourself to the institutions, to the lenders, that by August the demilitarisation of the Greek, ELPE, PEPA, Ennatia Road, PTH and PPC will be completed. At the same time, however, you are pushing out small and large investments, thus reducing growth. And to fill the gaps, you're putting extra taxes. Thus, it has emerged, so is the hunting of the middle-class with taxes and contributions. It is a class war - to use an older, friendly term - toward the middle class, the small and medium-sized, the backbone of the Greek economy and society. You, of course, have another point of view. You do not accept this "bone of the Greek economy". You say: 'Our voters do not have any statements', 'Our voters do not have any blocks'. We are therefore burdening others - the middle class, in this particular case - and whoever survives, survived! In the financial year 2018, ladies and gentlemen, the government budgets to draw taxes of EUR 48 billion from the economy. What's the limit? Where are we going to stop? In the next budget we will also tax the memories, because dreams have already been taxed and nightmares have become dreams, dreams of a normal life, hope for the saving of family business, entrepreneurship and expectation of a new beginning. The right to particu­larity, work, insurance has been burnt for many hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens and especially for young people who share - pay attention to the choices that young people have before them - between unemployment, black work and the underemployment of EUR 300. Looking back, of course, we will see that 10 years ago the Greek state collected taxes of EUR 48 billion. He received 48 billion euros at that time, 48 billion euros is now being collected. It could, of course, be wondered, "What is changing?" The 48 billion, however, were then drawn from a 230 billion-dollar economy, and today taxes of 48 billion are derived from an economy of 180 billion. We have lost 50 billion of GDP and we are calling for the same taxes. This is the country's problem, the small GDP. The small GDP and waste of the client state are today the big problems of the country. The waste of the party state, of course, comes from a long time ago. You inherited it and you just continue it. Three years, however, you are doing everything possible to keep the country's GDP down. The country's GDP could be much higher today if we had avoided the closure of banks, capital controls, the loss of deposits of 40 billion, the criminal behaviour of 2015. You have not, however, put a mind on the disasters of 2015. He didn't stay in the past like a bad memory in 2015. The refusal of reality, the policy of delays continued and in 2016, continued in 2017. "We're burned! We burned if the first evaluation was delayed until May!", Minister, in February 2016. That's exactly what Mr. Tsakalotos said in 2016. The assessment was closed in September 2016. "Better a good deal now than a better deal later," Mr. Juliarakis said in February. And the deal came in June. We need to know, however, that every month of delay, it is cut off from the country's GDP and it adds taxes to the taxpayer's back. It's the perfect vicious circle. Without confidence, ladies and gentlemen, there will never be growth. And without growth surpluses are necessarily built on taxes alone. He wondered the other day how the Minister of Economy would collect the surpluses his government guaranteed if he hadn't taxed. But with growth. The same tax rates with high GDP, with higher GDP, bring more revenue. Let's take a look at the map of southern Europe. Spain and Portugal had more revenue this year and achieved surpluses without having to increase taxes or taxation at all. Be careful, one particular element, because Portugal is a bit on top of the news. Portugal's GDP was 173 billion in 2014 and will be closed to 192 billion in 2017. It's an increase of about 11%. Similarly, Spain had an increase of around 12% at the same time. We, 178 billion in 2014, 178 billion in 2017. And today Lisbon - you will have learned - paid the last one billion euros that it owed to the IMF and which it would normally have to pay in 2021. But to free itself from the bonds - that means 'liberation from bonds' - he paid this 1 billion dollars four years earlier. Well, development. This is the fair way to increase revenue without taxing citizens. The government is now sharing some rest with those in need, but it has received multiple taxes on coffee, beer, telephone, television, gasoline, heating oil and all kinds of first need through increased VAT. Ladies and gentlemen, the objective of development was dramatically lagging behind in 2017. It was 2.7% reminder and we'll catch half. I fear that the corresponding delay - and I am afraid of it - will also be recorded in 2018. The government, unable to work for growth, will continue to redistribute poverty, misery and taxes and warfare - be careful, go to the other side of the problem - within a waste of a party state. I don't know if you've noticed some of the budget elements. The general secretariats of the Prime Minister and the Ministers of Maximus - which, glory of God and Marx, are now four - will cost us some ten million. Is it controlled by bodies managing public money? The report of the Directorate-General for Budgetary Control shows - it is in the budget - that one of the two bodies audited in 2017 presents gaps in its financial management. Do you know what the most impressive, ladies and gentlemen, is? That even when this problem was found, i.e. irregularities, and after suggestions were made to operators, only one out of three of the bodies that received the suggestions complied. This is one of the problems of the waste party state. It comes just the day before yesterday, SYRIZA's economic policy officer - I think this is his typical title - and he tells us - that the state is losing 15 billion every year from smuggling tobacco, fuel, beverage, tax evasion and corruption. Apart from the obvious question you have asked about these, Mr Alexiadis, which you have had for months - and I think for years - the formal responsibility for all of this, there is a greater question to the Government of the SYRIZA - ANEL: Who is, then, protecting the oil, tobacco and big taxmen? We are asked by some colleagues, many times well-meaning, many times poorer, where the state can cut money, from where the state can cut costs. We are constantly giving new examples of the great waste. You'll know. It's written, it's photographed, it's commented. In Tibet, the state still pays 6 million euros a year for eighty thousand square meters and eighty employees, that is, one acre per civil servant. The 2017 budget shows an increase of more than half a billion for expenditure mainly on consumer and staff mobility costs. I imagine that these are the extra needs of some of the ministers in the luxury hotels and casinos abroad. Let us now come to the notorious clean exit from the memorandum in August 2018. It is - to use another phrase that has entered into our political terminology - the new big SYRIZA Fake News - ANEL. After we have accepted - to be more precise - the requirement of creditors for the supreme democracies, having committed SYRIZA - ANLE to commit state property to ninety-nine years, since the banks were torpedoed - I recall that in the midst of the crisis the total capitalisation of banks has exceeded 30 billion and now is less than 8 billion - since we have accepted additional measures of 2% of GDP, one from the reduction in pensions in 2019 and another from a reduction in tax in 2020, having signed up to 3.5% of GDP by 2023 and at least 2% by 2060, they are now saying that after all that we can get out of the memorandum, of course, we will give reasons to our lenders until we have paid 75% of European loans. Really - to alleviate the atmosphere a little - where are these EUR 7 billion going to be a primary surplus in the budget for 2018? Where are they going? To say this with the old language of SYRIZA - ANEL, the EUR 7 billion will go to serve an illegal, unlawful, - you said both words and illegal and unlawful -, lame, shameful unsustainable debt. And all of this today is not imposed by the german gypsies or, at any rate, by the adorables of Europe's powerful people, but by Mr Tsakalotos, who, among others, saw him rejoice too much to be invited to hit the hammer on Wall Street. Indeed, Minister, we have not seen you more smiling, happier, more impressed and finally happier - we usually see you very stunning in the House - since you hit the hammer on Wall Street. In fact, if we knew this a long time ago that this would thank you very much, we should have organized a tour to the temple of capitalism, leaving you as well as this repulsive one that I think we paid very expensively in many areas. [[Applause from the wings of the river and the Democratic Alliance PASOK - DIMAR]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that this budget cannot have the approval of our movement. Potami will insist on studying and promoting modern solutions, not the solutions that have the approval of the guilds, not the solutions imposed by the party mechanisms, not the solutions that support the interests of the ladders. Potami - and the Change Movement we are building these days - wants to liberate the creative forces of society, wants to support all those who are pushed to the margin, wants to solve the hands of those who have never been given anything to them. Greece can have a great future, as long as it leaves the hands of the populists, conservatives, ideoleptics and ultimately the amoralists of politics and power. This is the objective and this is the responsibility, initially of the progressive citizens, who now see the truth in front of them, but then the genuinely progressive policies of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u101	Mr Vassilis Leventis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u102	It is customary for Mr. Mitsotakis when Vasilis Leventis comes up in Step. I hope he doesn't need me alone, because if he needs me, I'll go away. These go on loan, you know!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u103	Please, be quiet. Go on, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u104	When I met Mr. Mitsotakis, ladies and gentlemen, five to six months ago, because he recognised before me that his father was a protagonist in apostasy, which threw a government of 54%, I went out and said out that I met a mature Mitsotakis, a Mitsotakis quite better than I expected him. Others went out and said Leventis and Mitsotakis are now going to cooperate. No, I just thought it was an act of bravery for his son to recognize his father's father's mistake in the 1965 apostasy. Because there is such a lack of apologies in Greece, such a lack of recognition of mistakes, there is, in general, such a shame, which is all infallible in this Chamber. In any case, for Mr Mitsotakis, I have to say that he is counting on all his efforts to get the government on bonuses, namely the fifty-seat bonuses that this electoral law gives. That's where he bases his effort. If there is a referendum a little before the elections, and the Greek people want to go out with 65% - I know that they want, because I have also carried out investigations and I know that 65% of the Greek people want the simple analogue - Mr Mitsotakis should also leave the Head of the New Democracy, because staying the Chief when the people have expressed themselves in favour of mere analogy, and he deals with self-reliance, it means that he is out of place and time. I think so. Isn't it? And Meimarakis when did he leave the New Democracy Chief? When he lost the referendum. He was proclaiming 'yes' and he went out 'no'. Was it possible for him to stay? The proceedings have been opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u105	After the elections. You're confusing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u106	That's right. I'm telling you, gentlemen, there's a little brain there. The Greek people can express themselves in a referendum that they want simple analogues. You base it all on returning self-powered or even with a partner like PASOK. What else? There's no one else to give you a vote in here. Is there anyone else to give you a vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u107	SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u108	SYRIZA? Okay, if you make a big coalition, this will be another matter and it will be for the benefit of the country, if this kind of step is taken. If such a step is taken in this place, instead of finding each other "supposing" the two - supposedly - big of politics and putting down the nose and egoism and building a universal government, this is another issue, which means progress of institutions, which means a lot of things goes for the better. I believe, however, that Mr Mitsotakis, if a referendum is held along with some questions about the Constitution and about the simple analogue, and this referendum on the New Democracy is lost, he will have no reason to be the Head of the New Democracy. He's got to pack it up. That's why I told him at the date we had that it must be a new Chief not to choose systems but to try within the context of the conciliations. When you choose systems, if it doesn't come out, you lose your career, you lose everything. I believe that that is where we will finally come to a referendum a little before the elections. That's my conviction. Mr. Tsipras has no other solution. Now, regarding the budget we are debating, this budget is the same as the previous budgets of George Papandreou, Samaras, Tsipras. I was listening yesterday to the argument between Mr. Venizelos and Mr. Tsakalotou. You will allow me, Minister, to tell you that your phrase to Mr Venizelos too, telling him that 'you are a loser' was inappropriate. It is inappropriate in this Chamber to say the other loser, and then he told you - I think - to unravel. You both didn't respect the space you were talking about. You have expressed the view now that we are going to go better, which we will see as a matter of urgency. Mr. Venizelos thought he was the one who made it better. I think you're both soaked up. You both were right, but not in the characterizations. The designations are unsatisfactory for this Chamber. Now, indeed, some money is being deducted from the budget. So it's not a budget he's giving, it's a budget he gets when some money is being deducted, isn't it? Big plays have stopped. We try to cut wages and pensions and impose taxes to survive. We've been surviving for eight years like this. How long can we survive like this? Should it be ten years? The Greeks will die. We must respect the world outside in the squares, in the villages, in the cities. The world can't stand it. Didn't you hear that? We cannot afford to cut wages and pensions and impose all new taxes. Is there anything else going on in this place for eight years? If anything else happens and I haven't heard, say it. Now you in here all year round consumed him to whose fault it was. You're saying it's Tsipras and Tsipras that it's your fault, a smack of who's to blame. Is that a solution? Oh, no. What do I think of as Vassilis Leventis, you want me to tell you? Crime has been committed since 2009. A government of two hundred thirty, two hundred forty Members had to be formed. Then Giorgakis made the mistake and started running into Kin and Russians, pleading for money, ate valuable time. Then came Venizelos with Samaras, who started cutting pensions, wages and saying: "We'll get better, we'll get out of the memorials," but in the meantime they cut the world. Their mistake is they made government. They made a government with Venizelos and made a government give SYRIZA, first, to grow up, taking their damage and, second, to this Chamber half the traitors say the other half. If this government had not become a Samara - Venizelos in May 2012 and real efforts were made for a global solution, the country would have come out of the memoranda. I absolutely believe it. With this situation half the House telling the other half traitors and, in the meantime, running taxes and wage and pension cuts and the opposition grow from the anger of the world and then the opposition comes to power and wet them more than those who accused them of particularly persecuting youth and the whole world from politics. If all Greeks and Greek women are turned away from politics, that's why they're turning it away, because those who say they want to expel others are proving worse than those who persecute. And in this place we're all kicking each other out. And he asks the people: when will a person be able to tolerate him? New Democracy had a position conference. I heard Mr. Mitsotakis' speech. I was expecting to hear something. He's cutting taxes, he knows that's bringing votes. How does he cut taxes? How will it bring growth? When New Democracy was in the government, did an investment come? Not one. So how are you gonna cut off? You're gonna replace it? We just have to trust you that you'll be different from yesterday. That's what you're asking. You ask the Greek people to accept that you will now be corrected and you will be better than yesterday. On what criteria? Why don't you draw up a program? You're always saying you're going to make a program, that, you're gonna, you're gonna, you're gonna, you're gonna! What are you gonna do? You're going to decrease - you say - 30% of HISPIA. What are you going to replace him with, since HICPIA is an inappropriate tax? They want foreigners, for example, 3 billion. If you reduce him to what, you have to bring it somewhere else. There is a perception that by reducing taxes cigarettes are being increased. This is economically expected. But, from where and from where do they grow? In the country there is economic infertility. There's nothing going on in the country. The standard rule of reducing taxes benefits the economy, but in countries that are normal. This country has become a cemetery. These rules do not apply to cemeteries. That's why the government falls out. And what does he have to do when the world's anxiety and vagina grows? They say, "Take 300 euros, you get 400 euros. With tracelets and dives, we're going to salvage what's being salvaged. That's what we do, ladies and gentlemen. So the mistake was made by Samaras with Venizelos who swore to the government and gave Tsipras the opportunity to recover their destruction and become a government. They had to insist and say: 'Lords will all go out together, we will all do what needs to be done for the country together'. And, of course, Tsipras made the same mistake, he swore that he had previously promised everything while he knew that the world was basically deceived. Because I do not believe that the Prime Minister did not know that it was impossible to carry out the insanity promised, that is to say,'sweet memorials, change Europe, make Europe different' and so on. I went to the recent session of the judges and advised them to bring down a little tons, because Contonis does what he does - Contonis and I regard him as a little afflicted man - and you go out as a judiciary and make announcements as a political party. Don't do that, don't fall. Even if the Minister falls, you stand at a height. The Minister if he doesn't vote tomorrow will be nothing, while you as long as you're on the energy, you're judges you're giving justice. You have a duty to respect your institution. They didn't get it. They thought I was attacking them. They didn't understand it. And I saw today that they continued with a decision that they and they alone are entitled not to testify. I asked them: "Have you given me the floor this year?" They replied to me: 'Twenty years we're tabling'. I say: 'I am not asking about 20, but for this year'. In the end, they were forced to say: 'This year, we did not testify'. "Say it, guys." They say: 'But we did not testify why one and the other came out...'. Guys, there are no different citizens in this place. All of us who are under control must willingly be under control. That's right. But if the Minister, I repeat, comes out like a columnist, as a national prosecutor, almost as a dictator and wants to pass his own. It has done the same in the gender identity, 15 years of age, to identify itself. The only person who did not realize that 15 years of age is a younger person to identify himself is Mr. Kontonis. He didn't get it. What can we do? We have to do with defiance. I would ask the Prime Minister to consider the issue of the replacement of Mr Kontonis, because if the climate rises further, the country will be damaged. I'm not saying that to get through the judges. After all, I told them that they had to testify 'out of the way' and they didn't like it. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] I say that if we start at this place in everything to challenge the decisions of justice and create the acidity of this kind, we will not have a good release. If we add to the acuity of other kinds and that between the government and justice, developments will not be normal for the country. On the issue of Skopje: newspapers say that by May the issue of the name of Skopje must have ended, because Trump is rushing to end this issue until June, and because it is an opportunity now that there is a more'soft' leadership and condescending to resolve the issue. I agree. I would ask, however, how are we involved in negotiating? In what way do we participate? How far can we retreat? What's the position? Antonis Samaras, do you know when he did the Spring Policy? On the day the issue of Skopje was raised in the Council of Heads of State and persecuted by the Minister of Foreign Affairs. At that time, the Spring Policy was founded. Karamanlis agreed, as far as I know, with old Mitsotakis and fired him. Samaras was persecuted by the government. Samaras is in New Democracy today. Hatzidakis replied the day before yesterday to "SKAI" that the New Democracy's position on the issue of Skopje is what was decided at that meeting of Heads of State. At that meeting of Heads of State or Government a complex name has been decided. Is that what Mr. Mitsotakis, the composite name? So, 'Nova Macedonia' or 'North Macedonia'? Is that what New Democracy is doing? If you press this, don't even compose combinations in northern Greece. I'm telling you. It'll be the "slap" too big. But does Mr. Tsipras so easily sell the name? Because they may drop ten statues, withdraw from the Album websites, take what they want, the name, and then a month after a month to bring them back when we have given them. What guarantees do you give? The same guarantees that old Karamanlis gave when he put Turkey as a guarantee force in Cyprus? When old Karamanlis and Averof put a guarantee force on Cyprus, Karamanlis came here and posted posts in the afternoon newspapers: "The Cyprus issue was finally resolved." And Georgios Papandreou goes out to this Chamber and says: "The grave of Cyprus has just been set." That's what he said about Karamanlis. You're gonna say the same thing now? Are we gonna give the name? Because strangers insist now or never. And perhaps a manoeuvre of Tsipras is to say that "we are making elections" and that the people decide. It's a big deal. It is a major one, because I tell you that the Mitsotakis government in 1993 also fell from the Skopje issue. From Larissa and above people are not willing for any Mitsotakis, for no Tsipras to deliver the name. They think it's treason, if any. Clear it up and make up your mind. In addition, state what you believe, what you impart. The Skopje issue cannot be left blind. Mr Skourletis - I heard him in a speech I was present - says that 'we will no longer give the regions the money on the basis of population data, but we will give it on the basis of quality and needs'. That is to say, in a very small municipality, which, in a population, is not entitled to large sums, if people are in danger of dying in floods, they will go to give. When did he figure that out? Should they be dead first? How long has Mr. Skourletis been a Minister? When did he realize that the way in which the regions were financed had to be changed and funding was to be financed on the basis of the real needs of the regions? He knew after they were dead. One more thing. In the Union of Judges, when I asked why the prosecutor did not act with his reflexes on Mandra and why they waited for the Durus to ask for responsibility, whoever it is, a prosecutor is thrown away and says to me: 'The next day, Mr President, an own-initiative investigation has been conducted'. And then, the move of the Durus was decorative, was it for the sight? If the process took place, what did he want to do with it? What if it's taken so long, though, that something has been found? No one's fault again. Inertial, inappropriate in the state. No one in charge! That's the result. And what happened when the proceedings are moving? The process was initiated with the "Saint Zone 2" that polluted Piraeus. I went down to Piraeus and asked if they'd received compensation. They didn't even know. I say, "Wouldn't you be a fisherman? Aren't you a caravans boy? Didn't you know you I'm asking?" We went to others. They didn't say anything, he says. No files were submitted. No one informed us. We're talking about auctions. And the government shouldn't be fatheaded. Since they say that the first residence is not protected, bring an amendment today, which says that the first residence is protected. It's over and out. Not to be able to touch it either a notary or an auctioner or a bank or anything. Why don't you explain this how honestly it is in society? Why do you let open opinions that "let us, in the first year we will auction so many thousand, the second so many, and then - says - we will go down the road". What's this? Why is this Chamber not explained in front of the people? Conditions have changed, ladies and gentlemen, over the last eight years. That's why the people are asking for protection. If the memorials weren't there and the vertical drop in income, there wouldn't be a request for protection. Do you want me to tell you my opinion? And the second residence must be protected for those who have children. In order not to say things that are difficult to achieve, however, there must also be a study of a social agreement between the state, creditors and banks, so that protection can be genuine. Anyone can claim to be protected everything. It's just how serious this conversation is. Here comes Mr. Erdogan, and I warned Mr. Tsipras not to give him a chance here, and he starts the madness of wanting one, he wants the other, and so on. He says, "We've answered him. The President of the Republic answered him, too, and Tsipras answered him. And that's a nice answer." He said to him: "You in Agia Sophia go and have parties, while we are respected." But what's left of this story? He remained that the Turks continue their claims and that our Armed Forces are in hostage, because Mr. Kammenos wants to upgrade some cans while the others bought a hundred F-35.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u109	They're not cans.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u110	They're not cans, okay. Go inside these cans and go to the Aegean Sea to hunt the F-35s, to see how capable pilots you are. I know they're brave pilots. But whatever accidents are caused occur because the machines on which they are resurrected are better off not to say what they are. For pensions I have repeatedly said that the solution is income criteria. Australia is a state west. Anyone with high incomes, in my view, should not be retired. If, in other words, you have more than 3,000 euros of rent, why would you get a pension of 1600 euros? That will save money so that we can really fund the social state. If you say you're left, why don't you? Put on income criteria. And the JRC must want that. One who has rents not to retire for as long as he has rents. If they stop being rented, retire. I'm not saying we destroy people. Whoever has an income of over 3,000 of rent or deposit interest or whatever does not get his pension. She doesn't need it. On the contrary, the state has a multitude of need to support one parent families, poor, homeless and all this world that we meet in our sights every day. Why avoid seeing the truth face to face? Why? Since at the end of the day, we'll end up there. Don't doubt it. It won't be a civil war here. There will necessarily be solutions in which the people have to finance the poor. There's no other way. Do you know any other way? I know I'm losing votes with what I'm saying. A rich man who has 5,000 euros of rent will say: “What does Leventis say? Will I take the pension?' The way we go, though, where we take pensions from four to three and from three to two to one, what do we do? What do we do the way we go, Mr. Mitsotakis? I know he hears from his office, too. I have no doubt. With Mitsotakis, I'm connected by one thing. You want me to tell you what? He threw down the government of the party that I represent. Mr. Mitsotakis actually ruined my resignation. And that makes us have a strange connection. It may not be toward good, but it may be toward evil. But it's an interface. I mean, two words for polling. Because Mr. Mitsotakis believes that, if the House becomes five-party, he will come out of power. And in all the polling friendly to him, we see great support for PASOK - it reached up to 12% - and we see the stable percentage of the New Democracy as well. Let's see, of course, how much it's going to be at the end, because they finally shave the groom! And here's what they're doing for the Central Association. And from the University of Macedonia, they're not turning around. I raised the percentages he gave and the total was 80%. Even with the 2.5% he gave yesterday, it's 3.20%. This percentage was given by the ‘MRB’ three days ago. But the gentleman of Thessaloniki didn't give it. Just leave the intent. But if he did the resurgence, the only party of the smaller ones - supposedly - that was in the House is the Union of Centres. But I want to say something. You should watch out for the gentlemen with the polls and watch out for the parties with the calculations if they base their calculations on the polls. I'm a politician of the primary sector. What have I learned? Running door, door and village, village. I won't care how old the genome is. I'll run with all the strengths I have and I'll look the people in the eye, because I'm not a million people I've nominated in public or loans I owe. To know some of the poll companies that they're gonna burn their degrees - which they don't have - with the Centro Association. And, in addition, the percentage we receive will not fluctuate around 3.30% to 3.40%. I, if that happens, I'll find myself defeated. The rate of the Central European Union, I let it be expressed by the people on the night of the elections. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr President. The President of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Dimitrios Koutsoubas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u112	Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you have exceeded every limit of shame and political deception with your new promise of the bright memorial future that awaits us after August 2018, when we are supposed to make our first national budget or start making it. You are telling us that the 2018 budget is the last Memorandum. You're trying to convince us that we're living somewhere else, in another country where we've even started fair growth for everyone. Unfortunately for you, workers now have enough experience to see behind your declarations, have pockets and understand the new measures that you are promoting in the next period. Despite your splendid declarations of development that start to relieve the people, next year workers will be called upon to pay over EUR 1 billion more taxes to achieve your goal of a great primary surplus of 3.5% of GDP. They will see to it that the right to strike is abolished, as your political bosses want. They will see you deliver PPC's lignite to investment groups and the current is even more expensive. They'll see their houses come out in the hammer. They will see you hunting, as taxmen, hired and self-employed, to cover industrialists, shipowners, the large capital as a whole, which systematically does not pay any taxes. Your development has the same class mark as the crisis for the workers. Then we had sacrifices to get the economy out of the crisis, now you're going to ask us for new sacrifices to shield your development. In other words, with a capitalist crisis the situation for the vast majority of the labour, populace, is deteriorating. The anti-grass measures are constantly coming. And if we keep walking on the same road, there's no light in the tunnel for at least the next few years. And how could it have been different? The crisis of capital overcompensation at a global level finds no solution of any kind. International analyses refer to unprecedented levels of capital overcompensation, a more characteristic version of which is the huge debt growth, private and public, across the world. A unique proposal and a solution that finds capital throughout the world is to increase the degree of exploitation of the working class in many different ways: by reducing wages directly, by ensuring cheaper labour force, by promoting privatizations in health, education, social services, which eject weight to the people's families, by hitting those considered or considered by you to be middle-sized. "Mediums", a smart term behind which you are hiding anyone who is not in a state of impoverishment, to find new sources of bleeding to support only the profitability of big capital. Everywhere and over time your side at this stage of the continuing class war is attacking employees, self-employed and retired. And leave now the krone for the benefits you pay. Every government - in fact every anti-population government, to identify it precisely - which cuts rights gives such bankrupt allowances to cover its policy. That's how the previous governments did it. After all, you yourself admitted today and yesterday, with speeches by your fellow Members and Ministers, that this is what the Government of New Democracy did. He was giving dividends. So your problem is not the benefits, but the rights. That's what you want to get it over with. That is your policy here in Greece. A constant wage reduction policy, a total of cheap labour force and reforms in favour of monopolies. That is, of course, what you are trying to establish for decades along with the continuation of the work of the previous ones from you. I say all of you, not just you in three years. In other words, both the New Democracy and the PASOK who worked actively for the establishment of the bourgeois power, that is, the fertile dictatorship of the monopolies. Indeed, you and all your political allies around the world are making friendly efforts. You have the wonderful peculiarity to be with everyone or pretend, anyway, that you are with all, since you have not kept anything else from opportunism that has seen you for years, beyond that exactly the ability to manoeuvre the chameleon, to say it more understandable, that always moves with the current. From the democratic Clinton to the "Damagingly Good" now republican Trump to the Netanyahu of Israel, as well as McCron, Merkel and many others. And since you always like to outline the international and European context, to justify your ruthlessness, one thing we say to you: of course, to bring the capitalist economy back to a phase of stable long-term development, you cannot manage it, even if you all agree and agree together. You all feel on your back the ghost of the internal contradictions of capitalism, his inability to control the productive powers he creates, his inability to invest in a sufficient percentage of capital. Throughout the world, international organisations and large banks, from the International Monetary Fund to the World Bank, from Deutsche Bank to the large American banks, all talk about an increasing chance of a new capitalist crisis over the next two years, with possible starting points for China in Asia and Italy in the Eurozone. Capitalism cannot manage the overcompensation of capital. The contradictions between groups, states and imperialist alliances, even within them, are constantly growing. The United States Government is literally energizing our region and increasing instability by proposing the transfer of Israel's capital to Jerusalem, which opens up a new, larger blood cycle. Your government takes the role of a signifier of NATO's plans, says, in the region and increases the danger so for the sovereign rights for peace in the region, in order to upgrade the position of the indigenous ruling class in the Eastern Mediterranean, the Balkans, in general. Recently we had a visit from Erdogan, where we saw the upgrading by Turkish policy of all claims to the detriment of our country's sovereign rights. And this fact cannot be changed by advertising economic agreements and mutual compromises between parts of the Greek and Turkish capital. And stop having a big idea about yourself. Don't think that your intelligence is the one that makes others dance, based on your tuuli! After all, you are acting as a loyal political staff, as a pawn - to say by appreciating - a class that does not hesitate to involve the Greek people more deeply in competitions and oppositions in the wider region in order to serve its own economic geopolitical interests. It will make you better to remembrance the oldest and most recent history of Greece, where the Greek governments have been engaged in wars many times, in interventions on behalf of the bourgeoisie, even with relationships of inequality compared to others. So we invite you once again, instead of constantly swinging the finger, rather than saying general words, to answer the following: will you at last be informed in detail what you have agreed on exactly what you have agreed on on on your journey to the United States of America and the political stripping you have done to Trump? What steps will you take to demarcate and declare the Greek EEZ before the investigations of the domestic hydrocarbon deposits proceed? What do you intend to do about the recognition of the Palestinian state? Of course, we know that the needs of the groups to ensure their profitability and competitiveness in these conditions are your guide. The cause of the attack on the workers' rights you are launching is precisely this profitability. That is why the attack on popular rights is a lasting attack and will not end in August 2018, even if we leave the memorandum, as you say. The measures you have already signed in the third assessment, but also in general, extend far beyond 2018. You do everything you can to level up the civil order, the income and the rights of workers in particular. You have signed for beastly primary surpluses of 3.5% of GDP over the next five years and by 2060 for surpluses exceeding 2% of the level envisaged by the European Treaty, which commits every country of the European Union to this, which shows that financial supervision is lasting and will never stop and that you have not achieved any kind of substantial debt relief despite your splendid declarations. Your budgetary commitments extend much after August 2018. You have signed a new pension reduction of 30% on all pensions in order to increase the bleeding surplus by 1%. That's what it's estimated to be. You have also signed a new additional tax increase of 1% of GDP that will hit low-wage, low-wage pensioners a year. These are measures to be implemented after the end of the 2018 programme. The new assessment you signed - in record time - says that you have already owned the programme, as if we didn't know. In fact, you're the ones making fun of it. The world has a tombstone, and you're the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one And, of course, you commit to doing whatever is necessary, even the most extreme, in order for reactionary reforms to proceed. What does that look like? It shows that, apart from overseeing the European Union and the IMF, the enemy of the people's interests is, unfortunately, also in our own country. We have you who have the willingness and the ability to move forward with reforms as the great capital needs, the industrialists, the shipowners, as you plan them along with the European Union's 'brows' and others. But you still have a fig sheet. What about the evaluation you signed? It provides for a series of supervisory and opinion committees, distinguishing the excess, the financial stability fund that the banks have, in order to ensure that the reforms are implemented up to antenna. Stop mocking the Greek people, Mr. Tsipras, if you can hear me from where you are, because you haven't shown up here. We challenge you from this Step to tell us which basic Memorandum measures - either from what you received, but you maintain and apply in full, either from what you have already received, or from what you are preparing for the next period - will be applauded after the end of the memorandum in August 2018, as you claim. On the substance, we tell you - and here we are - nobody will see it. That is why we are saying that this is a big political fraud. The long-discussed expiry of the memorandum will unfortunately not bring relief to workers of any kind. All they have to expect of you workers for 2018 is new tough measures. The full implementation of the law - emulsion of Katorugalos - which has even been rewarded for this "adultible" work by transferring to a more glaring ministry - shows its teeth. You've already blown off the insurance system in the air. You remove the insurance funds, unifying contributions and tax burdens. And you have the courage to describe as over-performance of measures the poorness of pensioners and workers, who are literally on their knees with insurance contributions. You are now bringing in a budget that provides for almost EUR 1 billion in surplus from the CRP. How will you do that? By abolishing the ESS, breaking down the low-pension workers, provokingly delaying the granting of pensions and leaving tens of thousands of out-of-date people with forced execution measures so that tens of thousands of poor self-employed people can't pay the great insurance contributions you have introduced. And as if that is not enough, you are preparing new reductions in new pensions, promoting their recalculation. Despite your constant reassurance, you are abolishing the special VAT system on the islands, bringing more than EUR 1 billion to the public. And for anyone who can't pay the anti-popular tax you've found the solution. First, you denounce him as a tax relief, and then you drop him in the bite of forced collection measures, seizing accounts, auctioning assets. But for the actual avoidance of large groups, not only do you not say a word, but you are seeing a reduction in even this low tax paid by 3.2%, after a reduction of 17% last year. At the same time as the taxation of natural persons is increasing by 5.5%, it is at least a challenge that large groups pay a tax of 5% of total government income and that this tax is reduced, since we are talking about it again - from tax exemptions and special schemes such as shipowners, their profits are actually tax-free. That is why the attack on tax evasion with plastic money, the draconian legal framework of the Independent Public Income Authority with multiple controls, is aimed primarily at the self-employed, on the one hand, on the one hand, as tax mortgages, to ensure the fiscal progress of the budget and, on the other, on the other, on the mechanism by which you are trying to throw a large number of them out of the market so that the phase of capitalist recovery can proceed, of course, only with the benefit of the big capital. You are not naive when taxing with insurance contributions and direct taxation on self-employed persons at a rate that may exceed 60%. You're just employees of the big groups. The least we have to say to you! Your aim is to speed up the concentration of pie on a number of major businesses - for those who did not understand this from your colleagues. That is what you are doing openly with the OECD toolboxes, which you have undertaken to promote. From construction materials and engineers to medicine, you beat the self - employed professionals for the benefit of large groups. Your policy is watered on every side with the interests of these monopolies. That is why you have tried - with failure the first time - to proceed to a violent attack on the labour movement, with the ban on the strike, by bringing that amendment at night. You, like BSE, are also being cut off for the representativeness of the unions, and at the same time you are supporting employers' terrorism and the government union that the unions are battling. Your pain has caught you too much for employee participation, and at the same time you maintain the misery of the associations of persons, which can be recommended by 15% of the workers to decide wage reductions. Next to this crime you are preparing another one: you are bringing in a new codification of labour legislation, which will of course seal all the reactionary changes in recent years. Where has your promise gone to reinstate the previous provisions? You are about to beat even the right of unions and federations to sign collective labour contracts, making use of their so-called representativeness. You want to break the labour movement, cut off the wings, stop the trade unions even collectively negotiating the terms of work with the capitalists. No one obliges you to do that. You have as a place of historical allergy to the class trade union movement. Besides, even as a government and government party, you have no real presence anywhere, so your lust is to erase it. It's not a random attitude. Come from a political stream that has delivered the weapons, which is completely integrated into the system and which, whenever you hear about class struggle, catchs you cold sweat. We will not answer you again, of course, that you have just been voted on from about 20% of the electorate in fact, and that in any case you have no legalisation to go ahead with such measures, nor is the alleged anguish of the great enemy of labour rights, of course, justified - BSE, we mean, for the supposedly improvement in the functioning of the unions of the labour movement. The laws of the civil state express the law of your own class, the ruling order, the great capital you serve. But we warn you not to dare to attempt. We are not going to hand over the inalienable right of the working class to the strike simply because you will vote together with the otherwise unscathed right, the New Democracy in here, in the House, as he said a while ago. We warn you that the hand of the working class is much stronger than you think and will not save you the foolishness of some of your ministers who have discovered supposedly counter-concentrations in the justified protest of unions against the governmental fiasco in the West Attica, by showing at the same time their own requests, their proposals - regardless of whether you agree - but who are giving a lasting and true answer to the people of the affected regions, unless you are thinking together with the strike to put plaster on the strike and the gatherings, or only allow those that you approve. In fact, today we have also had new misery from Mr. Tsipras' ministers, who said that the KKE has not taken a clear position on simple analogues to local government, as well as on the fact that the Municipality of Patras does not implement the measures of individual protection for cleaners. We propose that Mr Tsipras tell his ministers that their partners should inform them better so that they do not be exposed and treated in Parliament as just a trolley on the Internet. For for the simple analogue, when and if it is simple and inappropriate, as he says, we have said for years - and you know it very well - that the JRC will vote for it as a measure for the equalisation of votes, but not as a tool - your political, that is to say, thinking - of other kinds of partnerships, cooperations where you will find right and left allies, as you want, and as the Greek people and your voters are very well aware. For the Municipality of Patras, we inform you that the mayor already applies the measure above. But at the same time, it says that you're making foreign collar benefits, and that's what bothers you, because you're making the municipalities pay for them. But that doesn't bother you with Peletlidis. You are disturbed by what the people of Patras know well, that is to say, by their work, by their work, by defending the people's interests, by their claims and by what they testify to you and for which he is absolutely right. That is why it has the support of the majority of the people there in the city. As if not all of this were enough, in 2018 there are also possible new measures coming. The bank's most famous stress test will take place in the next few months. That is why you are preparing an even tougher framework so that the home auctions of the highly indebted households can proceed. You show once again your real face, because your central aim is to make all auctions electronically like thieves, bypassing even whatever protection the courts offer. Your objective is multiple, that is, on the one hand, to make all the real estate of the banks and the funds - those same funds, that is, they are licensed unnecessarily today, forgetting how you described them just two years ago as cords - and, above all, you are trying to force the workers to do what they can from their homes to the banks, so that their homes are not lost. Besides, the "Katelis" you've made is a convenient one. The employee pays everything he can at the bank, the loan is up to date and the mortgage remains, so the bank doesn't go into capital. In the course you will also use stress test and the possibility of new recapitalisation, perhaps deposit haircuts, to proceed with new anti-grass measures in order to be able to bend any objections to the auctions. You'll find us in front of you. The infamous development that you say you bring in 2018 is also unfair and unpopular. You fight against wage earners, pensioners, self-employed, tax professionals, with abolition of labour rights, reductions in pensions, increased contributions, auctions, reductions in social benefits. The privatizations are being aggressively promoted in the next period in order to find a profitable way out for groups in energy, transport, and even in water. These are measures that are not temporary or exceptional, but come to stay. They are measures that serve the profitability of big capital. These are measures that prove that capitalist development is not and cannot be polite. The growth you want is on the ruins of rights, because what the groups are gaining is lost by the workers. Besides, the people have seen in recent times another equally appalling aspect of development on the basis of capitalist profit, in the absence of anti-military works even in basic infrastructure such as national roads, as well as other crimes in the context of the commercialisation of land and land planning serving capital planning. The dead of Mandra, others killed in the places of work, the pollution of Saronics, poverty, unemployment, tolerance have a common denominator, that is, the unsatisfactory thirst of capitalists, industrialists, shipowners, bankers, for more profits, for greater food. That's the point. So we call on the workers, here and now, to organize their counter-attacks immediately, to have them fighters at the forefront of meeting their modern people's needs, their real needs, to raise their heads, to organise outbreaks of resistance and counter-attacks in every workplace, in every sector of work, everywhere, throughout the country. We call on them to coordinate this struggle with the other popular strata that suffer both within the large cities and in the Greek countryside, in the villages of our country, to change the negative correlations everywhere, to organise, fight in the movement, to strengthen the Communist Party of Greece, the only power that can really inspire hope, which can stand next to them, to give up to the people and this poor country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-three students and students and four teachers from the 2nd High School Argos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The President of the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group, Mr Nikolaos Michaloliakos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u114	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very sympathetic to the ministers of the Government who will be bathed with cold sweat, as the Secretary of the JRC said earlier, because the class struggle and the raid on the winter palace are coming. How the fossils of Stalinism see this class struggle, we know it very well. We also saw it from our TV screens, when Greek patriots, holding Greek flags, protesting outside the House, were attacked, apart from the forces of MATs and the KIC's trumpeters, which are the last guards of the winter palaces, the last line of defence of the civil system against the national revolutionary idea. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you know that you are not at risk from the JRC. You know that you are not at risk from the communists. The system only has one danger today, the sinful and corrupt pluralist system, the pseudo-democracy of the west, the nationalism regenerated throughout Europe and which in Greece is dynamically represented by the Golden Dawn of the Greeks. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] There is a debate today on the budget. According to the draft budget, measures amounting to EUR 1.9 billion are expected for 2018, which will be imposed with new cuts in the single wage bill, with additional cuts in pensions and family allowances, with the abolition of the CSR, with the abolition of many allowances and with recent charges, of course, to free professionals. The government has imposed a total of twenty-seven new taxes on this budget and twenty-one reduction in pensions and social benefits. It has, in fact, reduced twice the tax, having increased indirect taxes. Among other things, the abolition in 2018 of the reduced rates of VAT on thirty two islands of the northeast Aegean and the Dodecanese comes. Among these are Lesvos, Chios and Samos, who are suffering at the moment, which have been socially dispersed by refugees and illegal immigrants. And you are still talking about war refugees at the same time as Syria is coming out and saying that the war is over. The Iraqi government comes out and says the war is over. We read in newspaper reports that the churches of the Orthodox Christians of Iraq are being rebuilt, because the war is over. The only country, which has not understood that the war has ended and is hosted by the flaw of the Greek people of war, a war that does not exist, is Greece. So in our islands, in the Aegean islands, whose sovereignty Erdogan claims and I shall return to this matter. Free professionals, doctors, lawyers, engineers, shop owners are beaten unrelentingly. The middle class has literally disappeared. You want to wipe her out, you want to lead to a poorening and proletarianization of the masses, so that there is no resistance. And what I have said in my previous speech to the House is that the worst thing you've ever done as a government, the government of SYRIZA and ANELs, is not that you didn't shave the memorandum, it's not that you retreated and surrendered to international loan sharks, but that you rooted out every hope from the breasts of the Greek people, leading him to a passivity and a rajadism. Budget 2018 and your slogan still speaks in the ears of a deceived people: "No house in the hands of a banker". And I come here to read to you that the head of the stadium of the Costello Commission has warned that the third assessment will not end at the end of January if the auctions do not continue for debts other than banks. In fact, according to a provision adopted by your Government in May, Article 78 of Law 4472/2017 provides that the auctioning of real estate for debts to the DUs will be conducted at starting prices not objectively, but at much lower commercial rates. Also, in the current provision, seizures and auctions may be applied for amounts over a maturity of more than EUR 500. Poverty strikes when you make housing confiscations for a debt of 500 euros. In addition, seizures of public debt do not protect the first residence. Of course, this provision opens up the ambiguity of Halos. The Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras, says that there is no need for a law to protect the first residence and that you have made a gentlemen's agreement with the banks. You're serious, aren't you? What deal have you made with the banks? Which banks? Those who now belong to international funds, to cords of international financial capital, which have no sign of honor, in order to gain at the expense of the people? With regard to the auctions I have here a document, which I will submit in the minutes of the Parliament, and is the Official Journal of the Government, the GAEC of 29 November 2017, where Article 1, field of application, mentions characteristics: "The specific conditions for keeping and disclosure to credit institutions of the special bank account are laid down - I repeat "special unreasonable bank account" - of the notaries acting as electronic auction agents to all their lenders and of their debts and debts for any reason". Not even the Pope of Rome has such immunity, which you give to notaries who will play dirty games on behalf of your own and the loan sharks of the banks! In all this, we have indirect taxes. It is impressive that while the economy is in constant decline, revenues from indirect taxes paradoxically remain at high levels. For 2018, it is planned to total EUR 27,390,000, the largest amount since 2011. Unlike direct taxes, as you know, which are proportionately burdening all citizens, indirect taxes are the same as the rich and the poor. Indirect taxes are taxes highly capitalists made by a government, which states left. I have no objection to the fact that it is left, because what else was left from a real capitalist system, since it focuses on matter and money? The Greek people have been kneeled from the memorials and at the same time in newspaper articles, in communications from the Institute of Consumers, we see that food prices have not fallen. In fact, we read in the relevant news report that the international colossus in food trade, the Dutch company 'SPAR', which has an annual turnover of EUR 35 billion, is going to return to Greece while leaving Greece. The tsir, the total revenue from the food chains is EUR 10 billion. How can the same products be sold cheaply in Germany and France than they are sold in Greece? It is obvious that we have a food cartel, which you are three years of government and you have not touched it at all. I'm going through another issue that's very important to me. It's important, because no nation lives free without its Armed Forces. I consider it unacceptable that the money for the country's national defence has been reduced since 2009, which was EUR 5,763,000,000, to EUR 3,181,000. This is a reduction that will hit our Armed Forces critically and against which we are opposed. We would even be willing to deny the people more to strengthen their national defence. It was December 10, 2017, when we were talking about the budget in this Chamber and I had said that - from the Minutes of the House - about the indirect taxes, which you continue to swell and ask for more from the average Greek citizen: "There is a dramatic increase in indirect taxes, namely oil, petrol, cigarettes. They are taxes unfair, which the whole people will pay. Your budget is a memorandum and we will therefore vote against it. Apart from a memorialist, however, he is also irrational. It doesn't stand in logic. Because since the Greeks have unpaid debts in the public sector of EUR 91 billion - that's exactly what I told you a year ago - you're asking them to pay 46 million euros." I also said in my own speech about the budget that if we had a national government, today in the budget there should be a significant budget, and it is no other than a mortgage. You did not register it either at the end of 2015 or at the end of 2016 or at the end of 2017. I told you back then, and I repeat that the historian, who belongs to the Left, Hagen Flysher, has written in his book that they had paid three instalments of Germans on the Occupational Pensions and had also entered in their budget in 1945, before they dropped their status, payment for the loan. Today's President of the Republic even wrote in your national newspaper, your party body, "AGEI", the following about the mortgage loan: "The current claims of the Minister of Finance Mr.Siomple, regarding Greece's demands are manifestly and provocatively wrong. Not only is there no question of limitation of the earlier arrangement, but on the contrary, the above-mentioned Greek requirements are fully operational from a legal point of view.’ And what did you do? You didn't do anything! The Golden Dawn asks the government, at least at the last minute, to register the loan as a requirement for Greece to Germany. Our claim is quite legitimate. And you're responsible and accountable, too. You rule now. You said it was the New Democracy and the PASOK, which was previously the centre association that did not ask for it. You three years when you're government, why don't you ask? But that's not all. I would remind you that our famous lenders, the international loan sharks, have fallen completely out of their forecasts for Greece and its national economy. They said that in 2012 we would have a fall in GDP of 2.6% and 7%. And yet, we continue to obey and follow their orders. In 2011, 2012, 2013 decreased Greek income, GDP, Gross National Product by 25%. At the same time, when in the three years 1946-1949, when we had the Greeks' each other, war literally, villages destroyed, people executed by all sides, do you know what the fall in GDP was? It was only 15%, less, greater calamity from 2011 to 2013. Then some New Democracy gentlemen come and say why they cast their government two years ago. That's why they shot her. Because they reduced the income of the Greeks by 25% as co-responsible, and they first taught the policy of the memorials, the PASOK with which they aspire to govern. And so that the Greek people know that whoever votes for New Democracy is basically voting for PASOK to come to the government. PASOK opened the way for the memoranda in Greece, the memoranda against which a single political power is truly fighting in Greece, the Golden Dawn of the Greeks. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] We'll have 3.5% primary surplus by 2022. With GDP slightly below EUR 200 billion, 3.5% of GDP is 6.4 billion. You ask neither for nor much EUR 32 billion in five years. I believe that the Greek economy will not be able to withstand this and that in 2022 bankruptcy will typically come. But if we look at the evolution of this debt in depth, then 3.5% of the primary surplus of 2% by 2060 is required when no one lives in here. Do you know what that means? In 2060, if things go on like this, the debt will not only have been reduced, but it will have risen to 195% of GDP. More importantly, 45% of GDP will be required for interest-rate payments. In other words, for every 2 euros that Greece will produce, 1 should go to international loan sharks. You're criminalizing the country! There is no way, unless the debt is regulated, if the debt is not denounced as burdensome, which is proving to be burdensome, there is no way that Greece will survive. And within everything else, the SYRIZA - ANLL government celebrates the country's exit from the memorials, the same time that Moscovisi comes out and says you'll be on board until you pay 75% of the debt. I mean, never! We'll be on board. You have made Greece, from a country that once wanted to find its national independence, completely subordinate to international interests. You, gentlemen of SYRIZA, who at the end of 2014 took the country by owering citizens to the state of EUR 73 billion and today, according to the latest figures in October of the Independent Public Income Authority, owe EUR 99 billion 751 million. In other words, you have increased citizens' debts to tax by EUR 27 billion. Diaselblum himself comes in and says "the memorandum has been made to save the banks". So let the fairy tales, both you of PASOK and the New Democracy and SYRIZA, that you are saving Greece with the memorials. The international loan sharks and the banks you saved! You are now coming to sell PPC, an asset of the Greek people that was taken effort. Once there were almost three hundred private electricity supply companies. All of this was unified and became a big public company. And now you're going to sell it, at the same time that when the New Democracy government said it would sell part of PPC, you were out and said it was a national crime. This national crime you denounced at that time is being committed by you, gentlemen of SYRIZA. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the deletion of debt is a one-way road, and the Golden Dawn remains firmly in this direction. If the debt is not deleted, all we hear is words of air. Relief, adjustment, reorder, it's air words. No one's talking about haircut, no one's talking about deletion. If there is this debt, no one will invest in Greece. On this point I would like to say: no more sacrifices for Europe and the euro. That blue flag with the yellow stars of the European Union, for us golden people, says nothing. Just the blue one! Europe is stable to us. It is funny what I hear that Greece's borders are Europe's borders. Are you serious, gentlemen? Will the armoured divisions in Luxembourg come to defend us if Turkey is attacking us? Or are Malta's submarines coming? What stories are these that Europe will save us? And all this happens in a country that is rich. I will give you two elements from the professor of geology, Mr. Philippidis: "Two trillions of euros are estimated the gross value of Greek wealth". And I have another element for the south of Crete, where there are $600 billion in natural gas. Deutsche Bank cost it EUR 427 billion. Nothing about all of you but words of the air. It's not everything. We have other serious issues. I'm coming to Erdogan's visit. I read to you what I said on 10 December 2016 in the budget debate on this case, a year ago. I read you from the Minutes of the Parliament on 10 December 2016: "Good national theme Erdogan statements for claiming the Greek islands and for reviewing the Treaty of Lausanne". Here, in this room, I said it a year ago. I had quoted and said what the late professor Panagiotis Kondylis said: "While Greece has been guided by soul and body in Europe to ensure from the danger of Turkish, its European orientation will be transformed into a de facto instrument for its conversion into a Turkish satellite." I'm coming to Erdogan's recent visit. Erdogan spoke of the need to update the Treaty, the Greek President of the Republic for interpretation, according to modern data, and finally the Prime Minister for modernisation. In fact, for those who know Greek, the words and expressions "update", "interpretation according to modern data" and "modernisation" do not differ. You opened the way for a revision of the Lausanne Treaty. Take it back, or you're nationally accountable. As for the Treaty of Lausanne, I have something else to say: I want to submit to the Minutes a photo, a picture of the wreath that was tabled to the Memorandum of Unknown Soldier Tayyip Erdogan. [[At this point, the Secretary-General of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Mr Nikolaos Michaloliakos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] He's a half-degree. How did you let him testify to the Turkish flag in a monument where is the grave of the Greek soldiers who fell to fight the helmet? For the reason of the true - and I will present them in the Minutes - I will read names of battles engraved in the Memorial of the Unknown Soldier: Elassona, Sarantaporo, Yannitsa, Thessaloniki, Aetorrachi, Manoliass, Bizani, Liscos where Lorenzos Mavilis died, Artakis, Aidini, where he triumphed and expelled the Turks General Plastiras with the "542" Euzoon Constitution, Philadelphia, Koutahea, Dorylaion, Afion Karahisar, Saigorios, Calle Groto, Cyprus 1974. [[At this point, the Secretary-General of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Mr Nikolaos Michaloliakos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] All these people died fighting the half-life. And you let Erdogan testify in their grave a half helmet. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u115	Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u116	Excuse me, while you are here, I would like to raise an issue, which I consider to be very important - and it is very important - that false impressions should not be created today in the world, throughout the people who are watching, and that is related to German compensation. Only on that matter. The other issues are matters of your policy and you referred to them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u117	I'm talking about the mortgage loan.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u118	I know very well. I will tell you on that. You mentioned the loan only. You have given us the responsibility, in any case, that the relevant decisions have not been taken by the House. You are well aware that there is a finding of the competent committee of Parliament, which has not yet come to be approved by Parliament, on a set of issues relating to military compensation - because Germany has then lost - in the hundreds of martial witness cities with the tens of thousands of innocent victims, the victims of famine, in ancient times - that is to say, a set of issues - and, of course, the landlord loan. All of this has been gathered with documentary exquisitely from the Legal Council of State and from elsewhere and by committees working for so many years and is an important arsenal of great national importance and with a great moral, political and historical burden to claim. I would like to say straight away, and I would like to say this in front of you so that you can, if you like, comment on it: you have not missed all this, Mr Michaloliaco. Your reference to the fact that Germany is accountable to the instalments of the mortgage has to do with your deepest and expressed public conviction that you have a selective affinity and that you have lost the war at that time, that the forces that lost the war at that time are the forces in which historically, ideologically and politically you were referring to both then and now. In this sense, I do not want him to stay out to the world that listens to us, as you do, an honest claim on the enormous German allowances and corrections they owe to the Greek people. It's a completely incomplete report. It is no accident at all, because you only recognise this issue on several occasions. For the rest, you think it was warfare, in which the powers you mentioned - and you mention - have lost. And luckily for democracy and the free world, they lost the war then.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u119	Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u120	Mr President, I agree with you, of course, that we must also demand military redress. I have stood up to the issue of the loan, because this issue has not made any progress at all. The other issue of war redress has gone on. From that point on, you should know that it is another person's ideology, which in no way corresponds to the ideology of national socialist Germany or fascist Italy, because they belong to other countries and other times, and another is homeland. We, as Greek patriots, denounce as war crimes what has been done by the occupying forces in our country, denounce the crimes, the executions of civilians, the destruction of villages, and therefore you are wrong to us and interpret us wrongly. That's what I had to tell you. I did not mention selectively, as you said. I have referred to why this is a characteristic case which we can very much claim. That's what I had to tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr President. The floor is held by the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr. Panos Kammenos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u122	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today's budget debate is a very special debate. At least in the last twenty-fifth years that I remember in this Chamber, there was a list of speakers that had not been exhausted and we waited until the 12th night so that the Prime Minister would close the speech in order to vote on the state budget. This year, there was no special interest by the Vice-Presidents. They signed a hundred ninety, and it seems...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u123	They all spoke!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u124	I think the camera can be turned back to your seat to show how interesting the Opposition for the discussion at Chiefs level is. You're fifteen MPs inside.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u125	Because it's you. That's why!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u126	After the New Democracy's conversion to Potami with Mrs Gennamata's support, I think you do not even come to the budget debate. [[Applause from the ANE wing]] It has turned into a river of Mr. Theodorakis' dry river, of course, from which you have nothing to separate. You have exactly the same ideological direction as you said. Anyway. I think, Mr. President, that...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u127	We were running together!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u128	I'll answer that, too. We were never running with either the son of Papantoniou, nor with the Mrs. Gennamas, nor with the whole PASOK. Then we were after them. Now you've become best friends. They come to your conference and applaud. Mrs. Gennimata is not sitting before the Dioskouris, Mr. Voridis and Mr. Georgiadis, and is also applauded by extreme right-wing elements, which once denounced PASOK. But let us be serious about the budget, because this budget is indeed the first normality budget to be discussed in Parliament over the last seven years. And it is particularly my pleasure that, after two years of hard efforts, primarily of the Greek people and of the secondary of our Government, a budget is presented, as it should be in a developed country, a budget that is not characterised by the anomalies and adventures of the past, which led us to the wrong manipulations, the crimes of recent years after 2009. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, the time when the budget was permanently characterised by fragmentary, unplanned and negotiated measures has passed without return. The times that the budget included hundreds of millions of cuts - and I will talk about the Ministry of National Defence - will not come back as long as we have taken responsibility for the government and for any ministry. You will allow me not to dwell on the macroeconomic sizes of the state budget, which have been analysed by the relevant ministers and which, in general, are worthy of congratulations to the Ministry of Finance. These congratulations result from events. For example, I mention the decrease in borrowing costs in historically low figures for the last period, the upgrading of the country's credit rating, the reduction of unemployment - current data from 'ERGANI' - the positive prospects for recovery of the economy. I will submit to the House only a graph of the ten-year bonds of the Greek government's lending. We've reached 3,986%. At this rate, Greece was borrowing in 2006. We are therefore in borrowing costs for the country - and this is a criterion that cannot be called into question - at the 2006 level, not even 2007, not 2008 or 2009. I present it to the House, so that only the drawing can prove the real image of the economy as a mirror. [[At this point, the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos presents for the record the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I will now stand at my house, the Ministry of National Defence, and I would like to say that once again - and I believe it very strongly - the defence budget should be a field of consensus and consensus between all the political groups in this Parliament and not a field of controversy and disagreement. We have a lot to go against, but not against defence. We should all be united towards any external threat in the country to defend the rights of which a respected amount of the state's annual income is directed towards the sensitive area of defence. I would like to tell you that today I turned the camps, wishing the officers of the Armed Forces. What I expect from all the political forces, as far as defence is concerned, is to be able to reach the level we once were in this House, where the government is voting on the budget and the opposition to the only Ministry to which it gives a positive vote, is in the budget of the Ministry of National Defence. In the context of this understanding and consensus, therefore, I shall fully agree with the relevant Chief of Defence of the New Democracy, that the Ministry of National Defence is hurt. It's really awkward, but he forgot to mention what he is. Since there's nothing to say, I'll tell you what's hurting. The Ministry of National Defence is hurt by the 2000-2002 armaments scandals until 2004. It is awkward of what we paid to the submarines by Mr Tsohatzopoulos, by Mr Papantoniou, from the scandals that New Democracy has raised as Opposition and then forgot. And now, for healing the old wounds, I inherited the right of the children of the Ministers who then handled the equipment to participate in the opening of the political agenda of the New Democracy. The Ministry of National Defence is hurt by the extra-real budget cuts, which for the period 2009-2015 exceeded 50%. The truth is, you have made sure that you've had enough of the staff of the Ministry of National Defence with the reductions in their remuneration. Now, you don't cry and you come to move the finger. Who? You who have cut the salaries of the executives and instead of bringing them back after the decisions of the TTE, have given them 50%.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u129	Give me the other 50%.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u130	And you gave them 50% - take note - by saying that 50% is all due by the Council of State.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u131	Why don't you give the other 50%?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u132	That's the truth. That's your deal with the lenders. We give 50% for the whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u133	And in 2015-2016 you said you'd give it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u134	And the truth is that we prove this precisely from the dialogue agendas with lenders, Mr Davaki. I would like to remind you that the present government has not cut itself, on the contrary has made a continuous effort to solve the problem. And as long as you insist on things you should have done, because now you've caused them, now you're abandoning us. So we'll tell you what we've done. We will say what executives have experienced in recent years as a return to the recognition of their offer and not to the healing of the wounds that you have opened. We will therefore tell you that in respect of out-of-court compensation paid to the border in recent years, and in respect of services which were not compensated during the year, when you, with significantly higher budgets, were indifferent. You did not do what you had to do at the border despite a few years in part. We'll tell you about the payroll, which, as Cassandras, you were talking about great cuts, judging by itself the odds, will restore the distortions of the past and will not bring down the executives. And as long as you're talking about reducing the five and ten euros, we're going to go against the increases they're going to record. Close psalm! We will tell you about the vote on night's compensation, a permanent and fair request from the Armed Forces' officials, which will restore many years' injustices and be a right to them. We will tell you about the introduction of the frontier allowance, which is part of the regular salaries of officials, which will ensure that it is paid uninterruptedly. Ladies and gentlemen, the main reason why I am proud to lead this ministry is undoubtedly the quality and morality of the staff. These two, unfortunately for the Civic Anti-Civilization, make executives able to understand who is mocking them and who is fighting them every day for them, who is falsifying them and who is actually listening to them. And you know, ladies and gentlemen, that this is the problem that officials have always had: they have not listened to them. As Mr Vitsas said yesterday, we are listening to the executives, listening to the officials, trusting them, because they are more hurt than anyone else in their homes. And be sure that the executives see the ministry as their own home. In order to move to the figures, I would again agree with the Nea Democrat, how he really will be a key study for the future, how, with double money in the past, they could not do half of what we are doing today. The figures are revealing: In 2009-2015, the overall budget of the Ministry of Defence decreased by 50%, i.e. at absolute prices from 6,5 billion in 2009 to 3.2 billion in 2015. Since 2016, the budget of the Ministry of National Defence has moved around the same level as the 1.3 billion. I would remind you that even when there was provision for a reduction in the preliminary draft government budget in 2016 by 500 million in defence expenditure, finally, after good cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, it was avoided. It is worth noting that the budgetary framework adopted by the previous government for 2015-2018 for 2018 for defensive budget expenditure amounted to 2,8 billion. It is easy to record the review of the newest medium-term programming with a number of 1821 to 3.1 billion. Remember the announcement by Mrs Bakoyannis in Mr Hatzinikolaou's question: 'Where will the money for education and health be found when she said she would cut the Ministry of Defence's budget to 50%? In addition, a relative increase in the overall budget of the Ministry of Defence is recorded in the following years to the extent that the general budgetary conditions allow it. But, in order for everyone and everyone in the Chamber to be aware of the situation in the defence sector in recent years, I quote: In the category of remuneration, the PASOK - New Democracy, Venizelos - Samaras - reduced the remuneration by approximately 32%, leading the personnel of the Armed Forces to impoverishment. With regard to the operating cost of the budget, i.e. expenditure on fuels, military food, conservation, etc., the situation is even worse, as the reduction in the budget for 2015 compared to the year 2009 is close to 60%. In equipment, the decline in this period was around 68%. In short, as I said before, the reduction in the budget of the Ministry of National Defence for the period 2009-2015 exceeds 50% and in absolute terms exceeds EUR 3.2 billion. These figures are revealing and do not need any further comment from my side. All I will comment on and I must stress is the fact that, if the defence and the feeling of security are being held high in the Greek people, this is solely due to the high mind, the spirit of the personnel of the Armed Forces, who, against every cut, defend with feelings of supreme responsibility the integrity of the country and its sovereign rights. At the same time, they also give social work. Wherever we needed them, they were present. They were present in the rain a few months ago, they were present in the migration, they are present in every local society. What I have said has taken place in previous years and we have been called upon to deal, in close cooperation with the military leadership, with this unfavourable situation. Please note, however, that in relation to the 2018 budget, which has been tabled for vote: The remuneration credits increase approximately 2% in relation to the year 2017, due to the implementation of the new special salary of Law 4472/2017 and the increase of the State's employers' contributions as an employer in favour of HRKA for staff who were subject to the State pension scheme until 31 December 2016. The appropriations for operating expenditure show a 7% reduction, which corresponds to the planned and fully costed activities of the General Staff. In addition, about 7,000 euros are involved in a reduction in the cost of cut-off electricity, by agreement between the Ministry of Finance and the company PPC for a relative discount to the Ministries. On the issue of reducing electricity costs, next year we will have at least 30% reduction in costs, only by replacing lamps in all camps - without paying the Ministry of National Defence or EUR 1 - with new technologies and paying it through PPC's accounts. The appropriations for the armaments programmes are an increase of around 7.4% in line with the forecasts of the medium-term budgetary policy framework of No 4472. Overall, the budget of the Ministry of National Defence of 2018 is increased compared to this year about 27,700,000 euros. In order to make it easier, and with regard to the case study of the future, as Mr Kikilis says, I will give you some evidence that shows how with half the money you achieve the maximum results. The example is derived from the multi-advertising equipment programmes. In this category and in due course, I repeat from the previous governments, in the medium term, the financial services of the Ministry were given instructions on the subject, which in cooperation with the General Staff and the Services of the Ministry of Finance had provided the necessary supplies of armaments and, above all, their maintenance, the follow-up support, fully exploiting the appropriations for armament projects available to us. It is worth noting that in previous years the absorption of the relevant appropriations ranged to 22% in 2011, 41% in 2012, 71% in 2013, 59% in 2014. From 2015 onwards, in terms of consumption of credits for the structured credit, an absorption rate of 94% is recorded in 2015 and 98% in 2016, and the forecast for the current year is around 99%. I do not want to mourn you with numbers, because in part, within the numerical system, actions are often lost, especially for our executives, and for the whole of society, for actions relating to the modernisation of the medical equipment of military hospitals, making use of all available means, so that the health expenditure, to which our executives and their families are subjected, is drastically reduced, as regards contracts with large private companies, through clear and open competitive procedures, such as in the case of Piraeus Bank, by offering important privileges to our executives, their families, as well as to retired staff. Speaking of retired staff, no one should forget to take measures to shield the share funds so that they can carry out their social mission. Taking advantage of my previous presence in Thessaloniki for the opening of another modern complex of military homes, I take the opportunity to emphasise the expansion and improvement of the housing programme, which we had already planned in 2015, which will make us proud of achieving the goal of three thousand homes throughout the territory, which will empower us with additional courage to extend this programme, to cover all the housing needs of the executives over a period of time. In addition to the above, we cannot all recognise, together, the assistance of the Armed Forces, as I said before, in the refugee and immigration crisis, not only to help people who really need it, ensuring human living conditions, but also in a way that is not borne by the state budget, because with the care of the Ministry's financial services, in cooperation with the responsible authority of the Ministry of Economy and Development, a constant effort is being made to draw up relevant European funding. For the social role and the supply of the Armed Forces, I do not need to be extended, because every day we are witnessing their presence, where necessary, in the fires, in the forest protection activities during the summer season, in the recent floods in Mandra, in the search and rescue operations in the Aegean, up to the provision of medical care to our locusts and, in particular, in the islands, from roadworks to difficult and remote areas, until the provision of sludge and bread to old homes and sacred metropolitans. Ladies and gentlemen, for one thing you must all be sure in this Chamber that the Armed Forces will always be a man in the country's budgetary effort. It will be a critical factor of stability in the wider region, ensuring conditions of stability and security, elements necessary for the development of the economy, while offering society a significant amount of work in difficult conditions and situations for the people. I would also like to assure you that the economic crisis has not reduced to a minimum the credibility, mind and worthy of the army. The Greek Armed Forces are fully aware of their mission and we must all be proud of their level. In no case should the economic crisis change into a national crisis. And in order to achieve this, we must all stand with confidence in the Armed Forces and their staff. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] I would like to mention, at this point, that the programme that we ran in 2017 for the Year of Judiciary and Adolescents was a complete success. National guards from all Aegean islands, from the border regions, from all over Greece were present in the reorganisation of the National Guard. Yesterday, in Thessaloniki, three thousand of them came to the end ceremony of the “Years of National Guard” at their own expense, from their pockets. They did their term of office after her end, even the sixty - fifth, and in some cases the seventy -seventh year of their age. It was reborn what had been designed in the past, the palatial defense in our islands and at the border. I would also like to say, respectively, that the personnel of the Armed Forces are feeling and must feel security, because the financial gains are not the only factor of prosperity. All of this plays an important role, which we are working on and which concerns meeting the needs of housing, as I said before, creating nurseries and so many others, which will make the staff feel that it is the Ministry of National Defence that is standing and trying to feel like their family. Ladies and gentlemen, this budget is the budget which leads to the end of the memoranda. It leads to the end of the dose negotiation. There will be no renegotiations on the dose according to the measures that the lenders will want. We have to understand that Greece is now coming out of the time of the memoranda, coming from the time of the concession of national sovereignty. I know some people are upset. This is where you called "Geroon, strong!" You were the ones who called "Geroon, strong!", you were the ones who wanted to humiliate the Greek people, to have political results. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Hey, Gerun didn't last! The Greek people have kept and this government will keep the country out of the crisis! That's what hurts you, but it's the truth! The material programme, which you, gentlemen of the New Democracy, together with PASOK, cost the Greek people EUR 280 billion in new debt, EUR 58.6 billion in measures, EUR 61.6 billion in loss of GDP, EUR 58 billion in new red loans. Who? They're best friends. To Mr Psykhi, to all those who now take the turn for the court, to all those whose bills are being seized, to all those who have exchanged political support from within in order to give them the loan.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u135	What's he talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u136	And you took them, Mrs. Vuldesis, from such bands when they were being borrowed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u137	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u138	Didn't you take it from the "FODER TYPES", Mrs. Vulture? You shared them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u139	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u140	You're... Aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u141	Please do not write anything in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u142	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u143	Mr President, Mr Kammenos!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u144	He was grabbing them from the "ELEVER TYPE", when he provided loans, while Greek small and medium-sized enterprises were hungry! That's the truth. You shared them nicely between you and you thought the Greek people were an idiot!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u145	Mr. Kammenos, Mrs. Vulge, please stop.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u146	...8.5 billion loss of insurance contributions...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u147	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u148	Mrs. Vulture, you've found six times. Delete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u149	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u150	But are you all right? What are these things?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u151	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u152	But please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u153	Let me see you tomorrow with Marinakis what you're gonna do! Let me see you tomorrow, tomorrow!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u154	Minister, please very much, no personal references or such expressions. Please, these expressions...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u155	Erdogan left and you took the streets back. You've been hiding for three days!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u156	Mrs Vulture, if you can't stop, please take an individual break.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u157	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u158	The break? He's talking now. But I said it before. Didn't you hear?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u159	Get it back.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u160	From the "VATTER" you were paid when he took loans and cut the loans to the companies, as the others received them from the group "LABRAKI" and the complexes that were borrowed...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u161	To be removed from the Minutes and from it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u162	I was paid, he says, by the "FODY" who received loans.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u163	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u164	Mr. President, what can I do?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u165	Where were you with Erdogan? Three days you were hiding for Erdogan to leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u166	Please, Mrs. Vulture! But it's not possible! Do you want me to call you back to class? Why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u167	Rescind the Minister in the classroom!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u168	Mrs. Buddhism wanted me to go to Erdogan to fight! You wanted me to take out the guns when it came?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u169	Do you want me to call you to class, Mrs. Vulturis? She's been over it ten times, Mrs. Vulture. That's not right. Discontinue an argument. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u170	But that's not a speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u171	No, it's interesting that the Greek people listen to the views...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u172	No personal reports. You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u173	So I keep going. The materialistic programme of the New Democracy and the PASOK, of co-operation, which continues to appear as a common body, neoliberalism, with the supposedly social democracy, together with the conferences, which say they have common positions - "We have nothing to split with the Potami", said Mr Mitsotakis at his conference - cost 8.5 billion in loss of insurance contributions, due to eight hundred thousand unemployed, 37.7 billion in losses of banks, PSI, 13.4 billion in losses of insurance funds, 30.2 billion in losses of shares of the Financial Stability Fund in banks in March 2015.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u174	Be quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u175	These governments ate the debt of 1,2 trillion euros, 92 billion euros of Europe's packages, 83 billion equipment and left 190 million one and 170 million euros of the other in their parties. Now they're changing names to change APMs. That's the truth. Where did the money go? Where'd the cass go? The 15 million of the cash register, the safe box, disappeared. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering a new period. The Greek people know that since this year businessmen will have a hundred and twenty instalments for their debts in tax and insurance funds, hundreds of doses in the out-of-court compromise. Family allowances, given to families with one child, with two children, with three children, were analysed. If you want, I'll tell you how much they take. I can give it to you. [[At this point, the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos presents for the record the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is detailed how each child gets from government subsidies. We are going to a social dividend, which is 1.4 billion, which is more than double last year. We are doing just that, which he described at the neoliberal Conference in New Democracy, former Prime Minister Costas Karamanlis, saying two things. We are calling for those who have been most affected by the crisis to be supported, while the New Democracy of today is calling for those businesses to be restored more freely to be made redundant. The second thing he has asked for is to move to constitutional reforms for the election of the President of the Republic by the people. We fully agree on these two. As far as the first is concerned, we have acted and will continue to do so, because in fact, most of the Greek people are still suffering from the crisis, which the PASOK-New Democracy has created after the hollow of the Greek people, George Papandreou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u176	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u177	They were deleted from the Minutes, both the objections to "..." and personal references, as well as to "...", which you have said several times.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u178	No, I'm sorry. I don't care about the Minutes! Give me the floor! They heard on TV!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u179	No, no. Please! Let the debate not be overturned. It was heard and deleted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u180	They heard on TV!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u181	And now I sound like they're deleted from the Minutes. [[Noise - protests from the Wing of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR]] Wait a minute!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u182	I want the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u183	Mrs. Vulture, take the microphone in front of you. We're listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u184	Mr President, what Mr Kammenos said has been heard on television. For me, the Minutes are about the history of the future and you poorly deleted them, because the history of the future must see what demagogues and liars ruled Greece. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Will you give me the floor on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u185	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u186	Listen. Mr. Kammenos...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u187	Then Mr. Kammenos will be given the floor if he so requests.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u188	Mr. Kammens argued that I too "..." in some way, because as a working journalist at the "ELEVERO TYPES" I was getting my salary when "ELEVEROS TYPOS" was receiving some loans. So it says that '...' and I '...'. Look, we can't compare. My course is well known. I haven't bought Amin Danda's Mercedes either. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Of course - because we now need to get to know people again - I said that it is a great deal of courage to have Mr Kammenos appear every time in the House while he was gone. Where was Erdogan here? He went back to war, just after the enemy left. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA and ANEL wings]] Excuse me, he's gone to Thrace now! He didn't tell us if he agreed to elect the mufts! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u189	These last ones, they're not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u190	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u191	You said something else. You have often said the word '...' and I think you will willingly agree to delete it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u192	Delete what you want!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u193	Delete from the Minutes. We're not kidding.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u194	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u195	Here, Mr President, make a comment and close.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u196	Mr. President, I've never had a car by Amin Dada. Journalists write it down. Mr. Metaxas was the car. As far as the helmet is concerned, I was older and I was walking for Mrs. Vulture. [[Laughing - applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I was taking her for a walk, Mrs. Swimming around in the past.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u197	What? It's me?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u198	But it's not a deposition crime.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u199	I got smaller. My property has fallen, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u200	He's a liar! I've never been on his worm!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u201	I'm telling you, this isn't a deposition crime. For God's sake!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u202	But he's a liar! I've never been!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u203	So you disobeyed it. Mr President, Mrs Vulture disagrees. I would ask the debate to proceed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u204	I'll show you pictures.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u205	But I've never been! He's a liar!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u206	Please! We're not happy! Go on, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u207	Mr President, because Mrs Vulture referred to the Turkish President's visit, saying that I disappeared, I would like to say that I am the Minister of National Defence and my job was to be in the naval exercise. President Erdogan came here so that we can find a solution for coexistence, a solution in which the two peoples can live harmoniously, without implying that the Greek Armed Forces, if necessary and if the national sovereignty of the country is ever threatened, will resign because of a visit by a president. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I understand that the logic that Mrs Vultesis serves is the logic of the Zeebecks and the best mans. It is also true that foreign policy is being pursued and that we are dancing Zeebeka and Chefettes along with the Presidents!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u208	Thank you. There is another reason why we are now stopping this debate here. The reason is that children have been here watching us from the top Western theories. So, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, thirty-one students and students and two educational sessions from the 1st Gymnasium Tripoli. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The extra reason is that it's from our country, Tripoli. Be well, guys. Everything you watched was an afternoon. I very much ask the President of the Democratic Group of the PASOK Association - DIMAR Mr. Fotini Gennamata to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Mr President. The debate we had previously reminded us of some old Greek films, of the type "I've got a sharper one, let's go for a walk". [[Laughers in the Chamber]] After that, then, the crisis in the left wing of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, let us say no truth about the substance of this budget. The budget you have tabled, ladies and gentlemen of the government, is undevelopmental, because it is anti-grassroots. And he's an anti-grass, just because he's anti-developer. What's she predicting? Once again, it provides for new taxes, increased contributions to freelance professionals, new production costs and, of course, new reductions in the funds for the socially weak groups. It is another budget that undermines growth and leads to new extermination charges for Greek households. All your budgets have been tragically failed. Why? Because they were unable to cultivate a sense of optimism in the world of work and production, before all. They have not been able to give growth dynamics to the economy. Of course, you were unable to inspire a sense of security for Greek citizens. It is a failure on both criteria, which can be judged by budgets: as accounting texts, financial management in principle, but also as instruments for conducting economic and social policy. For this reason, it is true, firstly, that tax revenues and, in particular, they have fallen short of them. This is indicative of the extreme overtaxation, which has now exhausted the burden-sharing capacity of the citizens. How'd it get covered? It has been covered by occasional and non-permanent inputs, whose efficiency will not be repeated in the coming periods. It is therefore precisely the accounting asymmetry that characterises the 2018 budget. It provides for an increase of 2.5%, while increasing revenues and cutting expenditure on a total of EUR 2 billion and, of course, creating a surplus of EUR 7 billion. Not only have you learned absolutely nothing from the failures of previous years, but you repeat them, in the worst possible way. Because you, a philosopher - supposedly - party, what are you doing? You are increasing the ratio of direct taxes last year. In other words, raise the indirect taxes that directly hit the popular wallet. Your failure to collect direct taxes by EUR 1 billion in 2017, is running now? In the enlargement of indirect taxes on consumption, i.e. in particular, as I said before, taxes which affect both the poor and the rich horizontal. The second aspect of the budget, as I said before, is the basic instrument for increasing economic and social policy, how is it measured? It is measured by the effects on the social well-being of the people, but also on the productive and development potential of the place. Before entering into the unexplained celebrations of the last, supposedly, memorandum budget, you should explain, ladies and gentlemen of the government, what was your reason to become king's, because you are burdening the Greek taxpayer from 2016 to 2018, with more than EUR 7.5 billion indebted primary surplus. You are thus creating an incredible tax suffocation, you are exacerbating the economic climate, and you are driving the economy, once again, to a dead end. The tragic failure of your budgets, the bankruptcy of your economic policy also proves to be another element. What's that? That about four million Greeks cannot fulfil their obligations towards the public, as I said before, their burden-sharing capacity has been exhausted. And the worst of that, is that a million of these Greek citizens are threatened with seizures, on your own responsibility, on your own initiative, with your own signature. What about the consequences? Take the trouble to read just the reports of the competent bodies and bodies: Finally, saving for households. Only one out of ten has the ability to put money aside from us says IOBE and ADI record that only in September, in a month, four hundred ten thousand citizens, four hundred thousand VAVs do not serve their public debts, cannot have tax information. None of this bothers you? None of this breaks the image, the virtual reality, that you're trying to present, all these days in here? You have really submerged the economy in debt and despair, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA - ANEL. It is therefore clear that we are voting against this budget. Reproducing stagnation, grey condition. I believe that this is indeed the last budget that your government brings. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stand up and answer two extremely critical questions: The first, with Mr Tsipras' policies, is the country actually being driven out of the memoranda? And second, are we finally heading out of the crisis? I respond to the first unequivocally 'no', why? Because the SYRIZA - ANEL government has signed a hard commission. How? With the commitment in the medium term to unreserved primary surpluses of 3,5% of GDP by 2022, the commitment to continue this terrible tax raid for at least five years, the commitment to grant national wealth to the surplus fund, which is controlled by lenders for ninety years, the commitment to a country's commission and, in particular, high surpluses by 2060, to voting for new cuts to seven hundred thousand main pensions in 2019, new measures of 1,8 billion euro in 2018 and, of course, the drastic reduction in duty, which is now being discussed earlier than 2020, for 2019. The only reason why this assessment did not add new measures is very simple, because all of this, quite simplely given by your Government, in advance, both for 2018 and 2019 and for 2020. And all this, without any real commitment to the write-down and restructuring of public debt. On the contrary, Mr Tsipras has now suddenly discovered that it is not necessary for the country to join the quantitative relaxation. I would remind you, however, of his words here in the 2017 budget debate. I read the exact quote of Mr. Tsipras. 'In the coming months' he said 'it is expected to close the second assessment and the debt measures, the accession of our country to the quantitative relaxation programme of the European Central Bank'. "It is" he said "a fact that will help restore normality, leading to a gradual lifting of all restrictions on the transfer of capital". I'm closing the quote. The result is well known to everyone. Neither debt restructuring nor integration into the quantitative relaxation programme, the one which last year itself was the first goal of his Government. But, as our people say, when in Europe for the rest of the countries rained money, Mr. Tsipras had come out with an umbrella. This is the reality of the supposed success of your government. A monkey's exit, under conditions of diligence, hard measures of austerity, domination of conservative policies. I come immediately to the second question, which was, if we are finally coming out of the crisis. Oh, no. We cannot talk about a safe and definitive exit from the crisis under conditions of anemical development, whose objectives are constantly being reviewed downwards and poverty threatening all and larger parts of the Greek people. Just think that, for the years 2015 to 2017, the projected growth would reach about 10% of GDP, of course before the Tsipras - Kammenos government latitude arrives. Now we're talking about developing 1.6% in 2017. Take your conclusions. Outside the crisis and conditions of the middle-class poverty simply don't go hand in hand. Exodus from the crisis is not achieved by exterior taxation and unfavorable contributions for professionals and small and medium-sized enterprises, i.e. measures that ultimately undermine their competitiveness and their very prospects of survival. Citizens' dues to the state amount to EUR 100 billion. Debt to the insurance funds reaches 30 billion. Small and medium-sized enterprises are being tested and threatened with a padlock. The Greek farmers have been abandoned in their judgment. Outside the crisis is not achieved, with banks that are not yet able to finance the Greek economy. And, of course, exiting the crisis, without significant investments, without the creation of new jobs, it is simply not possible. But how's that gonna happen? From a government that undermines every investment? For chasing what's produced and created? From the Greek, Halkidiki, Kassiopi, Corfu? What do we want to do in this Chamber first? The public investment programme, which was cut in 2017 by 818 million euros? From the famous SYRIZA - ANEL development law that the Prime Minister has so far not put a single euro on the market. No major project has been launched with funding from the current NSRF. In fact, only the projects carried over from the programming period 2007-2013 are in progress. And you have proclaimed that you will settle the loans of four hundred thousand businesses. And here, from what we understand, a shipwreck. It is characteristic that in 2016, investments in Greece were in a low 20-year period. We are at 50% in relation to investment rates in all the other European countries. The country's competitiveness has now fallen into the eighty-seventh place in the world. So your appeals, Mr. Tsipras, are not enough at international conferences. And, of course, there are not enough dubious political seriousness reports on the land of opportunity for investment. It's late for tears, Alexis, as we would say. The new account by Mr Tsipras is the new political deception attempted against the citizens. With his method, Mr. Tsipras, while virtually leaving the memorandum, has in fact installed a memorandum of duration. Ladies and gentlemen, I now come to issues relating to social policy, because I believe that a lasting national objective - it is the main parameter out of the crisis - must be social cohesion. The government is talking about fair growth, of course about words. But, to see what the reality is, what the truth is. Firstly, in addition to the taxes and the reduction of the Public Investment Programme, what else did the government rely on to achieve the high primary surpluses? Reduce health and welfare expenditures. It does the same with the 2018 budget. The estimate of expenditure on insurance, care, social protection is reduced by EUR 1.6 billion in a suffering country that collapses the National Health System. Grants are reduced both to EEAS and to hospitals and to the Ministry of Health. Secondly, does the claim that all the unpleasant things are happening do not ultimately affect the economically weak? This disguises your budget itself, because only the non-preferential ones are affected: the increase in indirect taxes by EUR 473 million, the abolition of tax exemptions for medical expenses, the abolition of tax rebates for employees and pensioners, the increase in VAT to thirty-two Aegean islands. We have heard today - the government is leaking - that it will give an extension of six months. Let go of the patches. We have tabled a specific law proposal and I challenge you all to take a position today. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] The increase in the contribution for freelance professionals by EUR 53 million in 2018 and EUR 124 million in 2019, the abolition of social benefits for sensitive categories, such as unprotected children and new entrants, the reduction of 50% of the budget allocated for the payment of heating allowance and, of course, the new cuts in the ESA minus EUR 234 million and, of course, the provision for its total abolition in 2019. This is what the cuts in the three-tiers and the multitude are, and of course, the lifting of the first large part of the small and medium-sized borrowers. Now, Mr. Tsipras appears to be advising the banks, but there's no reason to make Pontius Pilate. You have an absolute responsibility for what is happening today, exclusively responsibility. So, whoever really cares, as I said before, has nothing but to support our proposal, which he says? Firstly, protection of first homes on conditions of income and assets in order to protect the small and medium-sized borrowers, who have actually been affected by the crisis. Secondly, maintaining the reduced VAT on the islands, which is still in force now and, thirdly, setting up a intergroup working committee for the preparation and immediate deposit of proposals for support for the islands in application and Article 101 of the Constitution. So vote on our proposal. We owe this to both the economically weak and also to our islands. And I come to the third: Exodus from the crisis means, above all, a substantial reduction in unemployment, with decent jobs and not policies, leading to the sharing of a position in two and the domination of flexible forms of employment. More than one in the two recruitments of 2017 was part-time. Five hundred and eighty-two thousand workers live on wages to about 400 euros. They are sad situations, which are mainly discouraged by the new generation seeking an opportunity abroad. The problem is not treated with bonamadas. If you really want to help young people find a job, finally take advantage of our proposal to subsidise stable jobs in the private sector. So you can open up opportunities, especially for the new children of this place. The conclusion is that we do not have growth and social justice is not being promoted. Ten you get, one you return to the citizens. Social policy Tsipras became the charity of the rulers. How many years behind us are you finally coming back? Only an account for the privileged corpses you haven't done, like Friederiki. You'll be there soon. [[Protests from the wing of SYRIZA]] The SYRIZA - ANEL Government is effectively abolishing the social state. With this policy, there is no prospect of exiting from the crisis and a better future for Greek women and Greeks. The only thing that this government is trying to do, through squabbles of logic and practices, is to stay as much as possible in the chairs of power. That is the truth that the budget itself highlights. Another hard reality that needs to be pointed out - and let us take note of this - is that the next time our country is also called upon to implement the hard commitments that Mr Tsipras has made, but also to stand without help on its feet, covering its credit needs from the markets. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now clear that the country, in order to come out of the memoranda and the crisis, urgently needs a change of policy that goes through the defeat of today's government and its removal. It is clear, of course, that exit from the crisis will not be guaranteed simply by a government change. The exit from the crisis requires a comprehensive plan, a national line for a new production model, which will actually lead to sustainable growth, attracting healthy investments and producing new wealth in the country. It also requires a bold political implementation of a fair distribution of this wealth, which supports the middle-class and radically reduces social inequalities. For us it is fundamental - and this is why unnecessarily - that the fight against unemployment, social justice and cohesion and, of course, decent wages and working conditions. It requires, of course, profound changes, overthrows and reforms in what sets the country apart, our reflections with client cultures and all kinds of interests, which currently lack capacity and resources from the whole of society. It requires the undeniable struggle against tax evasion, smuggling, black political money. It requires transparency for everyone and everywhere in all areas of political life. So we will recover lost credibility towards the world and also to the partners. This is the main prerequisite for ensuring debt restructuring and a reduction in primary surpluses, in order to free resources to boost growth, social policy and targeted reasonable reductions in tax and insurance contributions. Here I would like to refer to the differences in our proposals with those of the New Democracy. The New Democracy, despite the new effort to appear as a people's right again, follows an increasingly right-wing policy, trapped in its old traditional logic. It is no coincidence that Mr Mitsotakis refers to the incentives for the economically strong and systematically forgetting the issues of redistribution for the reduction of social inequalities. It does not refer to the need to support small and medium-sized enterprises. It is no coincidence that even for the auctions relating to the people's homes, what did the New Democracy find out? Just go a little later and the homes of the weakest to follow along the way. It is no accident how they continue to insist on cutting public spending on social and development infrastructures, particularly public education and public health. Yes, well, at the shrinking of waste, at the reduction of waste, but not at the slowing down of social affairs expenditure. We need policies with visible motives, which our children are particularly able to convince us that they deserve to stay here and fight at home. [[This is where the closed doorbell of the speaker's speaking time is ringing.]] Ladies and gentlemen - and I am closing with this in less than a minute, Mr President - these are the challenges that we have before us. We must all respond to them in order to turn hope and optimism to this place and to Greek citizens and to stop their feelings of wrath, indignation and shame. This defines the responsibility and the obligation that the political system as a whole has to deal with the place. In particular, however, it identifies the responsibility of pro-European forces. We have a duty to ensure national understanding. The national agreement, ladies and gentlemen, does not necessarily match government cooperation, because it is quite simply going beyond it. It combines the necessary political stability with the equally urgent need for progressive governance of the site. But let's talk clearly. The period of the small and mismanagement of the two-partisan society is a definitive part of the past. Politics is changing. New realities are being created. [[Applause]] Those who insist on seeking convenient government supplements and conquerors of power are not in contact with the new reality, which exists in the country and in the political system. We say, then, not to those who are trying to serve their micro-participatory interests, seeking political fronts of all kinds, but to divide them. We have a front open to maintenance and populism. We believe that the time has come to unite at last and not to continue to divide the Greek citizens, the Greek people, with the Change Movement, the new real hope for the place on the front line of this effort. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u210	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gennamas. The Vice-President of the Government, Mr Ioannis Drasakis, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u211	Mr President, after Mrs Gennamas, I cannot comment on the fact from the twenty-third minute of her speech until the twenty-fifth time she dealt with New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u212	You said such a clever thing!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u213	Mr. Kegeroglou, you react locally because Mr. Drasakis is Heraklion. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u214	Did he have a lot to do or something?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u215	Mr. Vice President, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u216	Nevertheless, I have to say that in half a minute and a half Mrs Gennamas said a few important things. In fact, I have this question to ask you, Mrs. Gennamas. If you were to fill out the questionnaires shared by the members of the New Democracy, what would you say about the social state? Would you respond to support or privatisation of the social state? Are these pro-European forces in favour of or against the fight against inequalities and poverty? I come to what I wanted to say, and I want to focus on three, in my opinion, critically on the situation. The first concerns the end of the memoranda, the second concerns the memorandum regime, and the third concerns how the new possibilities created will become a matter for the citizens, how people will benefit. Is it possible to get out of the memorials, as the government is seeking? Or should we seek a credit line, as I think Mr Venizelos suggested yesterday? Or should we continue to borrow from the ESM by agreeing a new memorandum or offering themselves willingly to implement a memorandum, as Mr Mitsotakis was suggesting, if he hadn't said explicitly, from time to time? As regards the second issue at issue, the second group of questions, the question is how will the new landscape be formed after the memoranda? With what valued and political compass will we go to avoid fiscal derailment and other pathogens in the future? And that is what Mrs Gennamas is right - to refer again to her speech - that we are abstaining from the end of the crisis, because to get out of the crisis, we will have to face the causes and not just its consequences. The third group of questions is also critical. In what way will the possibilities that are starting to appear as early as today, but much longer after the end of the memoranda and surveillance, be exploited to improve life, especially those who have been most affected by the crisis? As far as the first group of questions is concerned, the net exit from the memoranda has to say that it is neither the result of an automatic pilot. It's our plan. It's our choice. And we need to be aware that there were other possible forces that otherwise wanted to develop. In particular, there were three possible, three options. The first option was, as I have already said, that we continue to borrow from the ESM constantly, because that is where the interest rate is lower and because, as some people say, the cultural model of Greece is such that only after external pressure can we have budgetary stability. These were the arguments of those who supported this choice. These views have been withdrawn from the table of political debates, but they have not ceased to exist abroad, but also within the country, and that explains the convenience with which some domestic forces have been enthusiasticly welcomed, I would say, and the Memorandums and the Committee. The second option was that of exiting markets through a credit line. It is the solution that it sought, without success, the Samara government in 2014. If we chose this, it would mean again, if not a new memorandum, certainly new commitments beyond what we have already taken, and that is why we rejected it. We have therefore chosen the third option and the clear exit, which means going out on the markets, having already formed a reserve of funds that will shield the country against unforeseen threats. In fact, this reserve - some of it - could be debated to keep it and then as a permanent stability fund, at least until the European zone has institutions to borrow asymmetric shock and asymmetric shocks. It was not easy, nor was it initially accepted by everyone. It was also not certain that it could be achieved without joining the QE, in the Bond Market Programme by the European Central Bank. The positive developments in the economy, however, the government's decisive attitude and the favourable international context make the net exit possible. But it will require insistence and support to the end. It would be useful in this respect to become more clear and the attitude of Officer Representation and all the political forces in this regard. I personally believe that the objective for clean exit from the memoranda can and must have the broadest political support, because it is the most advantageous option for both the country and the people. I now come to the second question concerning the regime after the memoranda. Some people are, in my opinion, consciously cultivating a confusion, a levelling-up that, after the memorials, we will have - we have already heard it - and after the comitology, we will have a comitology. Unfortunately, this isotopeism has sometimes been adopted by parts of the wider left-hand area. But what do the representatives of the old system of power, the old bipartisanism, want when they cultivate this confusion? They're trying to say it's all the same and everyone's the same. They want to hide their own responsibilities for the country's bankruptcy, for the poverty of the people, for the giganticity of corruption and interlocutory over their days. With their confusion they want to say that they do not have greater responsibilities than the one who has led the country to bankruptcy, but the one trying to get it out of bankruptcy. They are trying to bring those same denominator, who are struggling with strife and corruption daily with those who have excavated it, favored it over their days, or have been unable to cope with it over their days, those who have allowed the banks to be loaded with red loans without doing absolutely nothing. The current government is the first government to try to create an institutional framework for reducing red loans. This reversal of reality has a clear political aim and ideological reference, which is why it must not be ignored by any left power. As far as the memorial regime is concerned, the truth is that in August 2018 the memorials end and the system ends the comitology regime that accompany them. The new arrangement will be determined not by a special scheme, which concerns Greece alone, but by the common rules applicable to all countries which entered into a programme. The responsibility for forming policy rests on us, on the elected government and on the institutions of Greek democracy. The exit from the memorials, of course, does not mean that all the problems created by the crisis have been overcome. On the contrary, I would say that the long-term consequences of some of these problems, such as demographics, such as prolonged deinvestment, such as the expansion of inequalities, may not have been fully realised. That is precisely why the end of the memorials is not the end of the road for us, but it is an important station, a clearing that allows us to rebuild our powers as a society and as a country, and to design the future on our own responsibility. I'm coming to the next question. But what policies can this work take? Can neoliberalism be the future for our society when, where it was applied, it proved to be a greenhouse of explosive inequality and thermostat of the extreme right? Or is the mixture of nationalism - neoliberalism, as I have heard Mr Samaras say - a credible substitute for it? Or is a line of equal distances and the avoidance of dilemmas, as Mrs Gennamas does, a solution? Many ask: What does it mean to me, the simple man, the end of the memorial? Does it mean I can get a job tomorrow? Does it mean that my salary will be increased? Does it mean that my life will be improved? The answer is that they will not be solved immediately in all the problems, but that there will be more possibilities. The final result for the citizens will be judged, first of all, by what we are creating with our policy and, secondly, by the political will, which must be in place, so that these possibilities can be exploited for the benefit of the many. The crucial issue, that is, which political forces will ultimately and with what policy will take advantage of these possibilities. Will they be powers which promote the needs of many, such as the current government, or will we return to statusal logic, which we remember from the past, where the service of the other parties prevailed? Will the restoration of injustices begin from the bottom up, as does the current government? Or will they start from the penthouses and be forgotten there, like so many times before? SYRIZA is the political force, which not only wants, but has every reason - not to say an interest - to overcome the past. We are here, ladies and gentlemen, because we have conflicted and conflicted with what this past expresses. SYRIZA is the force that can make the necessary ruptures. It is the power that has a plan for the future, for the country's productive reconstruction, for the creation of a new model of sustainable and fair development, a plan which we are discussing with the people, with the regions, which is increasingly taking an integrated and specific form. SYRIZA is the political force, which has brought political stability to a country and to a society that lives an unprecedented crisis. That is why the government, supported by both SYRIZA and the ANELs and Economists, has proved to be the most stable parliamentary majority since the start of the crisis. Despite budgetary constraints, despite the tough comitology, this government has demonstrated in these three years that, when there is will, when the political will exists, there is always a way to respect the principle of justice. And quite a few of the budget measures confirm this, such as the yield of the social dividend, which exceeds EUR 720 million, the establishment of the social income of solidarity, an institution that should have been created in the years of rising and now created and which covers seven hundred thousand of our fellow citizens, the increase in the budget for family allowances, the provision of thirty thousand of daily school meals and much more. So the budget we are discussing is related to all three questions which I have raised. His vote and faithful observance are a precondition for getting out of the memorials. At the same time, however, the implementation of the budget contributes to the formation of the memorandumary landscape and the service of the citizens. With the withdrawal of the recession, with the recovery of the economy, with the removal of the blockade of our country from the markets, at the end of the comitology, there are possibilities. Our government, the SYRIZA - ANEL - Obstacles Government, is the guarantee that these possibilities, large or small, will always be used for the benefit of society, for the benefit of the weak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u217	Thank you very much Mr. Drasakis. I call on Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u218	Ladies and gentlemen, these days have been completed three years since Stavros Dimas' attempt to elect the President of the Republic has become fruitless. The result is well known to everyone. The country was led to early elections. SYRIZA and ANEL have intently defeated, from party point of view, the presidential election and not because the lenders wanted it, as the President of Parliament said or as the President of the House said. So let us say this clearly, because this has happened, Mr Tsipras, and Mr Tsipras and gentlemen of the Coupling. You who said to Genarris that you were every word of the Constitution, a month earlier, you had enjoyed the Constitution in the worst way, working on the presidential election. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And you have thrown the previous government into good cooperation with the Golden Dawn, with Mr. Kouvelis, to come, after a catastrophic semester, to implement the hardest memorial policies that the country has ever experienced. You made fun of the Greek people twice. You were elected the first time as memorialists and the second as memorialists. You failed twice. The first time you've cost us 100,000,000. The cost of your second failure, however, Mr Tsipras, will be paid by the Greek citizens - no matter how smiling - for many more years. We are the only European country that still remains in memoirs and we are the economy at the lowest rate of growth in the Eurozone. Unless Mr. Voutiss with this interesting revulsion meant something else, some lenders are pleased today that a populist motif was turned into their most persuasive organ. In other words, some may be pleased, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, because you have become an example with your behaviour to avoid their own populists. How'd you say that, Mr. Tsipras once? 'Useful idiots'. One thing is certain. Third chance the people won't give you. You failed as remembrances, failed as managers of the memorandum. You have failed - unfortunately for the country - everywhere and in everything and yet you have learned nothing from your mistakes. You, Minister of Finance, who like these ratios, remember what Einstein said about the definition of insanity, don't you? "Do the same things and wait for different results." That's exactly what you're doing, unfortunately. Your budget repeats the same failed recipe. It is another budget of austerity, another budget of deep anti-development, another budget of taxes, many taxes, an unjust budget and, ultimately, an anti-grass budget. The government has failed miserably, and Greece is dragging today. Every Greek and every Greek knows that. The vast majority of the Greeks are overtaxed, they can't afford it any more and they don't deserve another lost time after so many sacrifices. The Greek people deserve much better, but you and your government can't even guarantee him the basics. And for three years you've been hiding the real problem. You still lie consciously today, you have no solutions and, unfortunately, Greece is where it is. The Greek people have already paid you. And as if that were not enough, the 2018 budget is also increasing the bill. That is why the citizens also hope and hope that the budget that will be voted on today will be your last budget. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, for the past five days - with an unusual parliamentary custom and custom - the MPs and executives of SYRIZA and ANEL repeat three unscrupulous allegations. I heard them just now by the Vice-President of the Government, Mr Drasakis, first of all, that the economy is supposedly over-burdening. Secondly, we're supposed to come out of the memorials. Thirdly, all this is supposed to have some social significance. I will prove in my speech that all these three claims are false. The economy is not just over-performing, but rather falls out on all the main objectives, with this rate of growth more importantly. Clear exit from the memorials - we have heard him and today this term - does not exist. Measures have already been legislated by you for 2019 and 2020 and excessive budgetary constraints have already been put in place by at least 2022. And everyone knows that there will be a special increased surveillance after August 2018, which will be linked and whatever solution is given to the debt. Who, however, is particularly affected by this disastrous and unscrupulous policy of yours? I have said this again: the biggest victims of your policy today are our economically weakest citizens, not only because they are not protected, but because they are poor every day. And that is what happens when you are conscious of the middle class, which is something you have even admitted and without any particular difficulty in this Chamber. But let's start over. The government claims that there is over-performance of the economy. In order to substantiate this, it claims that the objectives of the surplus should be exceeded. It's a lie. After two years of recession, which was the result of the disastrous choices of the current government, the Greek economy now has an anemic rate of growth that is far below its real potential. Over-performance means going better than appreciation. But here, not only does the economy go better than the estimates, but on the contrary it goes much worse than your original forecasts. So there is no over-performance of the economy. Overtaxation, yes, there is. Unnecessary austerity, yes, there is. There is, of course, a surplus of social injustice. The only super-performance you have achieved is about your own failure. So let's go see the real facts. In 2017, it is expected to close with lower growth, lower private consumption, lower public consumption, less investment and a lower external balance than last year's forecast. In simple terms, once again you fell out. The target of 2017 for growth rate, the most important, the most decisive size - I do not need to remind you of it - who was it, Mr Tsipras? It was 2.7%. It is expected to close to 1.3%, to 1.4%, to 1.5%, if we have an extremely good fourth quarter of 2017, that is, to say very simply, half of the original forecast. Every two months you were reviewing the targets downwards, when - be careful - in the Eurozone every two months the targets were revised upwards. We are the only Eurozone country that takes steps back when everyone else goes forward. I have here a very interesting table - I would like you to then give it to the Minister of Finance - which shows what the initial development forecasts were and how these objectives, Mr Chakaloto, have been revised for all European countries. You see there's a big exception here. It's an exception alone, Greece. One single exception, the economy with the lowest rate of growth in the Eurozone. Please give the painting to Mr. Tsakalotos and Mr. Tsipras to admire his achievements. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] For the International Monetary Fund, we are also a negative development surprise, because for your days Greece was unable to use historically low interest rates and abundant liquidity on the international markets. It has not been able to exploit low oil prices and an extremely favourable macroeconomic environment in our main trading partners. At this juncture we lost it, Mr. Tsipras. Of course, we have lost a unique development opportunity for Greece over the past three years. So that, Mr Tsipras, is not called over-performance by anyone in any dictionary. This is called a complete failure in terms of your development policy and has only your signature. Only you can talk about over-efficiency and systematically underestimate the intelligence of society itself. Let's go see the rest of the budget. Investments: What was the objective, Mr Tsakalote, that you had in the budget? It was 9.1%. Where are we? 5.1 percent. Private consumption. What was the prediction, Minister? It was 1.8%. Where are we? 0.9%. Public investments: They have decreased by 800 million compared to the target, with the expected impact on the development of the country and, of course, the outstanding debts continue to increase. I would like to remind you here that the previous government had reduced its debts by EUR 6 billion over two years. You have, in a longer time, managed to increase them by half a billion, even though you have received 5 billion loans specifically for their repayment. Of course, people's tax debts exceeded the astronomical sum of EUR 100 billion. The tax office owes four million two thousand fellow citizens. One in two Greeks is now captive of their debts. I'm talking about it again so we can figure it out. Half Greek families cannot currently afford to pay their taxes. The truth, then, is that Greece is a country cut in half, with a society amputated. However, it is also distorting that the government's account of overcrowding the budget is supposedly proof of the success of government policy. Can a phosphite from the financial staff explain to me why we need to produce more surpluses than our creditors ask us? Why should we in recession deprive ourselves of resources from the real economy, or why should we give arguments to some of our creditors, who tell us the simple word: After you are making such high primary surpluses, surpluses, what do you want from debt reduction, since you can respond yourself to the need to serve it? So there is only one explanation for this conscious choice to produce very large surpluses. You want the surpluses to come and share some benefits, unfortunately copying the worst customer logic of post-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-mulse. On the one hand, you get ten to give back to the other pocket, one. Because the inappropriate surpluses of 2016 and 2017 are a product of the unacceptable overtaxation of production in Greece. The Government argued among other things that the surplus was based on revenues from the reduction of unemployment. Yes, sir. And that is a lie, because what has happened over the last two years - and everyone knows it - is that full-time jobs are lost and part-time jobs are created or rotated. So I'll tell you with numbers. Six out of ten - 60% - new jobs created are parttime jobs. So I ask this: does that bring more revenue?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u219	What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u220	You who are good at mathematics, I imagine you know that two employees of 350 euros contribute to the funds as much as a 700 euro employee. This is why the rate of unemployment is actually falling, but without an increase in total incomes. That is why the Fund's revenues are not increased in a sustainable way. They are growing in time because of the double contributions you have made to the free traders. But let us also consider another government lie, namely that over-excession came partly because of the limitation of corruption and tax evasion. I wish it were! Unfortunately, however, it is not because your performance, gentlemen of the government, in the fight against tax evasion and smuggling are nonexistent. Election, how much did you promise? You promised EUR 3 billion from tax evasion, if I remember well, in six months. According to official figures from the Ministry of Finance, you received less than EUR 100 million in 30 months. By the way, since I have you here, Minister of Finance, because we do not meet very often in this House...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u221	I'm here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u222	Oh, yeah. The truth is, it's you. The Prime Minister entered the Chamber for the first time, making me truly impressed. His first appearance in the budget debate was in the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u223	Where were you? Did you hear any speech?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u224	Quiet, please. Mr. Chakalato, the misunderstanding has been resolved. Quiet. Go ahead, Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u225	You who are so interested in limiting tax evasion, on the issue of illegal online gambling will finally do something or for all those who have their'servers' in Malta and say that they are coming to Greece, that the income tax declarations for these companies are voluntary? Or is it because in recent years they have had an accidental media that supports the government, will some continue to tax? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So do you dare talk about a complication? Are you talking about complication?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u226	What have you been doing for so many years?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u227	Please, Mr Balaura, don't ask questions. There will be no answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u228	Let me tell you what we didn't do. We weren't celebrating with canalarchs when the property of the canals was changed! [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA and ANEL wings]] We didn't do that! Oh, no! That's what you did!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u229	With Christ's arms, aren't you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u230	Please, be quiet and don't interrupt. Go on, Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u231	Look, I understand your nervousness. [[Laughers from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I'll explain it to you. You know that many of you in a few months from now will not be Members of Parliament, but at least until this happens, behave with dignity! Respect Parliament!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u232	We don't have a problem. What if you're not?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u233	Please, you don't need any calls.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u234	Not only are you intertwined, but you're playing for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u235	That's for laughing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u236	All this, while overtaxing leads to an increase in tax evasion and a further reduction in public revenues, because tax revenues, directly and indirectly, are falling. Unfortunately, the income declared is also reduced. See what happened with the free professionals who declared 25% lower income than the previous year. The result of this, the increase in taxes and the increase in contributions. The European Commission finds an increased tax evasion despite the use of electronic transactions due to capital control. So with your policies, not only, we have not had a reduction in tax evasion, but whoever is currently moving on the real market knows that, unfortunately, tax evasion is constantly growing. How, then, did the surplus occur? Let us say it again to you and the Greek citizens who are listening to us. No, it did not result from the over-performance of the economy, but from taxation, from the ruthless tax and insurance attack on everything, from the seizures on a million citizens and businesses with seven hundred other citizens located in the risk zone, from the extended internal posture, from the deliberate delay in the award of three hundred thousand main and supplementary pensions, from the reduction of investment costs by 800 million and, of course, from the under-financing of social expenditure, which you had budgeted, but you did not actually implement, which Mr Costello also said a few days ago. All this has naturally been recorded in the update of the memorandum that has recently seen the light of publicity. So this is the truth of the supposed over-excession, the so-called over-performance of the economy. And the small benefits you pay, unfortunately, do not change that reality. We are now going to the government's second claim, the claim that Mr. Tsipras's new great lie, the supposedly clean exit from the memorandum in August 2018. Your Government has already put the country in a fourth memorandum with measures of EUR 5.1 billion, with a commitment to tax reduction, reduction of pensions and high surpluses by 2020. So what clean exit do you talk about when there are digitised measures for after 2018? I would like to ask you, Mr Tsipras, a very simple question. Please answer your speech. Did Cyprus, Ireland, Portugal, when they came out of the memoranda have the same status as Greece as they had a binding framework? Yes or no? I'll answer you, and I challenge you to deny me if you can. Have these countries also voted in advance for measures after the end of the programme? No, it's the answer. Did they vote for surpluses of 3.5% for five years? No, it's the answer. Was there for these countries the strict surveillance framework that is being discussed for Greece? No, it's the answer. Are there any in these capital control countries? You know the answer, I think. Oh, no. It is a Greek uniqueness the capital control, which continues to apply and hamper Greek businesses. Clearly, therefore, leaving the memoranda, Mr Tsipras, will only be achieved when we do what Cyprus, Ireland, Portugal, when they came out of their own memoranda, without preconceived measures for the future, without suffocating surveillance, without a commitment to overcompensation for taxpayers and the extermination of the economy. In Europe, of course, it is 'they have a tombone'. I will tell you that officials of the Commission are speaking openly about something that looks like a new memorandum. They baptize it hybrid. Hybrid, this is the new terminology used. Mr Drasakis told us that the status of Greece would be the same as the other countries. Vizier: "Greece will remain under strict supervision for many more years". That's what he told you. I'm filing it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u237	Are you with Mr. Visner or with the country?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u238	I'm with Greece. You guys don't know who you are after all. I tell you what they say, so that you do not take a selective look at the statements made by the Europeans. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Unfortunately, because of you there is a risk that every positive prospect will be lost. As all the objectives set by Mr Tsipras are lost. I would remind you, Mr Tsipras, what Mrs genome said. It's worth repeating, because it wasn't Mr. Tsipras in the Chamber, so he might not have heard of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u239	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u240	So listen to it now. So I will tell you, Mr Tsipras, what you were saying in the debate just a year ago from this step: 'The next few months are expected, with the closure of the second assessment and the debt measures, to include our country in the European Central Bank's quantitative relaxation programme. It is a fact that will help restore normality and also lead to the gradual removal of all restrictions on the transfer of capital.' That's what you said last year. Since then you have stressed many times how hard you negotiated, how many hours you spent to get Greece finally into the quantitative relaxation program, to the well-known QE. You told us how important the QE is, so that Greece can finally borrow at normal interest rates. And you were right, indeed, only because of you lost the QE. This is the case, unfortunately, with your Government every time it negotiates. You give it all away and you don't get anything. Now, be careful. What did you tell us, Mr. Tsipras? Integration into quantitative relaxation is not crucial. Uh, now it's my fault if I tell you a liar? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Or do you prefer the term "assombas", which you have patented. Pick and take. But the reality once again, unfortunately, disguises you. I see that in the last few days you have been celebrating the de-escalation of bond prices. This is indeed a positive development. There are technical reasons why I do not need to analyse in this Chamber. But what you are not telling us is that the country's borrowing rates are too high in relation to those of Cyprus, Portugal and Spain. And since you want to hear them, I want to tell you with numbers to understand them. What is the yield of the ten-year bond? Just under 4% to 3.96%. Where's the bond for Cyprus? The 1.54%. Where's Portugal's bond?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u241	Downstairs, not up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u242	In 2014, how old was it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u243	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u244	It's a tough idea for you. That's hard. You'll understand, though, make a little patience.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u245	Please, be quiet. Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u246	Spain was 1.66%. You see, however, these countries had serious leaderships that got them out of the memoranda an hour ago. You've visited Portugal several times, Mr. Tsipras. I wonder, what do you think, when you see the Socialist Prime Minister - take care, Socialist - of Portugal having these odds?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u247	In 2014, how old was it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u248	Let me remind you of what has happened since 2014 and then, since you want to hear it. Portugal added 11% to its GDP. How much, Mr. Tsipras for your day? Zero. This is a comparison with Portugal, since you want to make comparisons, Mr Tsipras. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And the Portuguese Minister for Finance - otherwise a socialist and celebrated the election of President of the Eurogroup - rightly tells us that the programme will be over and then the debt debate will begin. Your problem, Mr. Tsipras, is not just your ideology. Between you and me, I doubt you have any real ideology. After all, you are reminded by your old companions, Mrs Constantopoulou, Mr Lafazanis. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[Noise in the Chamber]] But you've challenged me now! So now you challenged me because I didn't intend to read it, but I will! So what did Mrs Constantopoulos say to you? I read, it's interesting to hear. President of the House, you made it! We didn't do it. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] What does Mrs. Konstantopoulou say? Listen: "You are a criminal government that identifies the Left with remulsion, opportunism and contempt, poisoning the whole society and the new generations, so that no one believes in anything." And Mr. Lafazanis, of course, and he too was, if I remember correctly, with Mr. Varoufakis, in the first glorious months: "Open mockery of the world by Alexis Tsipras, because people see their lives worse by day." So your problem, Mr. Tsipras, is your unbearable cynicism, it is your endless lies, it is your monumental inability, it is ultimately your deep immorality. And these are elements of character, I'm afraid, they don't change, they don't "shape" and the Greeks know you well anymore. As long as you stay in power, better days for our country won't come. Ladies and gentlemen, behind the 'Greek come back' - as you said, in any case - which you are unfortunately trying to advertise, there are unfortunately a series of time bombs that the next government will need to deactivate, such as the tragic situation in urban transport, the tragic situation in PPC, which is a very worrying lack of liquidity.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u249	Mr. President, please! Be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u250	Be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u251	I'm talking about laughing!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u252	All right, Mr. Stathakis said it in detail yesterday, just displeasing about what he heard. I heard it before. All right, quiet down and listen to the speaker. Alas!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u253	However, the most problematic development, ladies and gentlemen, is in the area of competitiveness, where, unfortunately, our country is constantly retreating. Despite low wages and the collapse of values, on the World Bank's ranking we have six positions on your day. I put the relevant document in the Minutes. Give this to the Minister too, see if he wants to disprove them too. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] All of this, while significant investments have improved. Thousands of jobs are being mobilized. The case of "Greek Gold" in Halkidiki. The privatizations flow, such as the Greek, Kassiopi, Afantou in Rhodes. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Mr President, if you are kind enough to do your job and impose the order in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u254	Please, be quiet! Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u255	Large companies with a history of decades close their factories, Mr. Tsipras, and disinvest, the ice cream factories of 'FRONERI-NESTLE', the sale of olive oil marks by 'ELAIS-UNLEVER'. All of this, while hundreds of enterprises in northern Greece migrate tax or in fact in neighbouring countries. And any investments that were made and made were made with unjustified delays and constant obstacles. And, of course, there are many of the investments that had been launched by the previous governments. Some of you are now being imposed by the lenders. You fought them, and today you are forced to support them. You, however, cannot bring investment in Greece. From ideolepsy, from inability? It's completely indifferent to me now. The result counts. And the result, unfortunately, is depressive. Now let's go to your third big lie, that your policy has social significance, because you as left-wingers are always sensitive to Central Right. So let's go see what you've done these three years. You have imposed twenty-seven new taxes, you have made twenty cuts in pensions and social benefits. You've reduced the tax. The Minister, who said he would resign if the tax was reduced - you have reduced it twice! - and still sit down and scramble your head up. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You cut off the C.E.S.A. You will completely abolish it next year. The beneficiaries and the amounts of the social solidarity allowance have been reduced. You've reduced the heating allowance. Who do all this hurt? Those who are in a difficult position, the weakest. And, of course, in the new 2018 budget, in order not to forget ourselves, there are additional measures of almost EUR 2 billion. One hundred and fifty thousand Armed Forces executives will see cutbacks in their earnings. Two million Greeks will lose tax credit from medical expenses together with every incentive to seek proof, thus reaping tax evasion. Three million employees and pensioners will lose their tax rebate due to the retention of tax at source before it even becomes income. You're cutting family allowances. You reduce your medical expenses and sickness benefits. Who's hurting all this? The weakest, of course. And you will agree, I imagine, with me - because you used to say that when you were in Anti-Population - that indirect taxes are the most unfair, because they disproportionately burden the economically weaker. State budget, page 60, the one you deposited. Table: Direct and indirect taxation. In 2014, for which you were interested, how much was it? It was 1.15. How much is 2017? It's 1,33. I'm filing the relevant table in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The VAT's up. The excise duty on energy products has increased. The tax on coffee, tobacco, cigarettes, alcohol, pay-TV, mobile telephony and the worst is in front of you. The reduction in pensions is ahead of you. The tax reduction is in front of you. The fourth memorandum is in front of you. This is your memorial, the Tsipra - Kammenos Memorial. At the same time, of course, the auctions of all dwellings, including the people. You do this personally, calling 'no house in the hands of a banker!'. This, so we don't forget about it here. You lie when you claim to be protecting the first residence up to 300,000 euros. The truth, Mr Tsipras, is that today there is no horizontal protection for first residence. The truth is that you abolished the provision of n.4224/2013, which fully protected the first residence up to 200,000 euros. Today only the first residence of overdue households subject to the Katseli Act is protected. Everything else is a disgrace. It is shameful to say about people who see their property today in your own days! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The truth is that whoever has not been subjected to the Katseli law is a hundred percent unprotected today, Mr. Tsipras. Since you cannot protect the first home, then, reveal at least the strategic poor payers, so that the opening of the auctions relates first of all to them and not to the citizens you poorly paid. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the budget has shown once again that a heirly governmental majority, who have been breast-feeding in challenging training conditions, cannot restore the country to normality. You have no plan for the country, except how you will remain in power for a few more months. All you care about is building relationships of election clientele with social strata, which - look out! - on the one hand, you pooren them and on the other, go enticing them with Christmas allowances and election aids, at the same time that you continue to make every effort to intrude hatred and intolerance, the same that you serve a new oligarchy, to which you have allowed to enrich and control critical sectors, so that you can diffuse and trade with her, at the same time, instead of compiling the state, you're forgetting it, by sending the account to the Greek taxpayer. Let me look a little further at this. You are kneeling, Mr. Tsipras, the Greeks on taxes. Cut pensions, reduce social costs, share allowances, after you have plucked them out of the citizens' pockets, while building your own party state. You have created a very interesting "industrial" construction of secretaries, general, specialist, deputy, sectoral. Each scribes suddenly came out of your own days. From eighty-one we had, we've reached a hundred and fifty-six. They are all, of course, with post-mortem employees, the support and the costs that all of this entails. You increased the number of posted employees by 30%. It's five hundred seventy-five more. You set up new headsmen' posts and increased the organic positions in the narrow and wider public sector by three thousand and three hundred five with the new presidential decrees you published with the Ministries' organizations. You increased the number of contractors almost 22%. It's thirteen thousand more. And all of these are hostages to your promises of permanentization, against the Constitution, against the laws and against the country's economic situation. You set up forty-eight new state bodies with over a hundred paid board positions. And don't tell me all of these were necessary. Is the Thessaloniki Transport Project Agency necessary, when there is already the Organisation for Urban Transport of Thessaloniki, which you have rushed to state? Is the Public Port Authority necessary when the Port Regulatory Authority already exists? And, of course, my favorite - you've heard it before - National Farm Movement Museum. It is absolutely essential in the country's situation today! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And here, in order to avoid misunderstandings, I want to be quite clear. There's going to be an end to this party state. This abortion is not going to legitimise, nor am I going to promise contracted simulations, to win a few tens of thousands of votes. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Enough with the bankrupt post-multiple policies. Enough of those who, while working the new one, express the worst of yesterday's Greece. If we really want to make a new start, these logics must be put behind us. Greece does not need a modest economic recovery today. It needs a bold radical reconstruction plan and a determined leadership that will implement it, without suspensions, without reservations and certainly without the need for external derogations. Because it will be believed and because this plan will have been approved by the Greek people. Our plan is ready and we are ready to implement it. I presented it at the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki, our 11th Regular Conference approved it. It is based on two main axes. The first is to liberate the creativity of the Greeks from the blockages of state and suffocating taxation, so that with the driving force of the private sector and with the support of a modern, efficient, replicate state to liberate economic growth, gain prosperity. Not loan prosperity, but real, the one based on our own powers, which are many and are untapped. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We can reduce taxes and at the same time contain expenditure. Certainly, we can reduce the state's footprint on the economy and at the same time pursue partnerships with the private sector. Of course, we can make the state and the state smaller and more effective. We know what it takes to attract the investments that the place so badly needs, because we do not see healthy entrepreneurship with suspicion. Because we know that to redistribute wealth, one must first produce it. The second axis, as important, is the dissemination of prosperity throughout society with a firm social solidarity programme, ensuring a high level of social services to all in health, education and social welfare, guaranteeing a decent standard of living for our fellow citizens who face the range of extreme poverty, by extending the minimum guaranteed income, which is, moreover, a policy that the New Democracy first established. I'll tell you at last if you realize it at some point. More effective policy on poverty and social exclusion is not fragmentary benefits, but stable jobs. And these can come only through an investment explosion, mainly in outward sectors, where our country has of course comparative advantages. Investments will only come, if we reduce taxation, simplify the tax system and keep it stable for at least five years, when we dramatically simplify licensing procedures, especially as regards land use, when we restore liquidity to the real economy, when we ensure real legal certainty for all Greeks, large and small, Greek and foreign investors. We are aware of these commitments and can do so. Ladies and gentlemen, I am closing with this observation: Greek society is now locked in a string of anger, pessimism and resignation. From Mr. Tsipras and from his ministers, I expect nothing anymore. The burden of responsibility is inevitably transferred to our own shoulders. More and more Greeks, even those who did not vote for New Democracy, realise that we have both the plan and the determination to get the country out of the crisis. Mostly, however, we have a responsibility to unite the Greek society against false divisions and extreme polarization. Mr. Tsipras, I'll tell you again. There are two Elles, the patriots and the German germans, the memorialists and the antimony, the good and the bad, the rich and the poor. Greece is one and we will not get out of the crisis if we do not join forces and if we do not finally see that this effort is of concern to all of us. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We will get out of the crisis if we find the confidence to look sincerely into the mirror and to make all our self-criticism and the conviction that we can manage, as we have done many times in our history, against the predictions. Mr. Tsipras, you will shortly be on your way to Stepma to tell us that you will do all that you have not been able to do to date or you did not want to do. I don't care what happens from the two. You'll talk to us about growth. You'll talk to us about social justice. You'll talk to us about a clear exit from the memoirs. No one will believe you. Maybe even worse, no one will listen to you. You will, of course, - I am sure - something that is extremely familiar with you. You will attack us again, describing us as 'intertwinners', 'destructors', 'elite', 'fornicators'. [[Noise in the Chamber]] This fact, which you so easily deceive, has proved to have roots in society, because it has a class mark, because it is a genuine folk party. He has history, he has principles, he has values. It has the power to modernise and renew, change, learn from its mistakes, which have the braveness to recognize. And I'm very proud to be her chief. [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from the New Democracy Ward]] And when the time comes, you know that it is not too late, there will indeed be a clear exit, your exit from power with the verdict of the Greek people. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And when you find yourself much less on the stand and without the welding web of power and of course the protection it offers you, there we can see how much you can bear. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Perhaps some of you will not have the opportunity to be in other budgets. I get it. So the New Democracy is voting against the 2018 budget and continues its own struggle, so that in 2018 it will be the year of the great political overthrow, to finally win the lost time, win the future, our future, but above all the future of our children, because all Greeks know that we deserve much better than what we have today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u256	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-eight students and three teachers from the 1st Gymnasium Tripolis (Second Chamber). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, thirty-nine students and three teachers from the Highness Port Thassos. The House welcomes you. I call the Minister of Finance, Mr. Tsakaloto.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u257	Mr President, I would like to speak locally.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u258	There's no local. The Agricultural Museum is absolutely essential and let them say. The Minister of Finance, Mr. Euclidis Tsakalotos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u259	Ladies and gentlemen, although Mr Mitsotakis has said that we will say that there is disaster, his speech has had a dose of catastrophe, and we have met this in the last six months at a great cost to the economy, because, as you know, confidence and optimism are part of economic prosperity. Mr. Stavros told us on July 14 that Mr. Tsipras' account is crumbling every day. Mrs Bakoyannis told us on 2 November that the reality is refuting the Prime Minister, because the Prime Minister said that we are returning to development. To explain this catastrophe, I will not say, as I sometimes do, an example from the New Testament for two reasons: firstly, because our Lord, as you know, did not have much sympathy, or at least had an ambivalent relationship with the rich and those who support the rich, and, secondly, because the cruelty of seasons and counterpopulation is more suited to the Old Testament. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Therefore, I remind you of the destructions and wounds of the Egyptians under Pharaoh, when the Israelites wanted to flee and Pharaoh did not allow them, and so the ten wounds became. The first wound was the waters of the Nile River to be turned into blood, the second was that frogs covered all the territory of Egypt, thirdly, the air of Egypt filled with scabs, fourthly, a flock of horseflies invaded every house of the Egyptians, fifthly, heavy epidemic hit all their herds, sixthly, people and animals filled with outbursts, seventhly, they fell very heavy hail and fire from heaven, eighth, the land of Egypt was darkened by the flocks of locusts, ninth, for three days dense darkness covered the entire Egyptian territory. This is where I'm going to give a parentheses. God struck again exclusively in Greece and exclusively in ERT in November 2013. Tenth, all the firstborn sons of Egyptian and Pharaoh were killed. Now let's go see the ten wounds we had and say the ten wounds only after the end of the second assessment. The first wound is that on July 25 we went out to the markets at a rate of 4.625% and offers exceeded 6.5 billion. On August 2, we went out at a very good interest rate for treasury bills. On November 29 we have the results of swap with over 86% coverage. I will not repeat the straightforward and sincere exchange of views we had with Mr Venizelos yesterday, because that was not the completion of the PSI, but the end, because now we have regular bonds that have no special features, and so they can be purchased by anyone who wants them. Let me add something. I would like to say a great thank you to Mr Stelios Papadopoulos, who has been the head of DPRK over the years. I have to say two things about this gentleman. The first is that he was always a flawless professional and the second is that he had a very deep sense of public service, which is two of our most important values. I would remind you that it was Mr Samaras' choice, and despite what you say, that we have the client state, we know when to keep people of great value. What was the result of swap? The yields of all bonds are falling, everyone's talking about rallies, and now we're just under 4, just over 4. This is the first wound. The second wound is the announcement by the houses of evaluation: on 23 June the MODY'S, on 21 July the STADARD AND POOR'S, then we go to the FITCH. All these are positive upgrades for upgrades in the future. There is the FITCH that says on 4 December that the swap will help the country get full market access. On 11 December the MODY'S, which has reduced over 800 million of red loans. What is the conclusion of these? That was the big difference between 2015 and now, that we do not need the preventive credit line, because we have just created these reserves and created more reserves. We're going out on the market more than once. And what did I tell you about the tests when you were all here in July 2017? What is considered a success in the test for exiting the market? If it's less the performance after four to five months than it was when we got out. And, as you can see, we passed this test. Third wound is what has been done in the banking sector. Nearly EUR 1 billion was raised, Bank deposits in July, according to the Bank of Greece data. On 29 September Piraeus Bank exits the markets with a covered bond. On 11 December there is a three-year covered bond from the National Bank and on 22 November we have a reduction in ELA by 1.1 billion, i.e. 25.8 billion. Banks currently have 20 billion kavanjas to deal with both stress tests and red loans. And they have new administrations, which are not our friends, who owe us nothing and do their job. The fourth wound is the indicators of the economy. On 31 August the turnover index in retail trade recorded an annual increase of 3.2%. On 4 September, according to a survey published by ERNST & YOUNG, the proportion of those who see improvement escalated to 53% from 6% last October. On 11 September, according to ELSTAT, in June private economic activity was increased by 25.1%, while at the end of the first half the economic volume rose by 24%. And on 1 December we had the results of MARKET, which is an economic health indicator in the manufacturing sector, which showed a continuous improvement in the conditions of the Greek economy. The growth rate of new jobs also recorded a high forty-five months. Fifth wound is investment. We have also recently invested in the tourism sector, for example in 'NAVARINO BAY', 'Resort' in Evia, 'MIRUM RESORT', as well as 'VODAFONE', 'MYTILINEIOU' and the agreement with 'TALKE EDISON'. I'm not saying that's the most important thing. The most important thing is what has been done with the new development law, where over seven hundred projects have been submitted, there are forty-seven applications with a budget of over 10 million each, but many small or medium-sized investment projects, around six hundred fifty, can be seen. The sixth wound is the development announcements. Previously, Mr Mitsotakis told us how disastrous it is that we had to go down the path. Let me remind you that in 2011 the forecast was for -2.6% and the result was -9%. Let me remind you that in 2012 the forecast was for -2% and the result was -7.3%. Let me remind you that in 2013 the forecast was for -4.2% and the result was -3.2%.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u260	So it was a better percentage!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u261	In your years, too! So, we have a third consecutive quarter of growth, three to three, which is the first time since 2008. And behind the development and behind the investments, the most important thing is that we have a change in the model. Because this growth and these investments are no longer just in large projects. He has spoken many times about how the NSRF is distributed to many small projects. Soon, Mr Stathakis brings the energy communities, which shows that we want many operators for this development. Last year we brought the social economy bill, all showing that we are building a model of development very different from what we did in previous years. She spoke of work before Mrs Ahtsoglu. I don't think Mr. Mitsotakis noticed her with gratitude because, as Mrs. Ahtsoglou said, she's wrong. Not only do we have a reduction in unemployment, not only do we have an increase in employment, but the 'ERGAN' today makes it 70% of jobs that are permanent and 30%. Mr. Mitsotakis just mixed up 70% with 30% and said it backwards. Based on the data from "ERGANI", six times we have the best return every month since 2001. On 7 June the best five months since 2001, on 7 July the best half since 2001, on 31 July the best seven months since 2001, on 13 September the best eight months since 2001 and I do not need to continue. Now we're going to the eighth officer-in-law wound. On September 25, Gerun Diaselblum refers to a clear exit from the program in the summer of 2018. September 25, essentially, is the ratification of Greece's exit from the excessive deficit procedure that entered in 2009. On October 9, Moscovisi says the main issue is the successful completion of the program and prepares the ground. I do not say that so that the JRC's comrades and comrades say that we are getting praise. I'm not saying it because we're getting praise. I say this because the community in which we are involved is seen to be outside the programme. For the importance of getting out of the program, I'll be back in a little while. The ninth wound is the social dividend, the 1,400,000, the one Mr. Mitsotakis told us. Twice he referred to this. The first time he dared to say that it was also customer-friendly, that we had customer-related relationships, for a dividend that is for everyone with social income. Was it a clientele that used to be, that was aids to certain businesses and to specific groups? Is that the clientele? That social dividend? Are you serious, and you say that? [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And I come to welfare expenditure that was 780,000,000 euros. In conditions of economic suffocation, we doubled them to 1,500,000,000 euros in 2017 and in 2018 it will be 1,830,000,000. I want a commitment from New Democracy, because in his speech at your conference, Mr Mitsotakis said that we need to have redistribution and development, and today he changed it again and said that we need to have growth and then redistribution. The question is simple: Do you commit this sum of 1830,000 to social welfare, or is it part of what should be cut to reduce taxes? Clear words. I asked you the question, I'm waiting for the answer. And I come to the tenth wound. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, you will have a little patience. I imagine you're following Hitchcock, where the greatest value is saspins, anxiety. The tenth wound will come to the end, allow me to speak, because also saspins need but I must combine it with the wishes of Christmas on all sides or almost all sides of the House. What I said about the nine wounds is a success story? Oh, no. First of all, as Charilaos Florakis said, I become agitated when I hear success story, because when I hear from New Democracy, I understand that they will continue to do what they did in the same way and in the future if they govern. So away from us, the success story and another reason. Because we in the future plan to do some things like we do now and some things differently when we get out of the memoirs. And if you want to know the best definition of what it means to get out of the memorials, I tell you to download Dimitris Janakopoulos' speech. Within five arrows, specify exactly the difference of being within a memorial and outside the memorial. And you will understand exactly what it means to points of freedom and how we understand that. And now we are coming to see whether this budget is fair. I told the committee that he was right within the framework. Of course, all the newspapers wrote that I said that the budget was unfair. Some of you were in committee and you can confirm what I said. This budget is within a specific framework that has the memorandum, which has the austerity as the dominant direction of European policy. Austerity, fortunately, begins and is questioned. At European level we have two Rights. One is neoliberal more in economics and the other - I don't know why I see Mr. Vorides! - it's more cultural, more nationalistic. Both of these Rightes help us to have problems. SYRIZA has an active role to play in the efforts - and I am very proud of this - that is done to change this very context. The discussions that are currently under way at European level either at Eurogroup or at Ecofin, either in the Council, concern whether Europe needs a European stabilisation mechanism either through investment or by reducing unemployment, if we need to have an increase in funds invested in public European goods, if speeding up procedures for completing banking integration must continue, especially if we need to have a guarantee at European level. On all these fronts, our Government, together with parts of European social democracy and many states in the European South, support changes that change the mix of politics. We support changes that will promote development solutions that will include the world of work. We support changes that will reverse the disastrous logic of austerity. What does the majority of the European People's Party say? What is the New Democracy's position on this? Are you really trying to tell us that within the European People's Party you are pressing for an increase in European investment in public goods or for a larger European budget that will help all the economies of Europe and, in particular, the south? Is that what you're telling us? I don't think so. The level of hypocrisy is impressive. You are accusing us of having tabled a budget of austerity, and you are actively supporting a framework that promotes austerity. And you're doing it in Greece too. You not only support change, but you do not even support the interests of the countries of the south. And it is not just the games that we are giving Eurogroup, Ecofin and the Council. Mr Tsipras, along with Mrs Ahtsioglou in Gothenburg, has made a great deal of intervention to ensure that there is a social pillar and that the social indicators are integrated into the Eurogroup programme which controls how economies go, that is to say, that there is also a control over equality, poverty and social exclusion. Mr Tsipras also put these in the Council. Mr Blonde, along with other southern countries - I think Ireland, which is an honorary member of the South in general in these cases - has fought a great deal to deal with the big pharmaceutical companies, so that we can have cheaper medicines. That means 'you're interfering to change the relationships'. You ask us: is this budget fair? Let me tell you about the middle class first. Listen to this, Mr Tragakis - I think you will be interested - in the middle class. I know you're interested in this. We have confessed that the middle class has been very difficult. But what did I do to see how hard we've had it and how hard it was for you? We took along with Theanos Fotio - she did the great deal of work to be honest - and we cut the distribution of income to four quarters and took the third, that is, it excludes only twenty-five richer Greeks. We take the richest household in the third, with a couple and two children. How much income did this house have in 2010? He had 34,000 euros. How long was it in 2015? He had 21,720 euros. You reduced it to EUR 12,280 in five years, i.e. reducing about EUR 2,500 per year. In 2016, the last year we have data is 22,000 euros. It increased since 2015. Who destroyed the middle class, Mr. Mitsotakis? Who destroyed her? Of the 34,000 euros at 21,000 euros. Who destroyed them? What about us? [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] We have now reached the finances of the New Democracy, which has become a truly straightforward and honest exchange of views - because Mr Juliarakis is far more polite than I am - with Mr Stakoura on the policy of the New Democracy. There's, you know, an old joke that left students used to say in the 1980s, when Reagan was in things and neoliberalism began, that Reagan was the greatest Kenyan politician of all time. Why? Because he had announced tax reductions and said that, because growth will come, we will have more revenue. Do you know how much Mr. Reagan raised America's debt? It increased by 1.8 trillion. And that's why Bush the elder - I don't think the younger - knew Reagan's economist, Mr. Stoken, that he has 'voodoo economics'. Bush said that about the economist. I don't understand your policy. Are you going to claim reductions in surpluses first and then growth comes? I understand that what you say about reductions in expenditure is not enough, as Mr Juliarakis said, for 500 million. So, we know that in taxation your policy is that we will reduce taxes without reducing expenditure, unless you along with Mr. Stoken believe in the 'Laffer Cambridge', which was supposed to increase revenues, since it would reduce taxes... [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Minister hits the warning bell.]] You'll give me some time, Mr. President. Unless you believe it, you don't have a strategy. Because what POTAMI and Mr Theodorakis have said really do not reach 200, 300, 400 million. You said we were triumphant. I heard the Minister for Health yesterday, who analysed what he has done for both uninsured and more staff in hospitals. I didn't hear triumph. I heard how difficult things are in times of austerity. I have listened to Mr Juliarakis who said about reducing unemployment, but he has raised a question of wages. I heard Mrs Ahtsoglou, who said they were reduced - this is what you heard, Mr Mitsotakis, because you were not here and did exactly the opposite - according to the 'ERGAN' - and 70% of the permanent jobs and 30% are non-permanent. I can testify to it in the Minutes or give it to you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u262	He talked about new jobs.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u263	It's for new jobs. Although Mrs Ahtsioglou, like all the ministers, has done left-handedly with the Labour Inspectorate - which we are now proposing that this Labour Inspectorate should exist at European level too, and all that has been done about undeclared work and unpaid work - has raised its concern about the quality of these jobs. So there's no triumph. But in my view - and now I shall end before the surprise, Mr President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u264	We know. There's still time for the tenth...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u265	In my view, in this budget - I look on the left and not just the right - I look at the left - the question is one. If we get out of the memorandum, will the working class and the middle layers be stronger or weaker? Will they be in a better or worse position to enlarge their requirements? If we continue to enlarge the social state, will they be stronger or less powerful? When collective agreements return in October 2018, will they be stronger or weaker? When we lighten the taxation of medium-scales with the EUR 3.2 billion, which we have left in the medium term, precisely why have we troubled medium-sized strata, workers and medium-sized strata will be stronger or weaker? That's the question. The question is not whether you make the best budget without taking into account the connections. The question is not whether the budget in general, abstractly, is the best possible budget. We know from Voltaire that Dr. Panglos, who said we live in the best of all possible worlds, doesn't exist. This budget is an attempt, in difficult circumstances, to correct the mistakes of the past, to bring stability, to get out of the memoranda, to lay the basis for a social state, to improve the indicators, without that meaning that things are good. It can be improved from a low base because we're in a very bad state, but it's getting better. That's what this budget is trying to do. So let me go to the tenth and last wound along with my wishes. I took the picture from the favorite TV channel of the opposition, "SKAI", but also from the source from the University of Macedonia, and I wanted to show how New Democracy has been going in the last seven months. You're seeing a downward trend. However, because it is Christmas, I have also made a gospel in SKAI the marker that we have first in recent months and last in the first few months, where the New Democracy's course seems to be rising, in order to enjoy and have a Merry Christmas. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Why did I do that, that's the upward course? I did because I want you to have a good Christmas, to think that you have an upward course, not to change anything in what you're doing, to continue this policy, because it helps us very much, and we are grateful... [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] ...because without an alternative strategy and discussion about what you want to do and with catastrophe, I think that the upward course will continue for too many years.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u266	Following the Chinese finale reserved by the Minister of Finance, I invite the Prime Minister and President of SYRIZA to take a decision to close the budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u267	Thank you very much, Mr President. The analysis and graphics presented to us by the Minister of Finance are very interesting. But I would like to begin by commenting on the introduction of Mr Mitsotakis' speech, which referred to an oath, supposedly, of Einstein, that it is insane to do the same things and to expect different results. Except that's never been said by Einstein, Mr. Mitsotakis. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] It's one of the well-known fake items circulating online. It would be advisable for your partners to let you know that. Sometimes they give it to Bernard Shaw, sometimes some of it to Einstein. It would be advisable for your partners to read Greek hoaxes before you speak, because they give you scrapes that Einstein has never said. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Okay, we know you're excellent, so whatever you say is authentic, you don't have to look for it. But it's good to look for a little bit. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] But I will say, since you started by that, that may be the first time after eight years - because it is the eighth Memorandum of Understanding - which does not seem to be doing the same in this House at all. Because this is the first time in eight years where strangely, suddenly just before the budget, the institutions have not come to tell us that new budgetary measures are needed for next year. It's the first time. It is also the first time that we know confidently that this is the last Memorandum of Understanding, which is passed in the Greek Parliament. So we do other things and we will have - they are certain - different results. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] The country after a great and painful adventure leaves behind a time, which is certain that no one will want to remember, a time of cruel austerity, of deep recession, of disinvestment, especially in the early years, of humiliation and unreliability, a time when the keys to decisions on the economy did not have by the hereditaries, had by our lenders. After eight years Greece has returned. It returns, regaining its economic self-responsibility, regaining its prestige on the international stage and, above all, having the opportunity to get rid of the sufferings of the past, which led us to this appalling adventure, having finally completed a difficult fiscal adjustment, having in the last two and a half years recovered credibility in the management of public funds and at the same time having implemented structural reforms, which no one dared to implement in this place, public administration, control mechanisms, justice, the political system, in the field of rights and freedoms, everywhere. And today, when these reforms gradually begin to show the first signs and bear fruit, Greece has a completely different picture to international public opinion from that which you left us three years ago. We received a country with licensed funds, the 'black sheep' of Europe, with unemployment close to 27%, with zero credibility vis-à-vis partners, but also on international markets, with loan interest rates for ten-year bonds touching 8%, with a government that had committed not too much, but crazy about the macroeconomic data surpluses of 4%, 4.2%, 4.5% for the next few years, while it was unable to cover even the current budgetary targets and had given up six months to negotiate on the infamous fifth rating at that time. We received a country that had entered the plaster with measures totalling EUR 65 billion, from 2010 to 2014, which had plunged the economy into an unprecedented period of time - for a country that is not at war - recession, which has contracted 25% of the Gross Domestic Product over a four-year period, while at the same time 40% of the income of employees and pensioners was lost. We received this country, which you put on the plaster of recession and repression - so that we do not forget these things too - as you governed by legislative acts both with MATs and tear gas in Syntagma Square. [[Laughers from the New Republic ward]] You're laughing! Why are you laughing, gentlemen, I should say now, Mr Mitsotakis! Why are you laughing, gentlemen?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u268	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u269	But you're forgetting about this! However, it is interesting that this debate which has been opened, once again by a paradox of a position - as it has contributed to the media that have been paradoxized - by the President of Parliament. But it's very interesting, what started and at your conference continued. To compare, then, what we received and who was then the one who threw you. Because the Greek people who threw you were the ones, because they were no longer able to withstand this political plundering and bankrupt the country, to see it embraced and bound by common sins, to continue for a long time the looting. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Because the looting continued in both the years of the first two memorials and the years of the crisis, which were all supposed to tighten the belt. Some people didn't tighten it up, though. And he instructed us, at the beginning, indeed a tough negotiation mandate that we held and implemented up to antenna in the first half of the year, despite the suffocation conditions that you artificially created, of course, or even by planning our violent fall, the so-called parentheses, which ended. We have reached a compromise with our partners, a forced compromise and a difficult one, but in far more realistic terms than you had loaded on the backs of the Greek people. We did not do everything we wanted, but we have brought an agreement that is much softer to adapt and adapt, as it has proved, in the first two years. You have implemented tax measures of 30 billion. For us, tax adjustment does not exceed a total of EUR 5 billion. And most importantly, we have reduced the budgetary targets by 20 billion euros for what you committed for the three years 2015-2018. The most important thing, however, is that what we, in the first half of the year, did not hide it under the carpet. We did not hide this agreement from the Greek people. We have not been content with the fresh mandate we have ever had, but we have proceeded with an unprecedented act of democratic emotiveness and sensitivity, to ask again for the vote of the Greek people, with the agreement and the measures known and everything on the table. And the Greek people have chosen us again to implement the agreement, the difficult agreement. We chose to get the country out of the crisis, not you. And it has chosen us again, with a very wide difference, if you remember, despite the opposite findings and then some popular measurements. Why, gentlemen of the New Democracy, did that happen? Have you thought about why this happened? Has the Greek people been fooled, as Mr. Mitsotakis told us, twice? You who, with a lot of carelessness, a week now roam around and defend the fake, the vicious success story of Mr Samaras, how do you explain that? Finally, since you had done so well and so perfect by the end of 2014, while we in the first six-seven months of 2015 dissolved the country, destroyed it, why did the Greek people trust us again to take the country out of the crisis and condemned you to the opposition? [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Is the people ignorant and they don't understand, to use a friendly expression of yours, Mr. Mitsotakis? So no, ladies and gentlemen. The Greek people are not stupid. The Greek people have memory and knowledge and intuition. He knows you very well. That was the cause. He knows what you've done all these years. And that will be the reason that will lead you to a new defeat in the September 2019 elections! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] But since you have entered this suffering of comparisons, come and compare now, if you like. Not to wait in 2019 when the elections are to be held, because then the comparison - let it be better - will be the day by night. So to compare now with the current evidence. In 2014 you tried to achieve something improper for fiscal data and macroeconomic figures, to obtain a line of credit with very strong supervision and very hard prerequisites, obviously what you could not then close in the fifth rating. This was your great success if you succeeded, your great success. For this reason, I would remind you that you sent Mr Hardouvelis, the Minister of Finance to Washington to meet Mrs Lagard. You obviously had a plan after the false success story to set up a false end of the memorials, since you would hide in the credit line the money needed to cover the country's loan needs - since on the markets you could not go out - and on its prerequisites all the measures of the fifth rating. Of course, Mr. Hardouvelis sent you back as he went to Washington, not because they didn't love you, not because they didn't want to facilitate you, but very simply because they couldn't help themselves, because they would even laugh at stones if you were talking about the end of memorials and credit lines with all the structural reforms incomplete and the main with borrowing interest rates close to 8%. With you, you know, we tend to forget the basics, namely that in the memoranda we have been driven because of the country's exclusion from international markets. So the way out of this treaty is to pay back to acceptable levels so that the country can refinance its needs without the restrictive framework of support programmes. So you three years ago were talking about success story with interest rates for ten years at 8%. We are talking with certainty today about the end of the adventure and we are not lying, as you were saying at the time, for the simple reason that today the interest rates for the ten-year period have already fallen, eight months before the end of the programme, last Friday, close to 3.7%. So what exactly do you compare? Compare 8% with 3.7%? Let me remind you that the objective, set by the Europeans, to get out of the memos, is the 10-year-old bond interest rate to move at similar levels to those of 2009, i.e. 4% -4.5%. Today, in 3.7 and 3.8, it corresponds to the loan levels for Greece in 2005-2006, when the concept of the crisis still existed neither in the back of the mind nor in the most ill imagination. What does that mean, practically? That Greece forms the ground to regain economic and political sovereignty by the end of the program. It forms the possibility of borrowing at a favourable interest rate without the compelling of the Memorandum. I have listened to you, Mr Mitsotakis, here - obviously without comparing anything else - to compare your own achievements. But what do you really compare? You had nothing to say about interest rates and you came here to compare apples with oranges. You say "all right, the loan rates have fallen, but they are lower than the countries that have come out for two - three years than the Memorandum". And you mentioned the example of Cyprus and the example of Portugal. But I would like to remind you, Mr Mitsotakis, that Portugal at the same time as us today, that is, nine months before the project was completed, had 5% interest rates, not 3.7%. And of course, I would remind you in relation to Cyprus, Mr Mitsotakis, why something you forget: Cyprus accepted the most severe blow to the "eba" in the memoranda, because there was a disastrous deposit haircut that affected up to the last depositor. You're forgetting about this! And, of course, I want to tell you the self-evident thing, which you do not want to understand, because it hurts you and you were responsible for it. When you refer to Cyprus, Portugal, Ireland, you forget that none of these countries had to go to a second memorandum. They completed the program properly and came out of the crisis. None of these countries entered the first Memorandum and did not catch up to one of the objectives of the budget and development. None of these countries entered the first Memorandum and lost 25% of its GDP in two years and none of them entered the first Memorandum and did not see its debt take off from 120% to 180% of GDP. These are your achievements, yours and Mr Samaras and Mr Venizelos you defend. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] The country will therefore comply with the commitments it has made and, in addition, will achieve stable and sustainable access at favourable interest rates on the markets and the definitive debt regulation and the measures that are expected to be quantified, to be clarified on the basis of the guidelines of the Eurogroup decision last June, which, of course, I would also remind you that nothing has to do with this decision with the hollow promises of November 2012. It is clear that the end of the memoranda and the state of the exception that the country experienced is not words of propaganda and of internal consumption, such as what you said in 2014, but is now a common place for markets, investors, international rating agencies. And of course it is not just the course of the bonds, which show that the country has taken exceptional steps, steps forwards and is ready for exit. There are also the results of the basic sizes of the economy. 2017 is the first year of substantial growth following a number of years of recession. Growth for three consecutive quarters, GDP growth by 0.4% the first, 1.6% the second and at least 1.3% the third. And I say that, because the original estimate is 1.3%. I would remind you that the initial estimate for the second half in the final assessment has doubled. So don't get ahead of us for the final size. In any case, it is the first years that we have practically developed in the country. Exports of goods and services in the first nine months increase by 7.6% with industrial exports dominate. Industrial activity increased by 5.3% in the first half of 2017. Foreign direct investment in 2016 increased in total 142% annually, while in the first nine months of 2017 there was a further 69% increase, respectively. Of course, I will not fail to say about tourism, which has recorded a new record this year with thirty million tourists and considerably increased revenues. For the first time since the crisis since 2009, private building activity and retail trade have recovered annually in volume in the first nine months of 2017 by 19% and 2% respectively. The main thing is unemployment, because you know, it is not right, even in the budget, especially in the budget, I would say in this Chamber that we should speak only of macroeconomic sizes. We also need to talk about social indicators. Unemployment is, therefore, the most critical social indicator, effectively deviating. I'll remind you that in 2014 you hit the ceiling. We reached 27%, while youth unemployment was 60%. From 2010 to the end of 2014 we lost over a million jobs. And you're here today, Mr. Mitsotakis, again indisputable. You don't read newspapers before you enter the room. Because for your bad luck today, the elements of "ERGANI", which say not only that we have three hundred thousand new jobs between 2014 and today, when you lost a million, but also that the three years in total, the majority of them, 63%, are stable. So what you said is true. In particular, in 2017, 70% of new jobs, about a hundred twenty thousand, were stable. In other words, we have changed the balance between stable and unstable jobs, and this is extremely important.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u270	You're talking backwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u271	One more thing, of course, that also the elements of the "ERGAN", which you do not read today...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u272	Don't we read them? "Monazier" you said "ERGANI", when I made it. Mercy! Aren't we reading "ERGAN"? It's not what you call it. Read the right thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u273	Quiet, please. Mr Brutsis, you have taken credit for the 'ERGAN' for years now. Don't have a right to be granted, please. We are talking about today's data. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please! The system was done by Mr. Brutsis, and now we report the evidence. Come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u274	So you don't read the evidence. You read Einstein's fake remains and Arka's sketches, but you don't read them. Well, let me tell you one more thing that's important. Fourteen thousand more businesses were recorded in 2017, which is also very important, ladies and gentlemen. So you, in the period for which you come and welcome and tell us what good you did, have recorded the largest unemployment record recorded in the country. We already record three hundred thousand new jobs. You've been logging all over the place. We record thousands of new businesses, fourteen thousand more in 2017. What exactly do you want to compare, Mr Mitsotakis? So I have the feeling that Mr Samara's study made you very bad from his hideout after two and a half years. He's fine where he's hiding. It's not good for you to show up. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Do you want, though, since this comparison began - and I tell you that it is now, imagine 2019 - to compare the budgetary targets that we have been achieving for three years, while you have not fallen into a budget? You tell us that we are overtaxing and we have dismantled the middle class and that the surpluses are the result of overtaxation. We have heard that hundreds of times. Did I tell you before, is overtaxing the five billion or thirty billion you brought? In what world is the five really heavier, bigger number than the thirty? But if you insist, then compare and remember who has brought the overtax. Who brought him, Mr. Mitsotakis? Did we bring him? Who brought her in solidarity? Did we bring her? Did we bring the trade end to it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u275	Who would abolish them?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u276	Yes, we do. We have not been able to lift immediately what you have loaded on the Greek people. Now, blame us for what you've done, for the suffering you've brought and charged. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The tax rates, however, within this difficult framework of the budget, have changed them by applying a more progressive tax, sharing as fairly as possible the burdens, given these conditions. We protected the weakest. We have in these circumstances implemented duty-free for farmers, protecting the income of poor and medium-sized farmers. You didn't do it in the years of growth.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u277	Please don't react.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u278	It's a lot of irritation, but it's all right. The climate is also alive. The main thing, ladies and gentlemen, is that we were the first to do so for the first time with the so-called big fish and tax evasion. It is only from the voluntary disclosure programme that we already have voluntary statements of EUR 6 billion and a total of EUR 600 million tax, when you, Mr Mitsotakis - to remember these too - have been hiding the Lagard list and the Borgarians list in the drawers. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] So you blame us for sharing the dividend from overtaxation. The dividend that we shared in justice and not targeted at charges that we would believe will be lowering them in order to reward us electorally, but targeted, horizontally, covering more than 30% of the population and all those who are on the poverty line, all those who are on the limit of social exclusion, horizontally for the first time, with an unstable mechanism. You think people forget easily, they're stupid, they're ignorant and they don't make comparisons. You think it does not compare, in other words, that you, with ten times as hard a measure and harder adjustment, have never achieved budgetary objectives and surpluses, not more, but those you had. Obviously, you did not have the opportunity to distribute with justice, because you only took. We shared 620 million last year. This year, we shared close to 1.5 billion. So you think people do not understand that what happened happened because we first managed to hit big corruption, stop big waste, hit big tax evasion and increase employment by three hundred thousand new jobs and, therefore, contributions to public funds. Today, EKKA, the one and only fund, which was one of the biggest social security reforms in the country, ends up being not a deficit, as you said it would be, but 2 billion euros above the target. But you didn't bother to see the real facts. You masturbate a line that reproduces and the media that support you and you think people eat spoon and don't remember and compare. There is, of course, also the part of the cost limitation, where we saved EUR 180 000 from the so-called cost overview in each ministry, and this on our own initiative and not at the request of the lenders. We cut the costs, not the irrational ones, but the ones that could be cut off. We didn't merge hospitals or schools, nor did we fire civil servants. Nevertheless, we saved 180,000 euros from the ministries. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] However, you seem not to have this data, you have not yet done "update" on this data, and you promise to reduce tax rates by means of an indefinite, undetermined reduction in costs. What are you not telling us, Mr. Mitsotakis? What expenditure? What costs are you going to cut off to reduce taxation? Are you insinuating, then, and do you not call it purely public servant redundancies? Are you implying a reduction in health and education resources?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u279	Don't react, please. Rhetorical questions are raised.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u280	Members of the New Democracy, do not exhaust and especially you of the people's wing which you referred to in 'the People's Party'. He has, of course, forgotten that, liberal, your Chief has done it. Do not become overwhelmed because he clearly said: "Contractors all outside, whether they meet fixed needs or do not meet fixed needs". [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Do not get rid of what we have heard in the House today, all in a bag, the five-year firefighters we brought, which covered constant and constant needs, accepted them by the troika. Mr. Mitsotakis is harder than the troika. He's a troikar! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And at some point you can explain to us what the limit of 'latiko' and 'laicism' is, because I think you have confused them. I will say more, however, Mr Mitsotakis and ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u281	We wait anxiously.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u282	I know you're waiting anxiously. I won't keep you in great agony, though. So Mr Mitsotakis and a reference to this cresent against populism and against the state. The big problem of this place was the state. "We'll tear down the state." He doesn't know, of course, or he doesn't remember that those who first introduced the concept of state protection at the place, because the Left wasn't in things after the war, your party was. But let's get through this. You have therefore referred to the Secretary-General. You have also been responsible for the Minister, and in addition to redundancies and evaluation procedure, in order to lead to redundancies that were your great achievement, you have not managed to do and leave any great reform section. But we, Mr Mitsotakis, are moving on to something that we have already legislated and no other government has dared to do since post-Civilisation. What? To stop this phenomenon that occurs only in Greece, which not when a government changes, but when a minister leaves a ministry, the entire structure of the ministry leaves. And you dare tell us that we have increased the Secretary-General we have established and brought the institution of the permanent institutional secretary-general so that there is institutional memory in the Ministries. Who dared to do that? And you blame us with false evidence that we doubled the number, because for only three months, we will have a common presence of the former Secretary-General with the new institutional secretary-General. What you're doing is poaching, Mr. Mitsotakis. Slander of an unscrupulous kind! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And you've reached the point in your crescendo, that's to mention to OSTH. It's best if they don't talk about rope in the hanger's house. You referred to the OSTH of scandals, the OSTH of mismanagement, OSTH, who took tens of millions of dollars from the public fund, even though it was a private business and had rotten buses sitting and not serving the citizens of Thessaloniki. You do not know, however, that this institution, to which you have referred, is the one to be responsible after the clearance of the OSH and at the moment has not one on the board of directors. You don't know that today's board of directors receives only EUR 7 000, and the previous one took EUR 30 000 a month and its president is unpaid there and is doing work to extend it, but also for the country. [[Applause from SYRIZA and ANEL wings]] You don't know, too, that only in the last quarter of 2017 we have saved for the public fund 7.5 million from OSH's liquidation and good administration, while it is expected - in the budget it is written - that we will save 30 million euros in 2018. Because you're also a colossal neoliberal, Mr. Mitsotakis. I guess you're a gadget liberal, 'cause you're a neoliberal. Because the market economy cannot function in conditions of corruption, interoperable and fragmentation of public wealth, such as the example of OSH, which you have built up. So I come now to another crucial issue. You tell us to give public service to contractors. Yes, sir! Deeply reformist incision! You implemented it in previous years and gave some tens of millions of euros from the public fund to some contractors. We, despite the problems and obstacles which have been posed in particular to hospitals, have, in our opinion, gone ahead with the restoration of this, distorted administration and we have saved money in the public funds. Not to mention the effects on workers, because - okay - I am aware of your little sensitivity to this part of our society. But do you know what the first word is? The most important thing is that you promise to reduce corporate tax rates. For when? Since I have not heard you today - and it makes sense for you to have adapted to the reality - to ask for elections immediately. You don't ask for them as a matter of urgency. So when is this reduction? Promise it for 2019 and 2020, that is, precisely, when we here in this Chamber institutionalised the reduction of corporate taxation from 29% to 26%. But you did not vote for it. You voted against it! So you come and promise what you voted against. Man's soul abyss! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] So these are the reasons, ladies and gentlemen. It is true, therefore, that these results, the positive prospects of the Greek economy give a great impetus to trying to leave the crisis behind and create - I would say - and the right ground for the next day, in order for Greece to have a modern, extroversion, productive economy, to create conditions of social justice and dignity for the Greek people. It is therefore clear that these purposes are served by the 2018 budget, which is a realistic budget, and this is also demonstrated by the country's budgetary progress. With the acquis of fiscal stability we have been able to achieve what we have achieved and can now be sure of the final end of the memoranda. But at this point I wanted to remember something else, because it was not only the dividend, which you accused, but the one-off payment of EUR 400 to the young unemployed, which you also baptized, in my view, once again insulting the government, but also those people whose policy made them look like redundant personnel in a company in liquidation, those who were first affected by the collapse of the economy with the unemployment rate of 60% for young people and the high-skilled and graduates from abroad being grouped out. However, it is true that any aid to young people and young people in unemployment for you is a tip for money, perhaps because you forget that you have turned the minimum wage for young people up to twenty-five years into tips and pocket money.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u283	Where are the 751 euros?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u284	You did well to remember, because we will remember all this in August 2018. And one of the first things that we will recall in August 2018 is that we need to make contributions to both energy protection and the harmonisation of wages where they should be and not where you took them. So at the core of your elitist thought, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, it is wage inequalities, unemployment, it is this Darbian, if you want, social environment, where it is worth the strongest. You understand, as you have clearly told us in some of your speech - in the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki, if I am not mistaken - social inequalities as natural legacy, while for us it is the result of an economic system that perpetuates and reproduces the unequal distribution of wealth, opportunities and access to education. And that - if you want - is our great, vivid ideological difference. It is clear that we understand as our duty to give equal opportunities and to strengthen with whatever potential we can afford in today's context those who most need it, while you see it as a provision of voting. That's why in the last few days you've been eaten that we're sharing because there's polls coming. Hold on! Don't be in a hurry. There is also the 2019 budget, because 2019 will be election year! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] However, despite the money paid out as a result of budgetary overcompensation, we have constant concern about the strengthening of the social budget, which is reflected in the one we are voting on here. It is planned to allocate additional resources over last year to family allowances, school meals and to extend the coverage of daycare facilities. Especially as regards family benefits, it is a great conquest of the negotiating group, because you told us that we would cut family benefits, while we come and increase them by 40%. The 2017 budget estimated EUR 650 million, while the 2018 budget provides for EUR 910 million. At the same time, in the context of the overall social protection plan, we continue the framework of expenditure and actions to provide the so-called social income of solidarity, which is EUR 760 million in some seven hundred thousands of beneficiaries, as well as the activation of the second and third pillars for the provision of services and labour integration. The most vulnerable strata of the crisis are directly benefiting now that they need it. Because the needs of a large part of the society that suffered do not expect, cannot be postponed until we get out of the memoranda. The production of new wealth must go hand in hand with the redistribution, because this is how social justice and solidarity are based, and a hard-tested society is being held up. However, in order to establish a sense of justice, there is, of course, also a need for areas and conflicts, such as tax evasion. Honest citizens often feel even greater the burden you fall on their backs when they know that some stay uncontrolled and when they hear about reasonable tax scandals and tax havens. But I did not hear you say anything about that in your speech. That doesn't seem to be the case. For tax evasion, for the permanent tax exemptions enjoyed by people in that country, that is why you are not saying a word. Do you pretend that you do not know that tax evasion in our country was systematic and that it was five to ten percentage points below the European average? I am talking about the period of growth that we were building Olympics, not for now, when we lost an entire GDP every decade because of tax evasion. Didn't you know that would lead cumulatively to the country's bankruptcy? But where I understand that you're even more glamorous is on the issue of tax havens. All of Europe. I do not know, of course, take part in the People's Party, but where I am involved. Perhaps the People's Party is also being discussed. But you don't say a word. We know that this is a legal evasion technology, particularly useful for the interests that you want to represent, classically. But your silence on this matter is revealing. I ask you, Mr. Mitsotakis, to take a seat. Take a seat. Even so, say something about the statements by European officials calling for coordinated action by the Member States on the matter. I know, you don't feel comfortable with this matter, something seems to bother you. But I do ask myself, Mr Mitsotakis, in a debate on control mechanisms, what is your position on the institution of you 'from where you were?' Should it or should it not exist and work effectively? Is this an element of a favoured state or isn't it? Because you have tried these days to raise a point - you have done so again - a conflict between the government and justice. In fact, the category of anti-constitutional practice, however, is not about us, others are about. It concerns you, because you are constantly trying to turn justice against the government, but I am sure that you will also fail and I want to be clear here. That government has no use to intervene in any of the other two powers, nor of course does it have any use of conflict with the judges.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u285	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u286	It honors Greek justice and respects Greek justice and not a card. However, we are not going to allow the production of powered networks and the possibility of avoiding controls. Nowhere! Nowhere! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And don't forget that more than half of the judges have already made a regular statement about their 'before'. We therefore have a mandate to act on the basis of the principles of equality and equality. Everyone will be equal to the law. This commitment will neither get tired of repeating it nor will we be the first to get tired of it, to impose it on everyone, no matter how high they are, no matter what. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is also an important part of the recovery of the economy and production, but it is also a matter of knowledge, of investment in knowledge. The 2018 budget continues to record, like the previous ones, our constant concern in the fields of education, work and health. Our education supports young people, promotes equal opportunities, monitors international trends and upgrades the human capital of the country. With this budget, for the second consecutive year - after many years - expenditure on education is increasing by 184 million compared with last year. I would remind you that, in spite of the suffocating circumstances, we have stopped the continuous reduction of educational expenditure, which began in 2011, with the reduction in five-year cumulatively to 34%, while the total public funding of research will be up to EUR 1 billion this year for the first time. The main contribution to these increases was the influx of 240 million additional resources from the Hellenic Research and Innovation Foundation to support new scientists and strengthen research at the IOIs and the research centres. Because that's where the future is, in the new generation, in the new scientists. The more concise I'll say about health. In 2018, implementation on a pan-Hellenic scale of the major reform - we call flagship - is progressing towards primary health care, which changes the map of public services in the country as a whole. With even greater intensity, we continue to fight - to get to work - to protect labour and strengthen workers' negotiating power. For the first time there is a working inspection body in the country. It was "compatible" what used to be. And the people you're talking to know about it, too. The fight against undeclared work already shows a decline from 19% to 13% in areas of high infraction and will continue to be a priority for us. The reintroduction of the principle of prolongation and more favourable regulation is taking place. It is therefore soon restored to normality and the exclusion of workers from the scope of collective bargaining has been lifted. At the same time, the third assessment agreed to establish a special privilege for labour requirements, which would be met, before any other creditor, in the process of enforcement or bankruptcy of an undertaking. I would stress this because it concerns thousands of workers who claim as a result. First, then, the workers, then the other creditors. Along with these, the country of course has the great challenge, the challenge of the challenges, what we call productive reconstruction. Here, if you like, is the fundamental issue for the next day. And on this point too, the debate cannot be technocratic, but a deep strategy and a policy, but not vague. It must be a specific, hierarchy, with targeted initiatives, because the country needs to relaunch production machinery, but not at the point where these machines stopped working, at the end of the last decade. We must not go back to the model that led us to the crisis. There is a need to leave behind the cheques of a bankrupt growth model that accumulated the riches in the hands of the few, which lacked potential from the Greek economy. So we need to move towards a modern, extroverted, productive model, taking advantage of the essence of comparative advantages and, of course, exploiting sectors such as tourism, the vertical agri-food industry, by exploiting innovation, new technologies, energy and large investment in infrastructure, trade and international transport, because of our privileged geographical location, but also areas in which the country has shown that it has potential, such as medicine, shipping and so many other areas emerging from obscurity and can have a perspective. We are now in favour of the position that we deserve in the globalised system and in the question of growth, if you like, we have thrown all our weight from the start. This positive momentum will be exploited. Our approach is of course complex. There are many factors that need to be taken into account. Development involves development tools, a strong banking system, removal of bureaucratic obstacles, incentives for research and innovation, pro-investment climate, lower energy costs, export promotion and balanced domestic demand. Our vehicle is the development law, which we voted against, and you voted against it - and I think it is the catalyst in the country's process of productive reconstruction. In a few months, more than eight hundred EUR 2 billion of investment projects have been submitted, which will create four thousand eight hundred new jobs. The new institutional framework incorporates a series of innovations with a specific development targeting, such as the priority strengthening of business projects of knowledge intensity, increased employment and high added value, the industrialisation of the country, the emphasis on granting tax exemptions, the simplification and digitisation of all evaluation and control procedures for investment projects. To say prosthetics for the flagship example, which are the "centres of a Stage", "one stop shop", for the creation of businesses quickly and through a fully electronic process.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u287	Quiet, please. There's fatigue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u288	Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the budget will show a slight tolerance, because I have also found the need to respond outside the text - I do so often - to what Mr Mitsotakis said. But, Mr President, I want some things to be said. Give me a little tolerance. We have therefore completed investment projects that were laken since 2009 and have remained unclaimed. Altogether, over 50 investment projects have already been paid and will be paid by the end of the year over 200 million euros. As in the case of development, with the same sense of urgency and efficiency, we are also moving towards the development of the NSRP, a tool that is no longer used for the needs of stickers and "days" but for the needs of production. So for the third consecutive year we are in the first place in the European Union to absorb funds, according to the official figures from the European Commission. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Of the last places you were, the effective ones, we - the ineffective ones - have gone first, reaching 25%! In relation to small and medium-sized enterprises, we have activated programmes of over 1.3 billion euros from the new ESDP. This success of the ESDP's resources comes to add to that of the full utilization of the funds of the previous period that brought our country to the top of Europe. These successes came despite the tragic situation we inherited, the overcompensation. Even worse, there were 6 billion euros over-committed by the election plans up to one day before the January 2015 elections - to remind me - immature projects that were integrated into the programme, just to serve some client networks. And if these sound somewhat unprecedented to some of my fellow Members present, I would remind you that special reference is made to the excellent use of European funds from Greece, which, as they said, brought the country over EUR 11 billion over the last two years, we had in the Eurogroup decision of 15 June, ladies and gentlemen. So here's why it's not a miracle, it's not magic. That is why we succeed where you have failed all the previous years! You have failed because you were oriented into a customer logic. In addition to these successes in the absorption of programmes, however, we also attach great importance to the quality of our interventions. In all entrepreneurship support programmes there is for the first time a working clause. In other words, there is more to be done for those enterprises that create new jobs and we are subsidising wage and insurance costs for new jobs for the first time. Furthermore, by legislation we have recently brought in, we have set as a prerequisite for subjecting to a ESRB support programme or national funds the strict compliance of labour legislation. We have also increased for the second consecutive year the national part of the Public Investment Programme, which now reaches one billion euros, and since 2019 this amount will reach 1.5 billion euros. On the contrary, I would like to remind you that you have constantly reduced the Public Investment Programme since 2010, depriving of valuable investment resources from the Greek economy and by stepping up the recession. I continue with a key area that needs support and is that of local government. In order to strengthen the municipalities, we have created a new financial programme with the Ministry of Interior in cooperation with the European Investment Bank. Through this programme, projects will be financed in the Ottas and the two degrees, but with an emphasis on the municipalities, with an initial budget of 500 million, which will reach 2 billion over five years. They are projects in the critical areas of water supply, sewerage, rural roads and flood protection. And for this loan programme, the municipalities will not be charged at all. In the crucial area of funding, we are not only confined to the resources of the NRP and the IRP. We have developed a very close cooperation with the European Investment Bank. In 2016 and 2017, programmes and projects amounting to EUR 5 billion, a record amount of the last decade, were agreed with the Bank. These agreements brought further EUR 2 billion of disbursements to the Greek economy in 2017. For the next three years, we have launched agreements with the Bank for projects of EUR 7 billion, which will trigger investments of more than EUR 20 billion, according to the estimates of the European Investment Bank itself. Finally, Greece has another important first. It is one of the first countries to make use of the Juncker project, which has so far reconciled EUR 3.7 billion for important infrastructure, but also for the financing of enterprises and especially small and medium-sized enterprises. Ladies and gentlemen, I will close now. I'm tired of you, huh?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u289	No, it's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u290	I'm tired of you, because you don't like everything you hear. But you know what?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u291	Prime Minister, excuse me. If some were tired in the Chamber, they were the ones who attended the debates for two or three days. Today I think we were all prepared to go a long way. We'll soon be done with everyone's tolerance. Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u292	You want to say, Mr President, that those who have not been observed are not tired.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u293	I mean things, but I usually get misunderstood, so I won't.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u294	I'll close, Mr. President. Mr Mitsotakis, I have listened very carefully to you coming to the level - from this step - of reading wastes from the former President of Parliament. Of course, you did well, your right. We're all judging. But, you know, we're not at the same party. You all know that we have decided to support our choices, not to run away. We decided to be judged by the Greek people, we decided to keep the party and the country. Everybody's judged. But since you have taken the trouble to read the stock of the former president, who makes sense to have, if you like, and bitterly and toward me, because we are competitors now, I will also be in the trouble to remember what not one of your opponents said today, but the Vice-President of your Party, Mr. Georgiadis, 9-6-2011 - not many years ago - that this Step has denounced you as a populist, deep, who never had to work in his life, so he does not know what it means to make his bread with trouble. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] Mr. Mitsotakis, is that how you're gonna confront? You who are constantly afflicting populism prove to be the greatest populist of all the populists! So enjoy him with your Vice-President, because many times, when I hear you, I no longer understand the difference. The one who told you the populist deep, the one to rejoice him, because you look like him, Mr. Mitsotakis! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I now close my speech, ladies and gentlemen, by addressing those who have been watching, to those who are sure that they are feeling much more comfortable in this budget than last year and to the majority of the Greek people who are listening to us. You know, the country's been through a lot. Our people have been through a lot. Today, however, more and more people around the world are talking about this people not as the lazy one who lives above his abilities, but as an example of hard work and determination. He bears what we wish to see never coming to any other people. But take it easy. He made sacrifices, but he never lost his faith that things could go differently. He didn't sink into collective guilt. He didn't give up. If you would like, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this is the country's great wealth and the great productive advantage, competitive, competitive country, the world of creation, the world of hardship, the advance. This is our collective power for the next day. Young people and young people, the world of spirit and culture, the world of production and innovation, the working forces. Everyone and all have the materials to build Greece worthy of today's and next generations. But don't forget something. We're not writing anything in the sand. Those who put the country in this adventure of monuments not only were judged, will be judged politically on their choices, because memory is stubborn and does not forgive, especially those who acted in Greek society as a mass, as an impeccable majority. But, at the same time, memory is also power. It is the force behind every major radical change in the history of societies. And when this force meets the stubbornness, the hardship, the thirst of a people, it can make miracles. We, ladies and gentlemen, have chosen to trust the people of this country, those who have met in the past few months at regional conferences between Thrace and Crete, our young people who have been in Greece for a long time, are struggling here, but also those who have left today in England, Germany, the Netherlands, America and wherever else in the world. These and these are the next day of Greece. We want them all here, we want them all back, we want them all together to build together the next day, Greece of justice and preparedness. No one can stop this day from dawn anymore and will soon dawn in this place.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u295	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the state budget for the financial year 2018 has come to an end. In addition to the eight main rapporteurs and the fifteen special rapporteurs, eight parliamentary representatives and eight eight eight eight Members, a total of two hundred nineteen Members. Also, the Deputy Prime Minister, sixteen Ministers, nine Deputy Ministers and eight Deputy Secretarys, i.e. thirty-four members of the government, spoke. The eight chairmen of the Parliamentary Groups also spoke. The five meetings were for fifty-four hours. The debate on the State Budget for the financial year 2018 is being adjourned and we will proceed to the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, Rule 123(6), the budget shall be voted on by roll-call vote, both at the same time and with separate lists and voters, for the revenue and expenditure of each Ministry. As is well known, all ministries only have costs, except the Ministry of Finance, which also has revenues with the budget. Therefore, a special vote will be taken on the revenues of the budget, and for all the Ministries a vote will be taken on their expenses. A separate vote will also be taken on the expenditure of the Presidency of the Republic. The state budget includes the budget of Parliament, which will not be taken into account again in this House, since the Parliament's budget, as approved by the House at its plenary session L/17-11-2017, is mandatory to be enforced and registered without any change in the general budget of the State under Rule 120(6) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. As mentioned above, the roll-call vote will take place, as imposed by the Rules of Procedure, at the same time. In other words, when Members are speaking on the list of Members, the voters appointed for the expenses of each Ministry, the expenses of the Presidency of the Republic and the revenue of the budget will take note of the vote given by each Member on the separate list of the Ministry for which they were designated. Those who accept the revenues of the budget, as well as the expenses of each of the Ministry and of the Presidency of the Republic, say 'NEI'. Those who do not accept them say 'OH.' Those who want to answer "NAI" for some ministries or "NOI" respectively clarify it in the language of their name. Members of Parliament, Mr Anastasia Gara, from SYRIZA and Mr. Apostolos Vesyropoulos from New Democracy, will be invited to join the list. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask colleagues in the first six rows to give their seats to the voters. Please come to the voters: A) For budgetary revenue, Mr Ioannis Sifakis and Mr Emmanuel Konsolas. (b) For expenditure: 1. The President of the Republic, Mrs Panayota Brandza and Mr Ioannis Antoniadis. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Ministry of Interior, Mr. Alexander Meikopoulou and Athanasios Kavada. 3. The Ministry of Economy and Development, Mr. Efstathos Giannakisdis and Mr. Konstantinos Vlasis. 4. Mr Marios Katsis and Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios. 5. The Ministry of National Defence, Mr.Asteros Kastoris and Stergios Giannakis. 6. The Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mrs Zoe Lebanese and Mrs Anna Karamanlis. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr Konstantinos Morfidis and Mrs. Georgia Martinou. 8. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr Themistollis Mumulides and Mr Constantine Achilleas Karamanlis. 9. The Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Mr. George Ursouzidis and Mrs. Maria Antonios. 10. The Ministry of Finance, Mr. George Pallis and Mr. Yoyakas. 11. The Ministry of Health, Mr. Andreas Rizzoulis and Andreas Katsaniotis. 12. The Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction, Mr Christos Begialas and Mr Anastasios Publics. 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The Ministry of Culture and Sports, Mr.Ioannis Sarakiotis and Dimitrios Kyriazidis. 14. Observed. The Ministry of Environment and Energy, Mrs Panagiota Dricel and Mr Christos Dimas. 15. The Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, Mrs Olympia Tygoridou and Mr George Kasapidis. 16. Observations of the Committee of the Regions The Ministry of Migration Policy, Ms Maria Triantafyllos and Mr Christos Kelles. 17. The Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy, Mrs Helen Aylonitou and Mr Christos Bukoros. 18. The Ministry of Rural Development and Food, Mrs Catherine Iglezi and Mr George Stylos. 19. The Ministry of Tourism, Mr. George Psychogios and Mrs. Fotini Arabatzis. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you not to leave because following the roll-call vote for the Ministries and the Presidency of the Republic, a vote will be followed by a vote on public investment budgets and attached budgets, as well as on the budgets of the decentralised administrations and regional departments of the Ministries referred to in Article 2 of the Ministry of Economy bill: ‘Privatisation of the State Budget for the financial year 2018’. Please, if some have not taken up their positions or have not been informed, they should come in immediately to start the vote. I would ask my fellow Members on the list to proceed with the explanation of the names of colleagues and Mrs Anastasia Gara will repeat the "NAI" or the "THEI" of all colleagues who vote. I would like to inform you that a fax (fax) has been sent to the Bureau in accordance with Rule 70A of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, which gives its vote on the bill. This vote will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u296	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letter, sent to the Bureau by Mr Nikolao Kotzias, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, will be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u297	Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to inform you that Mr B. Christoforos Papadopoulos, who knows that he is absent from the vote and that if he was present, he would vote 'NAI'. This letter, which expresses the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but is not taken into account in the counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u298	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned on the state budget for the financial year 2018. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter the protocols on p. 383.1 to 383.20]] The main voters are requested to take the count of votes and to sign the relevant protocols, which will receive service actors, so that we can then announce the result of the vote and be registered in the Minutes. [[COMMUNICATION]] In the meantime, ladies and gentlemen, in order to shorten the time of the meeting, if you have no objection, I would ask you to proceed with the vote with a view to the budget of public investment and attached budgets and the budgets of decentralised administrations and regional ministries. Does the House accept the budget for public investment and the annexed budgets for the financial year 2018? Please, those who accept to rise. [[Receivables]] Evidently, most of them were in favour of acceptance. The House has therefore admitted. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] [[After REMUNERATION]] Does the House accept the regular budget of the decentralised administrations and regional departments of the ministries for the financial year 2018? Please, those who accept to rise. Evidently, most of them were in favour of acceptance. The House has therefore admitted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u299	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote in this House. A total of two hundred ninety-seven (97) MPs voted. Budget revenues were accepted by a hundred and fifty - three MPs (153), while forty - four (144) MPs voted against them. The expenses of the Ministries: Home, Economy and Development, Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, National Defence, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Foreign Affairs, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economic, Health, Administrative Reconstruction, Culture and Sport, Environment and Energy, Infrastructure and Transport, Migration Policy, Maritime and Island Policy, Rural Development and Food and Tourism were accepted by a hundred and fifty-three (153) MPs, while a hundred forty-four (144) MPs voted against them. The costs of the Presidency of the Republic accepted a hundred and fifty - three MPs (153), while a hundred forty - four (144) MPs voted against them. The voting protocols are recorded in the Minutes and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u300	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Definition of the State Budget for the financial year 2018’ was accepted, in a single debate, under the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u301	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the state budget was closed with the vote which took place and the statement of the result. I would ask the House to empower the Bureau to confirm the minutes of the sittings of Monday 11 December 2017, Tuesday 12 December 2017, Wednesday 13 December 2017, Monday 18 December 2017 and Tuesday 19 December 2017, including the discussion and the vote of the State budget for the financial year 2018.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u302	The minutes of the sittings of Monday 11 December 2017, Tuesday 12 December 2017, Wednesday 13 December 2017, Monday 18 December 2017 and Tuesday 19 December 2017 were validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-19-S1-commons.u303	With the consent of the House at 22.38', the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday 20 December 2017 at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's legislative work: (a) only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction: "Creating the Memorandum of Cooperation on the National French Frequency Initiative (2015-2018), under the programme "The French language in international relations" and (b) only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information: "Authorisation of Space Activities - Registration in the National Register of Space Objects - Establishment of a Greek Space Agency and other provisions".
