ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS The first question will be discussed under No 1497/18-9-2017 in the second cycle of the New Democracy Parliamentary 2, Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou, to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the government's action to deal effectively with false news (fake news). Mrs Asmakopoulou has the floor for two minutes to present the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u2	Good morning, Mr President, and thank you. Minister, do I have your full attention?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u3	Yes, Mrs. Ahmakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u4	Minister, we're here to discuss the issue of false news, the make news. I know you've been keeping this in mind, I've seen the announcements you made and your recent visit to Montreal. The debate was essentially the fact that the EIA, referring to a conference in Estonia, transferred that only eight of the twenty-seven member countries participated, while in fact, on the basis of the official communication, it was nineteen. That was the trigger, if you want, for a topic, which we will all agree is an old topic, but it has taken new dimensions and has even taken on account of the use of social media. That is why GOOGLE, for example, has made improvements to its search engine to improve the reliability of content, which is why Facebook is working with journalistic houses in France to take similar initiatives, which is why there are European governments right now, such as the CDU in the German Parliament, an initiative for an action plan for false news. The same is happening in Britain, there is a parliamentary inquiry which has dealt with the matter. And, of course, Commissioner Gabriel, who visited us yesterday, told us that there is also an initiative at European Commission level to set up a committee of experts and consult on this issue. So the first part of the question is whether there is any action plan on the part of the Ministry and what is your intention to deal with this in general. I say this by bringing two new data into the first part of my speech. One is that I see today in 'AUGI', Minister, saying that for the first time there is a digital signature in the public. Ask Mrs. Gerovalis, your colleague. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, when he was a competent Minister, had done the digital signature four years ago. So let's not celebrate "SYEW". That's the first. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I ask for your tolerance for ten seconds. The second is something that I read today in an approved newspaper. The polling company "COMMON VIEW", for which the ERMON VIEW tells us that it does not exist in the register and that the Maximos Mansion projected through non paper - and ERT, the state channel - seems not only to exist, but also to have some connection with the Minister of State, Mr. Bernardakis. That's how they invoke the publications. So I wanted your reaction to that, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u5	The Minister has the floor, Mr. Pappas.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to stress that we are talking about an old phenomenon, which has a new name. His analysis is going long enough. A report will be made in the book of Chomsky and Herman "Consensus construction". The two authors in this book focused in 1988 on three features of the time. Firstly, the great concentration of instruments. Second, in the big and concentrated advertising campaigns. Thirdly, in the relationship between politicians and journalists, where journalists "protect" their high source, never writing something that this source could displease or expose. The authors, with these three features, argue that there is a construction of consensus, which can and may be abducted, which can also protect them from public control. Now we're not there. The means are multiple. Advertising campaigns are smaller and targeted and, of course, politicians, representatives of the people, can speak, without the mediation of journalists, to the public. One could say that this is something positive. In other words, public dialogue has become more open and democratic. There are, of course, issues in the light of the new technologies. Because the defendant can write something, a false claim, and in the throwing of an eye this false claim can be diffused online and claim its "reality". Therefore, an additional problem is that people have been observed to tend to read news that they agree with what they have in mind from the beginning. It is therefore a difficult process in which the individual from us comes in contact with a view which is contrary to what is already in his mind. And it is no accident, of course, that the British Dictionary for 2016 chose as a word of the year the term "translate" (post Truth). I think I'm not saying anything new here, but you'll know the route, Mrs. Asmakopoulou. Something can be written on a social media in the morning, reproduced by a website at noon and seen on the news at night. In other words, the issue of false news is not just a question of social media. It is also a question of traditional instruments. How's Greece? I am not going to mention, as you have done, we do not have to repeat them. The European Union has already launched some initiatives. Here, we claim that Greece should also have a very active role in the team of experts, that we should table our positions - and here I think we can do so after consulting the parties - for this story of take news and whether the European Union should go to legislation. We have already created the register of online media, which is one, as it seems, European leadership. The public uses its displacement, the leverage it may have, precisely to impose certain rules, a regulation. I mean, what do we say? We're saying whoever's not in the register can't have a state ad. Could the registry be exploited to fight the make news? I would say yes, provided this is done in terms of self-regulation. In other words, the Internet media community itself, as well as the property and workers in it, find a way to self-regulation. I think a fruitful dialogue can begin. From there on, we have already contacted the Panteion University for organising mass open online courses, for education in the media and, of course, the Secretary-General for Information, Mr Cretsos and Mrs Giannakakis are working on a bill aimed at combating the crime caused by hatred and dispersal of hate messages. In my denture, the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u7	Thank you. Please, Mrs Asimakopoulou, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u8	Mr. Pappa, you have finally revealed to me your source of inspiration for the project that is being launched at your Ministry. The source is this book? That's where you've been inspired? Because that's what you described me now. Just what you're trying to do with your absolutely state-of-the-art attempt to control the information area. Means concentration. How much more good aggregation through a law - which, of course, can be unconstitutional - gives the Minister the right to determine how many channels there will be and how much their licence will cost? You're the ones who finished it on the media gathering. Let's go to the subject of the commercial pie. I would remind you here, on the eve of the 15th century, that the amazing advertising system you brought here - of course, after a huge political possibilisation, you got it back - which was supposed to be advertised through this system. Check the advertising pie. The Register online is another way of controlling the distribution of advertising. You said it yourself. It is not a bad tool for transparency to have a registry of systems online, but your goal, as you said, is to share with it state advertising. Politics with journalists, the third part of your inspiration. Today we are discussing the dispersion of false news. Didn't you hear me before about what I asked you? Do you not see the headlines related to "COMMON VIEW", with this non-existent company, which is supposed to be from young scientists, and in reality is the email, which was then removed from the page, but is its electronic trace and presenting publications today - a partner of the Minister of State, Mr. Bernardakis? Don't you have a word about this today? Does the Maximos Mansion have anything to tell us, which used this poll on non paper to create impressions that have nothing to do with the reality that Greece is experiencing today, that everything is going better and that the world is happy and happy with this government? I am showing you here, Minister, the answer sent to us by the National Broadcasting Council, which was asked by the director of Mr Mitsotakis' office, and which answers us that a dossier was created on the subject of the company 'COMMON VIEW', which is not in the register of operators and polling operations. I'm going back to the third part of your effort in interconnecting politicians with journalists. This poll played on the state channel, whose political leadership is, Minister! And I told you that opening for today's debate is the behaviour of the Athenian News Agency, which we are also leading. I think, therefore, that you are due to an answer, because what is happening has deep institutional and anti-democratic issues. You've got to answer us. I would ask you to respond to us and put yourself in a good position, Minister, on the subject of the poll invoked by the Maximos Mansion in non paper. We all know that the communication strategy in this government is your pleasure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u9	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u10	Starting with, I would like to say a word about the RES. I think the RES has given the answers, and it is a little inconceivable for me to defend them on the substance. But what happened in Estonia, I think, should also be a lesson in your extradition, not how many people went, where the Athenian Agency was fully vindicated, but for the convenience with which you spread those days in a language dangerous as a whole for our democratic culture. This must be your main lesson. The ERT must be aware that it referred to a comment made by government officials. This is an obligation for all channels to do so. They don't do it, of course. Because there are channels which are still systematically ignoring - they could do so through their criticism - government positions. In other words, they do not respond to the views expressed by the Government in their journalistic duty. As far as the polls are concerned, I am very afraid you are responding to a spasm as a whole. Because you had another design. Some of you had promised that it would enter in the fall and come out of the polls that you would precede with twenty - five points of difference. This period is over. You need to understand, you should sit down and talk a little calm about what you are going to do for the other two years of our own governance, because we have been in a new phase. He closed the window of opportunity you had to make a climate that our own governance is completely denouncing. And you are in the presence of a strong optimist, but for the Greek economy of reality. And you'll have to adjust your tactics too. As far as the fast news is concerned, I said in my first place that a mechanism can really be created that controls it, but in terms of self-regulation. Not to be done by the Ministry, but by the community of people serving online information. I fear, however, that if such a structure is set up, it will have to spend all its time to highlight, assemble your own problems in social media. Where to start? From your Chief who posted an alleged death of a police officer injured in 2007? I am putting the relevant tweet on social media. [[At this point, the Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, Mr Nikolaos Pappas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] With regard to 'Agia ZONI II' - it is next to me and Mr Kourublis - all we did not hear is that he was driving the barge himself. He is - he says - a member of SYRIZA one who is in the owner company! You packed that back, too. Let's go below: " Trido and Macron called Tsipras for "EL DORADO". You packed that, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u11	Will you respond, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u12	I would sincerely suggest that every ten false news should be presented with a creative proposal. I am sure that in a very short time we will have dozens of creative proposals from your side that we can discuss and discuss. And of course, I want to insist here from now on. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] One minute, Mr President, if you will allow the honourable Member.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u13	Maybe in one minute you'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u14	I told you about the polls and I recommend that you do not react obsoletely. There's been a lot of polls.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u15	I asked you, too, to reply to 'COMMON VIEW' and to Mr Vernardakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u16	Do not react spasmically. I think your resignation should have accumulated experience to have a little virtue of patience. You didn't have her in the first two years. You'll have it, you don't want it, in the second part of our four-year period. And, to base the argument that the problem of false news is not a problem on social media, I will submit to the Minutes the notorious graph of the SKAI television station, where the atheists, because the country is entering into development and we do not want to say and admit that, have reversed the timeline. Time goes back to get the graph out with a curve down. That's it! These are the practices!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u17	To testify to Thessaloniki's program to know what false news is!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u18	And I think, of course, because I also had the opportunity to communicate this to an international audience, it is also in the United States that very much crowded things, but I am not sure they reach such extremes of distortion of reality. The main issue to which you must also keep in mind, not personally, but your prolongation, is that'scripta manent' and especially 'falsa scripta manent'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u19	Thank you. We shall now proceed to the next topical and urgent debate. Will the second question be debated with number 1501/19-9-2017 in the first cycle of the MP of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Athanasios Theocharopoulos to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on: "What action will you take to deal with the situation in Saronic? Is there a clear timeframe? When do you estimate that damage and environmental equilibrium will be restored? What care is taken to compensate the affected professionals and citizens? How will you ensure that such a disaster is avoided in the future?' Mr Theocharopoulos has the floor for two minutes to present the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u20	Minister, developments in the case of the shipwreck of "AYIA ZONI II" are shocking. You have underestimated the extent of the disaster since the first moment. Instead of initially intervening and dealing with the situation in even five, you said that everything was under control. I wonder if you really understand what control means. After your unjustified delay, the measures taken subsequently were incompatible with the size of the pollution and as a result its outbreaks extended to a large sea area of Attica. You have reached the point of making unacceptable statements, Minister, to recommend citizens in the first few days to go for swimming on the coast of Attica. Good thing you didn't tell them that because of the pollution it would be cheaper and the sunbeds, that's all we didn't hear in those days. At the meeting two days ago of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on pollution, consciously or unconsciously, you once again showed that you are not aware of the situation. Instead of actually informing about the actions of your Government on this matter, you bombed us for days and hours and information on meetings. You have all held meetings since Wednesday, when you returned from London, according to the information you have given to the Committee on the Environment, but nothing has happened. In addition to the extensive ecological disaster, the shipwreck has led to huge economic and social impacts on the Saronic. Beaches, fishing areas and tourist areas have been destroyed. Economic and commercial activity in these regions, as well as other activities such as sport, public and municipal infrastructure, have been affected irreparably, and of course public health is threatened. With all your honesty and account taken of the seriousness and responsibility needed to effectively deal with pollution, please answer specific questions: What are you planning to do from now on? Do you have a complete plan and schedule? If so, who's that? How will you ensure coordination with local government in this respect? In the first days the mayors said they were completely alone in this process. They had no information from the Ministry. And well, you were in London, you couldn't go back - and that we can't understand, you haven't told us the floor, but in any case - from there you could not coordinate any actions personally in such a critical situation for the country? On the basis of these actions you intend to take when do you consider that damage and environmental equilibrium will be restored? Finally, Minister, I would like to ask you another crucial question concerning compensation for the affected professionals and citizens. You stated that the compensation procedures for those affected by the IOPC FUNDS have already begun and proceeded in the event that the cover by the insurance company is not sufficient. Can you tell us about this? Because research on the causes and responsibilities and the shipwreck is under way, you even stated in your interview that you cannot make prophecies. So respond to businessmen and citizens, who are affected and struggling and who all but prophecies expect, when and how their compensation is planned. It will depend - and to what extent - on the results of the findings? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u21	The Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy will answer Mr Kourublis. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Theocharopoulos, the topical question is very interesting, and I must confess that it raises the concern of a parliamentary man for a very serious fact that has taken place. But, Mr. Theocharopoulos, this fact has happened for the last 14 days and you did not have the courtesy to call me or visit the Ministry and to present me with this anxiety, which would also be very useful to me. But, okay, it's a choice. I would therefore like to say that as far as the cause survey is concerned, it is a process that is under way by three different bodies, mainly from justice, but also by an independent authority and by the Ministry itself. When we have the results, then we will announce them with respect to society, because this relationship connects us with society: respect. And we realize what's happened and the size. And we have the courage to tell society that the only one not to blame is the society in these regions. From there on, there are responsibilities and they will be found. But saying that we did not do what we had to do is unfair. And you'd better blame me. Only they didn't say I was driving the ship! I have to go get a review of the relevant committees to see that I really couldn't have done it! I would therefore like to tell you that from the very beginning we have restored contact with the International Capital Compensation Organisation for Diseases. But because you are a man I sincerely appreciate and I know that you are careful many times about what you say, I must tell you that we also need a management carefully from all of us, because any funding with the causes of the accident is linked. That is why we must be a little careful when we move on to findings. However, I would like to assure you that we are at the heart of the problems that have arisen in people professionals and we will deal with them from whatever sources we can, in fact, draw resources. And I am saying here in an unequivocal way that we will be next to all these people. After all, everyone you're talking about knows very well about the reliable relationship and trust that connects us, them, the Ministry and me personally. They know that very well. From there on, Mr. Theocharopoulos, I want to tell you a simple thing. Since the first moment - from Monday, on the 11th of the month - we have asked to be daily - and Mr Famelos has been commanded - the Inspectors of the Ministry of the Environment there. We have asked the PPE to start researching. We have opened a dialogue with all environmental organisations, which are really fighting for this event and I believe that the first assessments will have them in a month. But, you know, Mr. Theocharopoulos, what's going on? Can you ask a question about what environmental research had been done at a similar event in the Gulf of Elefsina, which contaminated twenty-kilometre long coastlines and if there is such a report to the Ministry of Shipping? Because, at last, everyone cannot speak easily and unfoundedly and intactly. That's all I had to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u23	Thank you. Mr. Theocharopoulos, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u24	Mr Minister, once again I did not get any specific answers to the questions I asked you and the answers are still pending. Your government has put everything on the autopilot and, unfortunately, in this critical situation is not working. You personally, Mr Kurubli, have said directly that the responsibility for administering such cases and the decontamination plan lies with the Port Authority. Didn't you feel the obligation to be here and lead all proceedings from the beginning, in the first few days, in relation to the Port House? Apart from trying to renounce some responsibilities in this way, you think that all responsibilities exist in administrative services and you do not take any political responsibility. But, to be honest, Minister, the Prime Minister does exactly the same. In his recent speech to the Ministerial Council he did not take any political responsibility, he only said that he convened a meeting on Friday - a week ago, with five whole days' delay - to investigate the causes and give them responsibility. So, on the part of the government, it attempts to transfer responsibility only to administrative factors. But you are faced with questions, which are also on your side, Mr Minister, questions about the airship of the tanker, whether all the control mechanisms were in place at the time of the sinking, but above all with questions about the state's readiness and delay in reaction. In the end, the question is whether you made an official or informal request to gather oil if you were three or four days late. But you still do not give a concrete answer. The substance isn't even how late you've been, but if you've been late. And your humiliation is beyond unjustified, criminal, in this particular case. For example, the spokesman of the European Maritime Safety Agency said the Agency had sixteen ships available for the Member States of the European Union, which are twenty-four hours after the request. You replied yesterday to the committee: "We could not, because it was in Malta the closest, but from what we see the press spokesman disobeys you again and says that it is in Bulgaria and Cyprus as well. Will you, then, give answers to the specific questions that we ask you, with the specific developments that come to light in publicity? Mr. Curublis, you should have resigned. And since you did not, Mr. Tsipras should have asked for your resignation. You cannot accept responsibility and say that it is the responsibility of the services alone. The agency has a political leader and there are responsibilities for both the delay and the blockade and for everything that is happening these weeks. You said a moment ago that the only one not to blame is society. That is what I heard you say a moment ago. You did not consult with the Green Ecole spokesman in your government, who charged them all in society. He said it was all about society, it wasn't just a government. Therefore, you cannot reach an agreement within your Government either. You wondered about a similar event in Elefsina before. Look, I'm not going into any such conversation. People want answers to questions. Starting to say what pollution is greater and what pollution is longer and whose year is longer, is really wrong at the moment with the whole political system. Answer these questions, because you are responsible for what has happened. So say, how, as a government, you will guarantee the search and performance of responsibilities, which are gigantic, Ministers, especially after the fiasco of the new tanker, who had undertaken the extraction of oil, where they were found and seized, without certificates, so why the smuggling of fuel came back to the fore and this time with indications that a whole chain of companies, which often cooperated with each other, acted and acted uncontrollably. And indeed, as you say, the Greek people have no memory of goldfish. He recalled very well that it was the current government that committed itself in the programme statements that by hitting smugglers at least EUR 1 billion would be collected. Ministers of your Government - three I remember - have said we are losing more than EUR 2.5 billion a year. All three ministers have left the government, but the smuggling of fuel is here. The trial was to be held yesterday for the possibility of a smuggling on board the ship that took over the answer. Four witnesses, both of whom were from your Ministry, have not been in the trial. They have given a argument, but at last, we have to deal with the smuggling of fuel. A ready input-output system you had and it's not used. So stop being originalized at the expense of the country and society. At last, take your responsibilities. It's unfortunate that the shipwreck was made at night, as you said in an interview. It is unfortunate that in this position, as Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, you have finally been unable to react in this case. Unfortunately for the country, that is the truth, Mr Kurubli.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u25	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes and you will have the time and the topical question to explain it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u26	Because there is a question, I would ask Mr Theoharopoulos to remain in the Chamber if he is patient, because that is where all parties will be placed and I will answer in total. Well, Mr. Theocharopoulos, you're wronging yourself. I'm telling you, honestly. Accompanied by the climate some people are trying to think that the memory of society is a goldfish memory, some of the media and the Civic Opposition, to hit the government and especially the individual. It's understandable. But, Mr Theocharopoulos, you do not have the impression that you represent society and we are something else. You don't have more anxiety or more sensitivity. I recognize the same, but not more. To be informed. I do not want to speak personally, Mr Theocharopoulos, but public men, when they come to the House, come reading. They're coming in. And if you don't understand what I'm saying, you'll understand it in a while. That's what I have to tell you, to be informed. How easily you are blaming charges for this or for that, the representative said this, etc. Read well, then, not to say things that you will then regret and prove to be unconscious. Now, as far as my responsibilities are concerned, you don't even know that. You have never bothered to come to the Ministry once, who is such a merciful and distressing parliamentary man. You didn't come to the Ministry once to ask me what's going on here at the Ministry. You have the right. Have you ever done this, Mr. Theocharopoulos? You're a party leader. Have you ever come to the Ministry to ask me to explain what we're doing to this ministry, or to check or guide us, to tell us your ideas? Only you come and you say I quit. Others will judge that, Mr. Theocharopoulos, not you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u27	Society.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u28	Societies have judged it if you want to talk about it too. He has judged each other and has given him such powers. Don't want to go there. I don't think it's working. So you'll be waiting in the Chamber. All the answers will be given here, to all parties, calmly, calmly, responsiblely and then we'll see how good students you are.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u29	Mr President, it does not answer my question, but I am invited by the Minister to attend another question. In the course of proceedings, they should reply to all the questions, from which none of them replied.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u30	I'll have to listen to the parties then.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u31	We're on. The Secretary-General of the Government, Mr Kalogeros, informs us that the first question under No 1496/18-9-2017 will not be discussed in the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Miltiades Varvitsiotis, to the Minister for Migration Policy, on the subject of "House of thousands of refugees and illegal immigrants in our country", due to the impediment of the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u33	Mr. Varvichiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Muzalas systematically avoids coming to Parliament. The New Democracy Members have tabled a question since May on issues relating to Mr Muzala. From May until today, the Minister has not found a day to come to reply to the House, when the islands are filled with new immigrants, when all local societies are rebellious, when more immigrants in Samos are now among the people of Samos. Finally, will the Minister ever come to the House? I have tabled further questions for the next week, and I will wait for him here, but he has to be as Minister and respond to public opinion and Parliament on the issues that he is being put to him.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr Varvichiotis. The third, with No. 1489/13-9-2017, top-level question for the first cycle of MP in Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "An insufficient response to the environmental problem in the Municipality of Cordelios - Evosmos", will not be answered because of an impediment by the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr. Famelou, because he will attend a special event of the Ministry in Drama for the week of sustainable urban mobility. Ladies and gentlemen, MP Mr Nikolaos Dendias is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad from 26 September 2017 to 2 October 2017. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u36	The House therefore approved the requested permission. [[CHANGING PAGE]] Also, MP Mr. Theodoros Fortsakis seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad from 28 September 2017 to 2 October 2017 for participation in a scientific conference. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u37	The House therefore approved the requested permission. In addition, the Member, Mr Ioannis Pakisotakis, is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad from 26 September 2017 to 30 September 2017. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u38	The House therefore approved the requested permission. The Member, Mr Ioannis Kefaliannis, shall request permission from a short-day absence abroad from 27 September 2017 to 4 October 2017 in order to go to the United States. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u39	The House therefore approved the requested permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY Question No 36/25/14-9-2017 by the Members of the New Democracy Evangelos - Vasiliou Meimaraki, Ioannis Plakiatakis, Konstantinos Skreka, Anna - Michel Asmakopoulou, Miltiades Varvitsiotis, Georgios Vlachos, Mavroudi Voridis, Sophia Vultesis, Spyridos - Adonodos Georgiadis, Geraspis Giakoumatis, Nikolaos Dendias, Nikitas Kaklamanis, Anna Karamanlis, Konstantinos Katsafantou, Olga Kekioannis, Vasilios Kikili, Georgios Koutsakou, Georgia, Theodoras Bakoyannis, Athanasios Bourasios, Aikaterini Papastas - Sidiropoulou, Ioannis Tragaki, Konstantinos Hatzidakis to the Minister for Navy and Nicosilitic Policy, with the question of 'Hist'. The floor will be given by the following Members: Mr Plakiotakis, first honourable Member, for ten minutes in his prototype and five minutes in his dentext, Mrs Dora Bakoyannis for five minutes in his prototype and three in her dentex; Mr Tragakis himself; Mr Varvitsiotis himself; Mr Skrekas himself; Mr Katsafadas for three minutes in his prototype; and Mr Koumoutsakos for three minutes in his prototype; and Mr Koumoutsakos for three minutes in his prototype; and Mr Koumoutsakos for two minutes in his denology. The Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy will answer Mr Kourublis. As Parliamentary Representatives, on behalf of the parties, the following were declared: Mr.Georgiadis for the New Democracy, Mr. Dritsas for SYRIZA, Mr. Loverdos for the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR, Mr. Panagiotaros for the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Mrs. Manolakos for the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Kammenos for the ANELs, Mr. Kavalis for the Union of Centres and Mr. Amyras for the River. From the Parliamentary Representatives, the first, Mr Georgiadis, will speak for twelve minutes in his prototype, for six minutes in his second and three minutes in his teratology, while the other parliamentary representatives will speak for six minutes under the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Placiotakis has the floor for ten minutes to start with.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u41	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, twelve days ago we witnessed a unique shipwreck, which caused an unprecedented ecological disaster in the Saronic region, with enormous repercussions, of course, which have not yet been reflected. Tragic management - and, above all, operational and communication - on the part of the Government has highlighted the government's political Waterlos but also the Minister, who, in no case, has assumed his political responsibilities. It also highlighted the inefficiency of the state mechanism and, in particular, the mechanism of the Ministry of Shipping. The New Democracy, ladies and gentlemen, has been serious and responsible for this maritime accident and shipwreck since the very beginning. From the first moment, we have visited the Salamis region, with a slump of fellow Members, and two days later the President of the Party visited the affected areas from the major maritime accident. We have also tabled a request to the relevant Committee on the Environment to discuss this maritime accident and, of course, we are discussing the current question, which we have tabled, in order to highlight the inaccuracies and inconsistencies of the relevant Minister and the relevant bodies. And, of course, we have tabled a number of questions. As a cherry, of course, in the cake we have the reaction of the Prime Minister, who, after a holiday, carries responsibilities from the Ministry of Shipping to the classification societies - he forgot to tell us - Mr. Tsipras that he must "resign" Mr. Kourublis. It also did not deal with when this detergent would be completed and, above all, how to deal with the impact of this maritime accident. Because at the moment, ladies and gentlemen, there is an unprecedented disaster among entrepreneurs, individuals, fishermen and municipalities and nobody knows when and whether they will be compensated. Mr Kurublés, I have heard you stand firm in your speech in the Committee on the Environment, that you believe that you have been effective. Are you really aware of what you say or take what you said as a joke, to lighten the atmosphere? Instead of stating your resignation after this huge ecological disaster, caused by your organizational and political nonexistence, do you have the courage to speak? Mr. Curublis, where do you think you're addressing? To natives? Instead of apologizing for your behaviour, are you enriching parliamentary dialogue with heads of irresponsibility? You tell us that in a month or 40 days, things will be completely different. Where does that come from? Do you have official evidence to testify to us? How do you know? Unless after the accident, you have divining skills. Do you disguise mysteries of your imagination to disorientate public opinion and handle communication and only the matter? You told us that at 3 p.m. on Sundays you spoke to the Chief of the Port Corps and told him that all the plans and forces of the port must be mobilised and put in charge. First of all, Mr Kurubli, the plans cannot be mobilised, but only activated. Did this conversation never take place, but was it between sleep and awakening in Thessaloniki? Because if we really had such a conversation, and you gave orders like that, there's actually even more questions raised that need to be investigated instantly. Because if your orders had been executed, this great ecological disaster would not have occurred. I shall now pass, Mr Kurubli, on the substance. Since the naval accident occurs at 02.30' at dawn on 10 September - and this great naval accident takes place in the heart of Piraeus, in the heart of Navy Greece, under conditions of youth, a few miles away from your Ministry - what is the first thing you need to do to deal with this tragic event? You should have activated, Mr Kurubli, the National Plan to Combat Extreme Pollution Needs. What did you do? When was this national plan activated? For information to Members, the National Plan against Pollution effectively triggers all public and private state bodies, who, of course, are assisted by officials from other bodies from the central government and the local and regional authorities. When did they all get up to date? Was there an officer who took over this operation, Mr. Kurubli? Has the Central Advisory Committee been activated to facilitate the National Coordinator in order to avoid non-scientific interpretations? Here we heard amazing things, such as that underground currents were the cause of the oil spill, as if the oil spill is a metaphysical phenomenon and cannot be monitored by air means, we cannot predict, using meteorology, airborne, navigation. Mr. Curublis, what did you do with all this? So we have the tragic accident. The first thing you had to do and take care of the business chamber, the National Coordinator, is to hurt the floating dams. In your statement, the first floating dam enters at 9:30 in the morning, seven hours after the sinking, and the second - your statement to the competent committee - enters late in the afternoon at 18.00 in the afternoon. Why at 6 p.m. at 6 p.m., Mr. Kurubli? That's what happened on Sunday. On Monday, Mr. Kourublis goes out to ‘Real FM’ and states that the situation is being checked, that the ship was airworthy, that we have limited the consequences of the maritime accident. And the next night, the oil spill has arrived in Salamis! What's going on in Salamis? Are the floating dams used for all the beaches? Because if floating dams had been used on all the beaches of Salamis, with the change of weather we would not have had the transport of the oil. Another thing that I would also like to note, Minister, and I think you should finally give a concrete answer to this fact - is that you do not know how much the cargo it landed? In the committee, what did you tell us? That he had two thousand and fifty tons of fuel oil. Exhaust fuels to move the ship were there? In the press release on 10-9-2017 at 13.40 ́ - because you like the details - state that the ship was loaded with two thousand two thousand metric tons of foel oil and three hundred metric tons of marine gas oil. In the press release of 12-9-2017 at 13.31', indicate that the ship was loaded with three thousand two tons of metric tons. In the press release of 14-9-2017 at 22.30 you mention, "This ship, you know, didn't have diesel, had fuel oil". Mr Santorinios, in an interview he gave on 18-9-2017 at 8.21 p.m. on the show "Today" of the TV station "SKAI", said as a quantity of about two and a half thousand tonnes of oil. So, what quantities did the ship bring? Didn't he mention the quantities to the Port Authority by his expedition? Has customs formalities normally been completed and loading documents completed? Were the ship's papers and loading books salvaged? Was there a comparison between the data from the Port Authority and the customs office? How can anyone expect a successful outcome of this decontamination operation if they do not know the quantities charged by the ship? How will any illegal acts be identified? And we also have the amazing one, the ship which takes over oil, to be judged unworthy. So do you control or control your ministry, Mr. Kurubli? And do you think, after all this, that you should be a reliable minister? Why did you tell us in the Committee on the Environment that we did not ask for information from the Ministry. What briefing exactly? About when are we going to take a bath? About whether it was day or night the shipwreck? About whether the oil spilled her into the sea streams? Mr Kurublé, do you seriously believe that we can discuss under these formalities? I now come to EMSA's ship, because that also proved to be the case at the end of the day, according to the Agency's official press release, that you were lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u42	Mr. Placiotakis, will you take the time of dentology as well?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u43	No, Mr President, I shall conclude. What exactly does that bulletin say? "After midnight of September 12th to September 13th, we accepted a request from the European Coordination Centre, by the Greek authorities, for the dispatch of a detergent. Three hours later, the European Maritime Safety Agency, EMSA, offered this ship and around 09:30' on the same day, we received confirmation that the ship was already on site and had started depollution operations." Mr. Curublis, you're late! You said, of course, that this ship was on another mission. Do you know when the other mission has been completed, Mr Kurubli, why you are obviously referring to the operation of the BLUE STAR PAMMOS? On Friday, the operation of "BLUE STAR PATMOS" ended. And if it remained on this point until the day you requested it, were the reasons for the boat's stay in Io more important, instead of coming immediately, in order to contribute to the depollution plan as well? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, Mr. Kurubli, since the ship was loaded, why didn't it board a crew? What checks have been carried out over the last two years on this matter and what are the results?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u44	Mr. Placiotakis, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u45	Mr Kurublis, I think a lot of issues have been raised. So leave the communications krone and answer the substance, because you alone took the political responsibility. Obviously, a Minister does not have the operational responsibility to coordinate the actions of a maritime accident. But you yourself, when you told the Greek people on Monday morning that everything was going well, you automatically assumed operational responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u46	Mr. Plakatakis, please complete!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u47	I'll be done. And, of course, the work of a minister is not only to have the political responsibility of his services. The task of a Minister is to take the European initiatives and all those actions, in particular to compensate those affected. These should be your actions, Mr Kurubli, and we expect answers and not crowns.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u48	Thank you. Mrs Bakoyannis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, it is a heavy climate in your own parliamentary group today too. I would like to address your group and ask you whether you really agree that this huge disaster, which has been done, is characterised by what I said yesterday to Mr Kurublé, the five alphas: ignorance, inaction, inability, indifference, indifference and arrogance. I want to repeat something simple and ask you: A Minister is in Thessaloniki for his Prime Minister, to attend the speech of the Prime Minister, and at 02: 45 in the morning, he is told that a shipwreck was made and that there is an oil leak at sea. This Minister remains in Thessaloniki, attends the interview of the Prime Minister, photographed with the other ministers and SYRIZA officials and proceeds as if nothing were happening. He's on his plane on Sunday and he's on his way to London. What should I think? That the Minister didn't realize there was a problem. That's a good interpretation, and I'm ready to give it. He didn't understand anything. He did not understand that there was a risk of ecological destruction and then he followed his programme. That means - I guess - he called - as he says - the Captain of the Port, he told him all this, he got on the plane and left. And it comes back three days later! And what has happened these three days, ladies and gentlemen? It has become the biggest ecological disaster, which the Attica Lefkanos has experienced over the past few years, at least as many years as I remember and I have been political. I will not repeat these perfectly substantiated documents, which our rapporteur, Mr Plakkatakis, has said. You've heard all these days too many times. But there is one major political question: to take responsibility from whom will it be, ladies and gentlemen? Who's finally responsible? Who is responsible, not for the fact that this disaster took place, not for sinking the ship, but how do we go from there? Isn't there anyone? Is it ever possible to come to the point that we do not know how much oil the ship had or when the leak was leaked or when the leak stopped? Is it possible that we haven't informed EMSA of anyone? All this, of course, you've heard it a thousand times. I don't have to tell you. We don't mobilize anyone and yell - oh, of the miracle! - another smuggling ship to make the oil out of the ship that went down. I beg your pardon, ladies and gentlemen, these are not even in Uganda. And yet, we have the arrogance to sit in these benches and say that nothing is going on and that all this is a random event. I really want to hear from colleagues whom I appreciate in this House, if that is ever possible the reaction of a politically sensitive person who has the fundamental democratic sensitivity. It is not possible to say, 'Do I take responsibility and in any case I leave?' And I come to the matter of the Prime Minister. For me, the Prime Minister's reaction is very important. I've seen a lot of Prime Ministers hiding. This isn't the first time. Prime Minister who hides at this speed, like Mr. Tsipras, I've never seen one before. Prime Minister whose command from the Communications is “Watch, never with a photo problem!”, I have never seen one before. Fires? We show up after they've erased. Shipwreck? I have not contacted anyone, ladies and gentlemen! No one! I haven't come down to show my practical interest! You'll tell me: Would he coordinate? Yes, he will coordinate, because there is a major issue today, and I tell you about tomorrow: the International Determination Fund is an agency which judges too severely, because there are many people in shipping, as we know. It then considers very strict how and why the shipwrecks were made so that they can then proceed to the compensation. In order to be able to proceed with compensation on the best possible occasions - I take the best - what does it need? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Immediately, a coordinating body, consisting of the Minister for Trade Shipping, the Environment and so on, is needed to record the extent of the damage. In other words, what has this story cost our fishermen? What did this story cost to restaurants? What did this story cost all over the coastal front? What did this story cost to my people, the people selling fish in Varvachio, who don't sell to the "suppliers", they sell to the people with social needs and sell fodder. And yesterday and today and twelve days now, Barbecue is empty. So these people are being addressed. They need compensation. How do we get compensation, ladies and gentlemen? If we properly document the size and, of course, at the same time, proceed to absolute control over what happened. Please tell me, please: What image does this government give today, when it turns out that Mr Kabouris - this owner - when he took ELPE's oil, did not pay? Who paid for these oil? Is it possible 12 days later we don't know who paid the oil? Is it possible today that “KATHEMERIN” writes that in the trial of the smuggler who had been smuggled, who had been ordered by you to go on making the rendezvous, did not a lawyer of the Greek state go to protect the interests of the Greek people? Is this possible? Which country do we live in? Whose interests are we finally serving, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL, so that I too can understand? Because I don't understand it. I am telling you this because I know that in this Chamber there are people who have the same feelings as I do about this story. Uh, these people today should have the courage to speak, because the damage that has been done is not about SYRIZA and ANELs, or your Prime Minister who is doing news in Crete. This damage concerns the Greek people, it concerns the interests of the Greek people! To close, I want to tell you this: You will remember me. And the oil and the cost will all go to the backs of the entire Greek people with your own government and your own inability! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, too. Mr. Tragakis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, one of the most beautiful regions in the country, the Saronic Gulf, reminds us today of a tragedy scene. The ecological catastrophe - hold the word "lasting" - carried out at the dawn of Sunday 10 September - has already been 12, thirteen days - by the sinking of the "Saint Zone II" tanker is very great. The Prime Minister recognized it. He said to the Ministerial Council, 'big outbreak of pollution'. The signs of pollution have now reached Saronida. Scientists estimate that the main issue in the long term - I would like to ask you to take note of this - will be the quantities that will end up on the bottom and which can hardly be collected. Already the non-governmental organization "Archipelagos" has posted a video from the bottom of Salamis, which shows how much fuel it has decayed on the bottom, which certainly affects the whole ecological system. The Director of PPE, Mr. Chazianestis, said that following the accident at the Deepwater Horizon pump platform in 2010 in Mexico, where thousands of tonnes of oil were spilled, to restore the ecosystem, it takes a hundred years. When the Eurobulker X tanker sailed to the Evian Gulf in 2000 and there was a leak of five hundred tonnes of simple oil and not fuel oil, it took one and a half years to restore the environment alone and not the ecosystem. Also, Professor Kouretas, who is President of the Hellenic Society for Toxicology, said that 20% is on the seabed. What, for Attica and its inhabitants, is a tragedy, for the government, is, once again, a micropolitical field - what else? - and the communication management of the political costs and the political future of the relevant ministers, who are unable to take any responsibility. Proof? Their gruesome claims. No seriousness, as proved by the result. The first critical hours of inertia, the underestimation of the situation by the relevant authorities, were decisive for the spread of the oil and indicative of a forgotten public administration on the one hand, and on the other, an irresponsible and incapable political leadership. Questions are a lot. One question which has not been answered is: How many and in what capacity are they on board and what nationality are they? The Minister said on 14 September, 'If you go and see Salamis, there is no problem'. And, indeed, he said, "You can swim." And the photograph of the Belgian photographer Gyselinck arrived the other day - who did the round of the world, of course - which showed the lady who had bathed in the Old Faliro and was full of oil. And this photo has had too many responses. Why did the ship take two extensions of the aircraft in the summer and did not go to regular inspection? Why, as you now say, are you taking the responsibility of prolonging and monitoring and taking it to the classification societies? You replied that the port had given three extensions and the classification number nineteen. What's the matter with both of you? Can you answer us? What exactly happened in the critical hours, since it was known, to deal with the extent of the disaster? You gave us the evidence for a minute. That doesn't say anything. We politicians are judged on the result. And the result seems to be incompetent and should not be in this position. You underestimated the scale of the tragedy! On September 12, this morning, with Mr. Placiotakis and Mr. Athanasios, we went to Salamis and carried out an inspection there. There was an extensive pollution of about two and a half kilometres. Do you know where only a protective net was entered? A little orchestra in Salamis alone. Nowhere else. I'm figuring out these photographs for the record. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Tragakis, presents for the Minutes the above photographs, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Throughout the other region of Salamis there were various workers who tried to answer and help themselves. They did everything they could. And can I tell you something? I said then that if the weather changes, all this oil spill will pollute the whole Saronic. And I didn't have time to say it, and this afternoon it arrived in Fretty. And I was right. Here's the picture. I'm taking the other picture of the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Tragakis, presents for the minutes the above photograph, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] For EMSA, I won't say anything. Mr Placiotakis clearly mentioned what happened with EMSA, as did Mrs Bakoyannis. What I would just like to say is that it seems from EMSA that you, apart from having slipped, told us that the nearest ship is in Malta, while the nearest ship was - as they said - Limassol and Varna, Bulgaria. So you realize there's a problem here. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll take two minutes, Mr. President. Why are you late to inform the mayors? Why did the mayors run without coordination, by themselves desperately? In fact, Mayor Varis - Voula - Vouliagmenos with his own means brought the matter. And there are other vague questions you have not really answered. How much is the amount of fuel? There were two thousand five hundred seventy metric tons initially reported, i.e. two thousand two thousand metric tons of foel oil and three hundred metric tons of marine gas oil? According to the official ELPE bulletin, there were a thousand seven hundred forty - six metric tons and a hundred tons of seventy tons of diesel marine. Where did the six hundred and fifty tons go? What's the matter with both? Who, too, paid this amount to the ELPEs? What destination did they have? Which ships were they going to? The ELPEs have the names of all. Still, what quantity has it been pumped? No one's telling us. What's still on board? What kind of escaped and continually polluting the coastlines of Saronic? Here I would like - by closing - to bring you two images with words. On the one hand, the visit of Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras, to Crete, accompanied by Deputy Prime Minister Drasakis and fourteen Ministers and State Secretarys, who did not find a single moment free to visit the affected in Saronics. Of course, that's where he was found in a cord of protesters by fifty-five unions, isolated in his hotel. And on the other hand, the image of Mr. Mitsotakis who went to my district, Keratsini, spoke to the fishermen and listened to their problems. Mrs Bakoyannis has rightly raised the problems she is facing. The main issue is what is going to happen with compensation. It is a matter that needs to be dealt with more than anything. And I stress - and keep the word - is a very delicate matter. And I close, Minister, with the following words: It was checked by Mr Dritsa and you and the State Secretary that you and the Ministry have subsidiary intervention. Do you want to take responsibility for the Port House? We honor the leadership of the Port Corps. So I hear now that apart from assistant professors, there are also assistant ministers. So, you're assistant ministers! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, too. Mr Varvitsiotis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is not only the inability of the Minister and the State Secretary for the political leadership of the Ministry of Shipping to blackmail Saronic. This inability is the one that is causing problems today. Even today! You haven't come up with what you're doing with this shipwreck. There's a storm up and you don't know what it is that you're picking up, who's picking it up and where it's going. Can you answer us where the tons of fuel oil that's been gathered so far? Can you give a clear answer on how you manage them? Do you have any control over the operation? Do you check who is involved and how? Have you shown the least diligence? You cannot, Minister, make a regulation this summer that, in order to work in ELPE tugs, you must be at least twenty years old, sign it, after a few days to get your signature back and not ask the ELPEs how they accept such a boat, which is immersed in their facilities. What's diligence? What's the alert? What is the determination you have shown? Have you tried covering up the smugglers' circuit? Once I didn't hear you say that the involved were smugglers, doomed. Just excuses that we left them. Once you haven't said how this oil was found at sea. There's no corrosion on the ship. Where did so many thousand tons left? Where are these answers that will show that you are struggling to conflict with the interests and the oil companies and the depollution companies? Here a circle of huge economic interests has been born and you are trying to balance up on two boards. Minister, you have shown no diligence and you have done no action - your Government as a whole - to protect all those who are missing from this shipwreck. The "Athinian Riviera" has been discredited for which too much sweat has been poured out to obtain tourist identity. There has been a colossal effort to get Attica tourism all year round. You have not tried to protect this image at all. You have not tried, you have not made a single meeting, you have not had a single debate on how the compensation mechanism will work, how we will finally move on not to subject thousands of actions, which will in fact be borne by the judicial system, but that nobody will find their point. You have not drawn up a plan for how the people who have been affected can be compensated, for the people who have spent energy, costs, personnel, for the compensation of fishermen and professionals, and of course for the support of Attica's tourism product. Where's this attempt? Unfortunately, your inability, Minister, is not limited to not knowing what you say in the morning, at noon, at night or in the evening by frequent appearances. It is not limited to the fact that you and your State Secretary have given so many foreign-exchanged interviews that you have now made laughing, if you like, of the public. It is true that you are not even facing this disaster today in the way and diligence that must be done. Shipwrecks will always happen as long as there are ships and as long as people are working at sea, and we never said that a minister was responsible because he became a shipwreck. A Minister, a political leadership, a state mechanism, is judged on whether it is effective or not by the way in which he treats the shipwreck, from seriousness, responsibility, coordination, alertness and above all the truth he tells public opinion, not trying to shape situations with light statements of the type "go and swim at the weekend in Saronic". It was so poor to report that we even had a dead woman from this story, a woman whose body was dug up last night in Faliro, and who obviously didn't know she could swim! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately those in the name of the environment have prevented investments which, in the name of the cormorant, are demonstrating today that cormorant really is the victim of this great oil spill, are silent. Because you're saying that the Opposition does all of you, think about what you'd do, where Mr. Tsipras would be if he was Chief of Antipopulation. In a poop in Saronicos it would be with a label "Saronic SOS" and the popular mobilizations that you were used to organising " spontaneously". Finally, respect the serious criticism that makes it easier for you to cope effectively with the interests that today appear to be taking advantage of this national tragedy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, too. Please, Mr. Screka, come on. It's your turn to talk for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u55	The shipwreck of 'Saint Zone II', ladies and gentlemen, once again highlights the government's failure to manage a maritime accident and, of course, no one could expect more than this government. As is clear from the result, Minister, it was not possible to retain the oil leak around the shipwreck, but instead it leaked over several hundred kilometres, to an extent of South Attica and Salamis, thus polluting the coastline. The consequences, in addition to the damage caused to the environment, the marine and coastal ecosystem, the unsuccessful - unfortunately - management of the problem and the inability to limit the extent of the oil spill that has arisen, damage the image of Greek tourism and cause serious economic damage to the businesses in the region, as well as to fisheries. You are delaying, Minister, unfortunately, even today, and every day of the delay makes it more difficult to deal with, as pollution spreads, as oil is transformed into rocks and surfaces and is unfortunately mixed in sand. It is even more worrying that the government has failed to show its full failure in conditions which are not justified, that this maritime accident was literally next to the largest port in the country and one of the largest ports of the Mediterranean, in ideal weather conditions, i.e. there is no sea turmoil, where the majority of the country's antipollutants and equipment are concentrated, most of the country's large tugs, many private anti-pollution companies, while the ministry is based in this port - the coordinating body of the Maritime Environment Directorate of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy. Even today, ladies and gentlemen, many days after the incident, it is a feeling that the government and the Ministry responsible, the relevant ministers, neither have a full picture of the extent of pollution nor has an integrated plan for managing the environmental problem and restoring it. Example: You're not saying anything and you haven't been looking into the state of the bottom today. In addition, cleaning techniques, especially on the coast and on the sea, produce a large amount of oil polluted materials such as adsorption materials, potentially damaged dams, sands, gravels, wood, plastics, seaweeds and others, which are both difficult and expensive. Here, then, are some reasonable questions, Mr Minister, which you must answer today clearly before the Greek delegation. Has an objective assessment been made of the extent of the disaster? How is polluted materials managed from the cleansing of the coast? Is there a structured recovery plan? Is it going to be prepared? Who will be drawn up and what is the public authority that approves it? Has it been taken into account that in most of the affected areas natural transformation is slow due to low waveism? What steps have been taken to restore the marine environment, including the seabed and the rocky coastline? Has the overall cost, the recovery measures required and the costs of the long-term monitoring of the quality of the marine environment been assessed in order to ensure that the effects of the incident and marine pollution are fully removed? It is obvious, Minister, that your situation has escaped your control. I heard you yesterday on a morning show at the SCAI radio station, in reply to a question from the journalist Mr. Portasalte, say that you did not expect this event to end up there. The question is, Minister: did you admit that you did not expect it: why, Minister, did you not expect it? Who led you to the wrong assessments? Why did you make such a mistake estimate that it caused so much destruction in the country? Minister, things are simple. You will either be responsible or you will be responsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u56	Thank you. Mr. Katsafandos has the floor. You've got three minutes for your protology and two minutes for the denology, Mr. Katsafados. You want to join them together?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u57	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u58	You have five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u59	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the size of environmental disaster, the obligation to account for responsibility and the need to ensure that in future we will not become witnesses of similar events, commits us to speak with the language of truth. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen of the government, underestimating the shipwreck at first and through a series of mistakes and criminal omissions, you have turned an accident, which took place a few hundred metres off the coast, in the greatest environmental disaster in Saronic, in an extremely naval country. So the truth is, you were sleeping the law sleep by Tuesday, where the oil spill appeared on the pirate peninsula, believing that you had reduced the problem in the temple area. That's why the Minister stayed in London, so you didn't ask EMSA for help until Tuesday. So I ask: has the antipollutant barrier placed, been placed properly to cover all the outlets of the temple, bearing in mind the currents and weather conditions that prevailed? Was that a dam absorbent? How is it possible for air means, Minister, that they have been trying in the area for three whole days not to locate the oil spill? How is it possible for a ship with such a cargo to have only two crews at the time of the shipwreck? Were any checks carried out in the past or yesterday did you tell us with a press release that you were starting the checks? Can a ship be judged to be airworthy by the inspection, but can any insurance company not insure it because of risk, such as that one that was insured only for its cargo? Has disciplinary procedure been initiated for the officials of the Port Body's inspection of commercial ships, who issued a certificate of airworthiness, as well as an extension, without controlling the ship, while it was in Piraeus? How, Minister, did you not ask for EMSA's contribution from the first time? So instead of dealing with these, gentlemen of the government, you unfolded a little kitten of lies. Here I would like to present in the Minutes the recurring and unacceptable statements made by both the Minister and the Deputy Minister regarding EMSA. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Katsafandos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] To note the absolute irresponsibility you have shown, Minister, inviting people to visit the beaches and bathe in the contaminated waters when you apologized to them the next day. Should we talk about the Minister, Mr. Tsironis, who said it was the responsibility of society, the shipwreck and its management? Those were the lies, and with that amateurism, you faced the situation. Minister, what head of operational coordination and when was this man first presented in the business chamber? Who was he responsible for not implementing the national coordination plan and leading to local coordination plans? On Tuesday, because I want to be fair to you, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs decided to mobilise the environmental damage coordination office. I'll file the press release with the minutes on 12-9-2017. So I ask: where was the Ministry of the Environment for three days? The Minister for the Environment also bears responsibility and let the government try to hide these responsibilities. I am also presenting in the Minutes Presidential Decree 148/2009, which clearly stipulates that the responsibility and responsibility for dealing with environmental disasters lies with the Ministry of Environment through the coordinating office. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Katsafandos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the ecological disaster which has unfortunately remained for a long time, with consequences throughout the ecosystem, on the food chain, on public health, on the economy and on tourism. Direct priority should be given to depollution of the bottom using new technologies, which have been analysed by the scientific community. This must be done immediately, and I must stress that, unfortunately, I see that government handling is confined to surface pollution only. So I ask, Minister: do you know when the decontamination process will be completed? When will the professionals, who were affected and the municipalities who saw their efforts for clean shores be compensated for? With Law 3393/2005 our country has ratified the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage, where rights to claim damages are guaranteed. When are you going to activate this process, Minister? The International Oil Pollution Compensation Fund, which we have been members of forty years, can grant compensation to those affected. But when are you going to start recording? I know, ladies and gentlemen, that substantial answers to these questions are unfortunately not going to be received. I understand your level of emotionality, and that is why, unfortunately, I do not expect any resignations. You will, of course, continue, Minister, to claim that the design has worked perfectly well, accusing us at the same time of the past, apparently refusing to realize that you are the country's longest government in the years of the crisis. The bitter truth is that the next generations will unfortunately not inherit obligations for huge primary surpluses and for this economic suffocation you have brought, but also a seriously injured underwater environment in Attica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u60	Thank you. Mr Kumouchakos has the floor. Do you want to use dentistry, Mr. Kumucaco?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u61	Whatever time I'm going through, charge it to my dentistry. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Minister, the main issues and the main questions of this tragic affair have been raised by both the President of the party and the colleagues who have just spoken. Things are simple and the substance is clear. On 10-9-2017, literally next door, outside the windows of the Ministry of Trade Shipping, in ideal weather conditions, an untapped ship - as confirmed - tanker was submerged. Out of the Department of National Shipping! The first dam of leakage and pollution containment was hurt eight hours later. So, where would the ship have to bury so that the reaction would be immediate? In your office? This eight hours of irresponsibility, incompetence and incompetence will haunt you, Minister, whether you resign or become fully deceived in the Minister's chair. In almost all its coastal front, from Elefsina and Piraeus to the Old Faliro, Alimos, the Greek, Glyfada, Voula, Vouliagmeni, to Sounios, Attica, its inhabitants, professionals, local society, the local economy experience an ecological environmental nightmare, with extensions that are still unknown to tourism, the economy, the shores and the food chain. For this unprecedented nightmare, which will be for a long time - it seems - with us there are huge, catalytic, insuperable, crushing responsibilities. They are responsibilities that with unprecedented political perseverance, insolence and cynicism you refuse to take on, collectively and individually. You who, as you are claiming, are even blaming the whisper of society, prove unable to hear her help, her cry. Resign, Mr. Kurubli. It's your moral and political obligation. Save what you can from your shipwreck.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u62	Thank you. The Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Mr Kourublis, has the floor. You have twenty minutes, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing an extremely unpleasant fact for all of us in the Greek Parliament, an accident which has hit the environment and which should not be an opportunity to serve political purposes cheaply. There should be a sense of responsibility and a sense of self-criticism for those who ruled the country and claim after all that has happened to regovern the country, thinking that the Greek people have a memory of goldfish. "Many of goodness has the charge," to borrow the "holy" Lysia. The New Democracy recalled that there is also a Ministry of Shipping and Shipping in the country and a maritime policy. I'm so glad you finally came to the House, even under this treaty, plucking into an accident. As the Greek people must hear and hear what this is all about, with a lot of calm and very respect for those who are listening to us, I shall be present, Mr President. Mr President, it was so great that the concern of the New Democracy which had just happened - I was in Thessaloniki, as Mrs Bakoyannis said - was not found to call me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u64	You had it closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u65	Laugh, all right. That's where they laugh.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u66	That's where they laugh.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u67	Alas. You have high calibre intelligence. Almond from us. Okay. Quiet. You'll hear them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u68	But he listened to you all carefully. Let the Minister speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u69	So no one was found to visit the Ministry. What had Mr. Dritsas done on a similar occasion to see the difference in political culture? What did Mr. Dritsa do when a similar accident happened when we were in the opposition? He visited the Minister, asked for information, saw relevant bodies. New Democracy has been punished. Well, Mr. Mitsotakis, he went where the man went. So the New Democracy saw its first major interest. The second, Mr President, which he has done: he has immediately called for the convening of the Committee on the Environment, but after the government's initiative, after five days, because he had taken over the scale of the problem. Very important. So then he told us more things that I'm going to say after explaining about the accident. Mr President, at 2.30 o'clock at night the signal came in the business chamber that a ship is in danger of sinking. In fifteen minutes there were two vessels of the Port Corps. The first energy, as we were supposed to, was to try to rescue those who were inside. On 4.10, Mr. President, the ship was plunged. All this is from the business room from the headquarters, and everything can - if we are honoured by those colleagues who want it, because there were MPs from other parties who came - be investigated. Besides, it's in the D.A.'s hands. At 5.21' the signal left the Headquarters to activate the local plans in all the ports in the wider region. So as soon as local projects are activated, those that are included, on the basis of the existing project at the Ministry, are activated. At 5.30 p.m. the hour arrived there the first decontamination ship of the Port Body. Here, frankly, I want to say that when I tell you that you're coming in inexperienced, it's a reality. So, you don't know, Mrs. Bakoyannis, that this is commissioned by the owner to private companies? Don't you know that there is a decree, which defines this procedure, Decree 55/1998? And you do not know or do not want to know - to say something more - that to date the procedure provided for by this provision - in Article 11(6) - for a ministerial decision which must lay down the rules for the operation of these companies, to which you have granted licences, has not been adopted? For twenty-five years this famous ministerial decision has not been adopted! And this government had to come along to set up a committee which was studying this issue, because it is really a complex matter, and in October this ministerial decision will finally be adopted. You don't know that either. And you come here to give up on us. So you don't know that the law-based owner assigns to a company? So he was assigned to a company at 6.14' and 7.00' the attempt to take down divers begins. Because, Mr Kumucako, I do not know how much knowledge you have in shipping and in these cases - so it is good not to make the rosary - but to get the process started down to a diver must have stabilised the sinking process of the ship. In other words, at night only in cases where people are locked up may be attempted. At 7.00 hours, then, the divers and frogmen of the Ministry entered, spotted the ship and began the process of entering the dam, which was completed, after flying two planes of the Port Corps to detect the spot from the leak and the point. At 9.40 a.m. this dam was completed. At 10:00 a.m., the attempt to seal up. At 20.00 a.m., at night, I was informed by the spear that the effort to seal it reached 80%. Says Mrs Bakoyannis: 'What did you do when the chief informed you at night?' The chief informed me at 3:00 an hour at night, because this is our cooperation, no matter what happens, no matter what time it is, I have to be informed. Here's the man. You can call him. He'll testify to the interrogation. I said to him: 'Strengthen the plans and you will be in charge of all the effort'. So I was informed at 20:00 on Sunday. I didn't go to London on Sunday, Mrs. Bakoyannis. You don't have good information.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u70	No, I said Monday.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u71	You said Sunday.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u72	I also made a description of what you did.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u73	All right, we'll see it in the Minutes. We'll see. Don't be in a hurry. I knew you said Sunday. Good. On Monday, then, I had an update this morning that the immersion effort reached 95% and went to London.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u74	You took your time on Monday. That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u75	If I was here, I'd have sealed it earlier. Maybe. I'll talk about London, don't rush. When the time comes, I'll talk about London later. Sunday morning, in the communication that took place, the mayor of Salamis was informed. I hear you whining misery about the mayors not being notified, how the mayors would do that or do that. The potential of the mayors - not to say fairy tales to the Greek people - is unfortunately modest, because you know very well how you have worked all these years and for the mayors and they know how this government is trying to give the mayors what they need to do. So, the mayor of Salamis, Mr. Tragaki, is she obsessed with SYRIZA and says other than what you say? Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u76	What did we say?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u77	To understand, that is, honestly, because you know how much I respect you, but you can't say such things, for God's sake! He was briefed on Sunday morning. And that's what's being investigated. Don't think we're just talking about it. Everything's being investigated. And we are the only ones who have no reason, because I will come back to the interests, Mrs Bakoyannis. You know more than you said. But I'll come back. If that's the way you want, we'll open the conversation. So I was informed on Tuesday night. I've been in constant contact with the Ministry. There was a meeting at the Port Authority with the two Secretarys General and the mayors of the region, Piraeus, were informed, because the oil spill seemed to be going that way. The following day a meeting took place in the presence of the mayor of Piraeus. All mayors have confirmed it. When it was found that the oil ship is heading towards the Saronic side, all mayors were notified and on Thursday morning there was a meeting to deal with it. I didn't hear Dionysus screaming as you yell. I didn't hear him. You heard him in the House. And you heard them in the House how people talked. You don't even have this measure! But you just found the chance to hit Kurubli, you did it in any way, as long as you can hit the government. On Monday, Mr Katsafados, in consultation with Mr Famelos, the inspectors of the Ministry of the Environment and settled every day in the region, to monitor developments in the situation. Also, the CONTROL was notified to start counting. What has never happened - you have not done so, ladies and gentlemen, and you can look into it in your files, if you keep records from those who were involved with this ministry - it is now in a month or forty days that we will have the first measurement cycle we will have a picture. Can you tell me if it's happened in Elefsina's similar case or are they native? Because, Mr. Katsafados and Mr. Tragakis, where you are Pireaus, twenty kilometers has been touched by the oil spill at that time. So, what have you guys done and been so late? This ship was sealed within three days. The installation of the similar ship in Elefsina three years ago took place in seven days. Does it mean anything to you? The decontamination of the area there, which they were at any rate, lasted for three months. So we will see the measurements in a month, because the Greek people must know that we did not drop a pound of chemicals. We didn't throw a pound of chemicals into the sea! And that's the difference of the thing! The Greek society must know that by mechanical means we are trying to clean the sea, collect the oil that was spilled into the sea. And because I don't want to leave anything unanswered, so I'm telling you that the customs document-based ship had within two thousand and a half ninety tons of oil, two thousand tons of ninety tons of fuel oil, and the rest of it was diesel, two thousand to five hundred to seventy tons. From the ELPE it loaded a thousand eight hundred nineteen tons and the rest, from the information I have from customs, was declared oil, had it from another load. How much did he fall into the sea? At sea, we will be sure how much it fell, when it was completed - I believe in two - three days - the reply. And it makes a great difference when the reply was made to "A1", and how long it lasted here. And we'll see exactly how much oil has fallen, we'll see what'll be gathered, to have a real picture, not this black picture of the black propaganda that you're trying to grow, and you and some media. And I'll tell you one more thing: Come tomorrow and take a walk to all these beaches and make an evaluation of the effectiveness of the work we do. Because, ladies and gentlemen, while respecting precisely the world we are asking for and apologise for - because the only one not to blame is the world and the professionals in this region - we have embedded all the powers of the country. The port has fifteen stations, has a central warehouse in Elefsina. Any material from the Port was used at 90%. Three decontamination companies were put into battle, with the supervision of the port. The port, as you know, and you should know, is a special mechanism within the Ministry. It does not, however, have the responsibility, under the law, to have all the decontamination equipment, as is the case with the fire brigade, because, as I said, the law entrusts private companies with this responsibility. But it has an ancillary role. He did not like the term of my dear and respected President, Mr Tragakis, used by Mr. Dritsa and myself. It has an ancillary role in terms of detergents. However, it also has supervision and responsibility for the implementation and activation of all projects. We activated the national plan and led the Port of Piraeus, Mr. Lentaras. Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard these days great things: there have been pictures of dead fish. They cannot come Members and bring photographs from other cases - it is a shame! - and to be disproved by the district managers, the district managers and the mayors that this was not the case. We have seen great things on television: the images of the first day should be projected and re-introduced, because that was what was being done. Now let's go to the whole story of oil and smuggling. Who was the oil on this ship, ladies and gentlemen? Was it the owner of the ship's oil? Is it not a question that should be answered? Or what you're interested in is where did the product go after the shipwreck, who owns it, who took it and who didn't get it? Ladies and gentlemen, the law on extensions on these ships was issued by SYRIZA? Ladies and gentlemen, this central agency, which has the responsibility of inspections, has been built by SYRIZA and has so far left it unmistakable? And that was what SYRIZA did? Haven't others ruled before?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u78	Minister, please finish. You have your dentistry, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u79	Mr. President, I'm closing. Because you have a great deal of anxieties for the environment, the leader of Mr Mitsotakis, who was, I think, Minister or shadow Minister for the Environment, do you know how many shipwrecks there are in the wider region of Piraeus and Elefsina? Do you know that in Elefsina there is a submerged ship with four thousand tonnes of fuel oil? Do you know it or don't you know it? And you come here as virgins, as if you were from virginity, with agony and shaking lips, and you ask us what we did for the environment. Do you know that there are mapped dozens of shipwrecks in the port of Piraeus or you don't know it? Do you know that all of these are potential environmental bombs? What have you done all these years? You will see what this government and this ministry will do very soon on this matter. However, because, ladies and gentlemen, you were very anxious about these socks, because, ladies and gentlemen, you who are confronted with interests have not dared to bring a provision to Parliament and limit the age of these vessels?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u80	Minister, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u81	I hope that next week that we will table this provision in Parliament, you will come and vote on it. Let's see who dares to mess with interests and who's doing "hell," as they say. That's all I had to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor for twelve minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u83	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, there are indeed many shipwrecks in the area. As an archaeologist, I will tell you that even ancient three lanes can be found in the area of Salamis. But I do not understand what this has to do with your own responsibilities for what we have been living for. Please, I would like the attention of the Minister. Minister, Mr. Kurubli, I want your attention. I do not want to speak, Mr President, if the Minister does not listen to me. Hold my time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u84	I'm listening. I can hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u85	Mr President, I know that you are doing a lot of things together, so you are doing them a sea. Minister, the amount of speed with which you lie goes beyond our ability to monitor. I'm on my way to the lasson. Fortunately, in the House there are Minutes and dates, so that the Greek people who see us with what we're in trouble. He says the Minister immediately before: 'You requested the convening of the Committee on the Environment, of course, after the SYRIZA and the Government had done so.' That's what Mr. Kurublis said. Since there is a protocol in Parliament, the New Democracy's request, dated 13-9-2017, was signed by Mr. South Mitarakis for the convening of the Committee on the Environment, has a protocol number 29. The request by Mr Kourublis to convene the same committee has a protocol number 30. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] How can you come to the House for something so self-proof and say such a lie, without having the slightest bite? Now we're going to figure out what's happened and why we're blaming you. We don't blame you for the shipwreck. This is something that could happen to every minister. There's going to be procedures, I hope you run them, and we'll find out why this ship has chartered. We blame you for all the management you have done - and for the substance and communication, which is the essence here, because it informs the world - after the shipwreck. And I sincerely speak to you, Minister, your image of being stuck in the chair is the most pathetic image of politicians we have seen in recent years. And you're told by someone who was in your chair and when he had to quit. I'm telling you, it's nothing to resign. There are other worthy colleagues, I imagine, in the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group who can do your job. You're not that irreplaceable anymore to be stuck in the chair. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr President, please stop my time until it gets quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u86	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u87	Let's take things in turn. What have we learned from the debate so far? The reason why the whole coast front of Attica has been destroyed is because the New Democracy didn't call Mr. Kurubli. I accept the criticism. Obviously, if Mr. Mitsotakis were to take Mr. Kourublis and give him orders, Attica would not have been destroyed. That's true. Unfortunately, Mr Mitsotakis does not yet have the rule of the country and Mr Tsipras has it, which had to do this work, and we understood where we came from. But what else do we always hear from Mr. Kurubli? We've heard of it today. He told us it was the other people's fault. He has now arrived to tell us at the end: 'I want to see if you will vote for the law that we are now bringing'. So let's go, ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA, make a simple reasoning. Your government is now in time the longest Memorandum Government. You're running longer than Antonis Samaras had ruled, longer than George Papandreou ruled. Since you are running longer, you obviously cannot blame the previous ones for not doing anything, because you had more time to fix it. But if your criticism is generally to those who have been ruling from 1974 until now, if the criticism is wider in the old political system, then you understand, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, how ridiculous it is that is what Panagiotis Kourublis, Secretary-General and MP of PASOK for twenty years, who has been a central person of the old political system. It's ridiculous! It's not funny, it's worse. So, as far as the previous governments are concerned, you cannot invoke this argument because you are ruling more. As far as the old political system is concerned, you cannot say that, because you are the same member of this old political system. So stop saying that, 'cause you're becoming more ridiculous, if that's possible. But now we're going to the facts to figure out what's happened. The dawn of 10-9-2017 sinks this ship. It sinks under the ideal weather conditions, at the ideal location for the management of it by the state. He says Mr. Kourublis and the Minister of State for a number of days, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA: "We have handled it perfectly. It's all done perfectly. There was no mistake. We moved at lightning speed." Let us accept that this is true and let us all come to a reasonable conclusion, if that is true. If we have a shipwreck of a small ship, in the extremely ideal conditions, in the extremely ideal place, and everything has been managed perfectly by the Ministry and Saronics has been destroyed, can you imagine the danger we run every day if there is a bigger accident, does the ministry not manage it perfectly and we have a greater fuel leak from a larger ship? We'll get the fuel to the Acropolis! If we accept Mr Kurubli's claim that everything has been done perfectly, then we cannot sleep again at night. Because if everything is perfect and they have this image, you know what would have happened if it hadn't been perfect. Because I do not accept that our country is so unprotected and I think it is too irresponsible for the Minister to say that we have this conclusion, while everything has been done perfectly, I claim that it has not been done perfectly. The exact opposite. And that is why Mr Kurublis should resign immediately. It is a disgrace to you SYRIZA, with so many ecological sensations that you defend this man in this position and do not have the courage of one of you to rise up to ask for his resignation, after so many years of struggles on the left and on the ecology and I don't know where else. So let's go in order to get the facts. He's holding up the ship. We have heard many times in the history of ministers or Prime Ministers who, when an accident occurs, are returning abroad. We have seen images both abroad and in Greece of Ministers and Prime Ministers that interrupt official trips and return when something serious happens in their homeland and in their area of responsibility. Can you, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA indicate us a similar global example that the Minister responsible is leaving after the accident? The disagreement with Mrs Bakoyannis before was whether she left on Sunday or Monday. But, of course, leaving Monday is even worse. It would have been better if he left on Sunday. Because if he had left on Sunday, he would have had the excuse that he might not have been able to be properly informed. He left after he knew what had happened. So he has a full responsibility for what happened. Now watch the even worse. Where'd he go? Sell a spirit to Mitsotakis. He said: 'I will not tell you'. And then he said: "I went to see the shipowners to bring the flag to Greece." That's a great play! I would say that any New Democracy Minister who was going to see the shipowners in London City would hear from here on duty that he's going to do the shipowners' service. But I'm going through this. These are your old ones. Now you're saying more. So, if you were to say, Mr. Kurubli, to the shipowners in London, "You know, there was a serious accident in Saronicos and I'm coming next week," wouldn't their ships be carrying a Greek flag? Is that what the success of your trip was? Shame on you and say it! You're exposing them. Obviously, they would. You didn't cut your trip because you didn't want to lose contact with the shipowners. And you're playing left, and you went to SYRIZA to be left! So you went - today's 'PASKENIO' has the relevant picture - after the accident took place. What do we claim? To leave what has really happened? You have completely underestimated the fact. The reason that Saronics was destroyed is why the Ministry of Trade Shipping and personally Panagiotis Kourublis and his Deputy Minister with all leadership underneath completely underestimated this accident. That's why the oil spill got away. There's also proof. I'll read to you, ladies and gentlemen, so you can hear them. Mr. Panagiotis Kouroublis on Tuesday, September 12 - take note of the temple on Sunday morning - 10.24' he speaks to 'REAL FM': 'There are three thousand tons...'. Now you told us about four and a half thousand tons, that is, two and a half thousand fuel oil and two and a half thousand tons diesel and the rest. So we're talking about over five thousand tons. So, Tuesday, three days after the shipwreck, you had no idea how much it was inside. I'm getting past this. And Mr Panagiotis Kouroublis continues: 'But there is no danger of leaking'. You say that and tell the Greek people about three days after the accident. The Minister responsible comes out and informs the Greek people three days later that there is no danger of leaking. And keep an eye on it even better. The following day, on Wednesday at 13 a.m. at 15:30 again at the REAL FM on Mr. Stravelaki's show - he played in the main issue - he said: "There are only diffuse parts that are pervasive in the deep. It has not reached St. Kosmas, as they say." And after a while, for those who hear the station, the Mayor of Piraeus came out and Mr. Moralis started shouting and saying that he has arrived in Piraeus and headed towards the other municipalities of Saronic. I mean, let's figure it out. We have a minister who happens to the accident. He's getting up and leaving after the accident has happened, apparently underestimating the event completely. Because he has underestimated the fact, he has exercised inadequate control over this whole operation. Because he has exercised poor control over this operation, the barrier they put is too small and the oil spill begins to leave. He has no idea what happens to him. In multiple interviews, he says good-byes, shovels, pedestrians. It is enough for the fuel oil on the beaches of Attica and then it wakes up the Ministry and starts calling the mayors on the beaches, Mr. Papanikolaou, the mayor of Greek, the mayor of Alimos and the mayor of Palaios Faliros. Of course, if the Ministry had understood since Monday that the stain had left them, they could have gone to put a dam in front of the beaches of Attica and prevent pollution from reaching the shore. You keep talking about water. The water will be cleaned in some time. It's the coast that'll take many years to get cleaned. Because he has watered the fuel there and destroyed Attica for too many years, because you have not done your job well. We'd have had a chance if you were there. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to the major one, which, in my opinion, after what I am about to say, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA - and I will prove it to you - if you really do not get up to ask Mr Kurublés to resign, shame is all yours. There was all the fuss about EMSA, when it was requested, when it was not requested, if requested. Yes, sir! The Minister spoke yesterday in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. I imagine we all accept that a Minister wants to inform the Greek people responsibly and correctly and not to lie and, indeed, before the head of the opposition. So I read from the Minutes: 'Panagiotis Kourublis: The Honourable President of the NW said in Thessaloniki that we have been late to request the assistance of EMSA's ship. I am sorry, Mr President, but you have not been well informed by your colleagues on another matter. So I will tell you that there has been contact. The briefing we had was that ship was on a mission. He arrived on Tuesday afternoon in Piraeus, unloaded and from the moment he was now available, his assistance was requested, etc. He claimed, in other words, before you - and you have been fooled - that the reason why the ship's aid was not requested was because he arrived from the mission that was on Tuesday afternoon. Please note, under the contract with the EMSA of the private companies at the request of the Member State - assistance is required for the vessel to be at the disposal of the Member State - in 24 hours - whatever other mission may have. That is what the regulation says, it must reach twenty-four hours. So no matter what mission the ship had or not had if they asked it on Sunday the ship would attempt. But let's assume what Mr. Kurublis says is true. Ladies and gentlemen, for the Minutes of this House, the official position of the vessel. The hours you see are plus three hours because here's the world time. Plus three hours is the local time. The ship arrived in Perama on Monday, 11.9 at 14:30 at noon. The ship arrived on Monday 11 September for which Mr. Kourublis falsely informed the House and you the other day that he arrived on Tuesday night. The whole spot is here. And I have printed, Mr. Kurubli, for the other Minister now, Mr. Undersecretary, because he said "the ship was great he couldn't go there" etc. The whole stigma, the route that followed, to reach Perama on September 11th. He went through the shipwreck. Here's the satellite photographs. I'm filing them, too. [[At this point the Member, Mr Adonis - Spyridon Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So we have a detergent ship, the best we have, it passes through the shipwreck, no one tells EMSA that this ship needs it immediately, when you know, Mr. Dritsa, that in such cases it counts the minutes not the days. It goes on to say that Mr Kourublis 'we do not use chemicals'. Who used chemicals? The European directive prohibits using chemicals, it is not your decision. It is Europe's decision not to use chemicals. What are you telling us here as your great success? That you are applying the European regulation? We're talking here, Mr. Philly, for minutes, and the man's been hiding it for days. Do you know what the only reasonable explanation is? This vessel belongs to a private person and has a contract with EMSA. Indeed, if they called the private and told them the private "Friend, do me a favor. Ask two days later not to spoil the work I do and lose the money, then, yes, then it is justified to have sent the request two days later, if you want to serve the private, gentlemen of the Left. However, if you have as your first concern the citizen, the environment, the ecology and nature, as you said to be lying for so many years, and I claim lying because after these papers I have given you, Mr. Dritsa, any Minister of the New Democracy or PASOK had done this you would ask for his execution in the Constitution - you do not come here to tell us "Show political culture". I'm closing, Mr. President. While I hear you talk about civilization, I'm going crazy. I remember the times of "SAMINA", let's say, when Papoutsis came out, you dated SYRIZA and said "Ma, show political culture. Don't quit right now. Hang on a second and see." That's what you said? 'Your Pharisee hypocrites'! For the disaster, the Ministry of Trade Shipping is responsible personally for the Minister and the Deputy Minister, and you have a responsibility from now on, and you, who know everything and make the wrong eyes for the chair. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, too. Parliamentary spokesman for the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr Loverdos for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the facts of this sad story are concerned, everything has been heard both within and outside Ethiopia. However, while listening to the Minister's apology, one is very reasonable to ask what moral right one can speak in this way he has spoken and how many groups of political cynicism he has to say what he said and say what he said rounded up to the Minister's position without resigning. For three years in this Chamber, I claim that this government is the only government in the crisis that has to deal only with reality. Because the previous governments of the crisis were also faced with the whole political system in their faces, pre-conflicts, wood, reproach, implying, direct charges, creating a suffocating environment to operate. This is where the government is faced only with the reality, with the problems of the place, which almost universally wrecks. Unfortunately, Minister, you are not a central left minister, as you have lived in the three ministerial positions from which you have passed. In this regard, you are Minister for Maritime Affairs and your problem is the pollution of Saronic and Shipwreck, the ecological and economic disaster. Without the pressure of counterpopulation, only under the pressure of events have you and the Undersecretary of State. You've completely lost it. And the contradiction of your statements is proof of this claim. You've lost it, still lost it. You say things about the past, about the future, what you do, what you do. But what you have done for three years as a government are not saying. And on an issue, ladies and gentlemen, which, beyond its human and economic dimension, has the ecological issues and the ecological dimension. You have ministers and MPs from the field of ecology and you are a party dedicated for many years, at least in these matters. In fact, the Prime Minister today, in Crete, tells us that ecology is at the heart of your policies. But you're a pseudonym, compared to ecological. You're lying. You do not believe in these claims, and this has proved out of what you have done so far and in the case of the Saronic. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] Minister, I heard you personally or read on Monday, I think - and I read it with relief - saying that 95% of oil, fuel oil, is locked up, so there are no risks of leakage, and there is no risk of it starting or starting. This Minister who speaks in this way sends a message to everyone, to me that I am a citizen and a Member of the Second Athens Assembly, to the mayors, to the state mechanism, to the other members of the government, to everyone, that this is the issue under control, and that is what works reassuringly. But it wasn't true, it was a lie! And I'm not saying that you deliberately lied. But I support - and I have the facts that prove my arguments true - that you did not organise a personal mechanism that would help you in the event of a crisis. I am not talking about the mechanisms that the ministries and their institutions have organised, no. I'm talking about you personally. And with the experience I have, when you have a dangerous matter, you first take care of everything that happens to you to get from people who trust perfectly correct information. And you were misinformed, whose reproduction you made. Instead of saying that I have a responsibility in this, and political responsibility in politics means resignation, what are you doing? You want to organise the accountability to others. The person responsible is organizing the accountability to others! These things are not possible! You are sighing, you are not speaking, and the political unconsciousness, which is now your mark, is pushed daily by the black spot of Saronic. We have heard against the coronary and until there are no excuses, no real theories, but a phrase sincerely, that 'I am responsible and I am leaving', we have not heard and while we all know that you are responsible for unauthorised oligopoly. The inconsistency of the facts you refer to, I do not need it, other colleagues have said it, the media, the whole world says it. I as a Member of this region, ladies and gentlemen, have lived for seventeen years in the struggles of the Governments, the Parliament, the mayors, the inhabitants of the region to make this area a property of people. What we have been living for years - we lived because you stopped - from Faliro and then until the end of this line, you see people who enjoy his sea, who live best because of the fact that the sea has opened up to people, because Psytalia worked with all the problems she had - and I've lived thinly - all this success, which in some time we could say will also have our Riviera, if it was up to Piraeus, a little more. Parenthesis: You fought all the works there. I remember what I was listening to as a member of the region, which I welcomed, which is not an investment - the change of the Hippodrome area from a dirt site at the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, what happened, where you are going and you are enchanting it. I remember what the Mayor of Askounis heard then and what I was listening to, which I was a supporter. In a speech to me at the Refreshment in the area two months ago, I told these stories in the middle of people who were swimming for free, drinking their coffee, playing their children. Is that how these areas were? On this course, you also received and did the Saronic Black Sea, as many have said. I also want to remind you that you wanted to make courts there. You had passed a law here to go court for big trials, where? Against the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. You took it back with an amendment to ours, which you did not want to vote on, and you made Mr Kammenos suggest it and you voted on it then. You don't appreciate that. You're lying about being in favour of ecology. They're talkin' about noodles. It's a moral shipwreck, then. Shipwreck in the Saronic, destruction in the Saronic and moral shipwreck from which you do not care with a resignation to save the authority of the government and the dignity of your MPs, to whom you provide information and people reproduce it and are exposed. I heard your Member say that divers don't fall at night and then you said other things. You said one, you said the other. I have heard someone say that you have been informed too late and that is why the mechanism has been slow to react. I heard everything from people who wanted to support you, but I will, Minister, close with one experience. Here a few days ago, ladies and gentlemen, three ministers of government, with the opportunity of parliamentary scrutiny on a topical question of the Democratic Association, refused to support you. Mrs. Gennimata raised a matter for you, they refused to support you, twice I invited them, and they did not support you. Today your group has one presence here today, has not applauded your speech, two - only three have applauded. There is a problem with political tensions in one way or another when there are such heavy political responsibility issues: with your resignations. It's at your discretion, Minister. Free political dialogue from issues that concern you as a ministry, as the head of the ministry. The Saronic case will take years, and in these years it must be the best possible. The longer you get, day after day, in order to cover the mistakes of the previous one, to make a new one, the more delays what Greece needs to be done. Let's finish this story as much as we can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u90	Thank you very much. The Parliamentary spokesman for the People's League - Golden Dawn, Mr Panayotaros, has the floor for six minutes. Tolerant, you too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, for the Minutes, for the next generations to remember, I'm filing the picture of this naive - stupid one, I'd say - who heard you and went for a bath and went out full of holes. Listen to you, listen to Mr. Papachristopoulos, listen to Mr. Santorinios, listen to the Vice-President of the South Sector, Mr. Hatziperos, who everyone said "you can go bath fearlessly". [[At this point the Member of the Golden Dawn Mr Ilias Panagiotaros presents for the minutes the above photo, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] In fact, in another case of crisis, like the one a few weeks ago with the fires, where everyone was looking for the Prime Minister and nobody found him, like this winter with the floods that were drowning people and saying 'all good', like the one woman who left the Cameroon and fell into a stream, which was built, supposedly, and found in Frettyda or like the earthquakes in Kos, in Lesvos, where there was nothing and where the Greeks were out on the benches, at the same time as the illegal immigrants had light, water, telephone, blankets, everything you were, you were? So now, you're missing, and one is trying to hide behind each other. And imagine being a Dedicate or simply oppolitication, you would have lifted the pavement plates for this huge ecological disaster. You said that the Botanic has cormorants and you stopped any attempt to do anything, you who did the same as the Anti-Policy for Philadelphia and the Stadium of AEK, etc., now your components, your executives, your ministers'mouga'! "Muga" in fact! Not only do we hear what Mr Chironis said, but we hear what Mr Chironis said about this great oil spill, the ecological destruction of the coastal front of Attica, it is this disgraceful society that uses oil, and I do not know what else. Mr Kourublis, you said a moment ago - and you were obviously referring to Civic Opposition, because you are interested in it because you are in danger - that they should have a sense of responsibility. You spoke of self-criticism for those who have ruled in the past. Of course, you, too, have ruled many years as a PASOK executive from too many positions. You talked about a goldfish memory. So we will remind you and many other things. We will start with some of your statements in recent days, which we are sure are going to play now that the various humorous emissions on Greek television are constantly starting. You said in the first few days, in the first hours, "the underground" - you meant the underwater currents - "move the oil" and you didn't know where to move, to take your measures. First of all, the oil spill, the fuel oil, has less specific weight than the water and is on the surface, especially in the first few hours and could well have taken the necessary measures with a gas. You said it was a great misfortune the shipwreck happened at night. Then we must ask for earthquakes, famines and oppressions to take place hours that suit the government and the services, what is left of these services in the Greek state. You said - on the second day, I think - that the ship was sealed. You meant it was sealed. Today you told us that was three days ago. You told Greek citizens to bathe fearlessly and the ministers of the same government are constantly frustrating you, daily, as are the reality. In a radio interview taken by a journalist on Mr Traga's show, I think, when you were asked to resign, you had to say that 'yes, my resignation is in the hands of the Prime Minister'. You had nothing else to say. Of course, you did not have to bear in mind, and not least, any resignation, because these were other times, where there was a little bit of politics, and not just for everything that could happen. You said in a month everything would be fine. Meanwhile, it's been fifteen days. Let's see, in 15 days will everything be okay, Minister, or will it be worse? You said some beaches are cleaned up and we should go see them. Yeah, but every one of the waves brings back massages, spots, or anything else, and again man from the beginning. You said you were effective. We see it, all Greece sees it. The citizens of Athens and especially the south of Attica and Salamis are experiencing it. Today you said you had no interests. But if I'm not mistaken, Mr. Vaxevanis went to incriminate some of his newspapers, but he made a modeling and changed one, a well-known executive of yours, who was also the one who arranged, from what they say, and the company's deals about who will transfer where, what and how. Not to start saying names, you know very well. You said we found the opportunity to hit Kurubli, meaning all those who criticise you for these laughing things you said about the incredible flaws you showed as a ministry. Yes, you may not have shown yourself personally, who, of course, showed with your attitude and your words, but the result shows that it was all tragic. Imagine if it wasn't a rot, but it was a big tanker what would have happened. So, if you were successful and right now, as you say, what should have happened, if it were a failure, had the oil spill in the Acropolis arrived? We don't understand, Minister, what you mean. You said indirectly and directly that it does not have the responsibility of the Ministry, that it is the port - the representatives of the port are here - that they are the individuals, they are the ones. But you are the political leader of all those who are trying in an indirect or direct way to accuse others of being blamed, and it is not your fault. Because the Code of Public Maritime Law says that the Ministry, having been aware of the fact that a ship has been banned or is in danger, coordinates and directs the authorities under the relevant port authorities as a result of the actions taken to rescue the passengers and provides all possible assistance. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Allow me a moment longer. Here I would like to say something else about the role that the Attica Region has, which is constantly playing in any major problem in Attica, acts as a bag of boxing, in order to absorb vibrations. We have seen them come out and try to "sweet" a little bit, we have seen their statements, but the reality is relentlessly and unequivocally contradicting you. The point is, the state mechanism was sleeping upright. After four days, a meeting was held at the Ministry of Commercial Shipping. After three days, call EMSA. The Army took action days later, too, like the Navy, which could help not only to coordinate the uncoordinated. On 18 September the coordinating body was set up, i.e. several days later. You are responsible, Minister, for what has not happened, for the delays, for leaving, while the problem was growing and your excuses are funny. You are also responsible for the state services that show the mess, how much the Greek State and its services have been undone, because until now you have said some numbers, what was inside the ship, "AYIA ZONI", the quantity and type of fuel, you did not know them, and we are sure that the numbers you gave will soon falter you. You've been running for two and a half years now. It's a long time and you can't blame anyone else who used to rule that he created this mess, because you too did nothing to fix any of it. You don't have a detergent shield. You went out today to say that you have been doing something, that you have ordered the smuggling cases to be opened over the last ten years. At the same time, the first detergent that arrived was smuggling. We're talking about unbelievable things, about dismantling the state's literality! Even reduced pollution premium paid for this rot, in which you, your ministry, gave the two-month extensions at all times. Yes, you found this disgrace from the past, and what did you do two and a half years, Minister? Nothing at all! Your department, you say, didn't have a computer. And what happened? Two and a half years, you've been there. Make a computer. The second ship, like we said, was smuggling. You said, who is the hidden donor to "SHOE ZONI", who had ordered that he had paid the fuel? You're a government, why don't you tell us? Are we obliged to know Greek citizens? You said about EMSA, you said, you said. Really, why wasn't there a limitation of the oil spill at the shipwreck site, as weather conditions were perfect, perfect? Why have there been no preventive measures in the vicinity? Why has there been no coordination from the first moment, apart from the Port, and the private or the Region, the municipalities, the Army, which all of this took place days later? Why has there not been any processing of environmental data, winds, sea streams from the National Meteorological Service or the Ministry of the Environment services? Why, why, why? The endless are the "why?", which, of course, you cannot answer and for which will the hundreds of entrepreneurs, who are involved with the coastal front, by the simple fisherman, by the one who has rented from the state and pays expensive beaches, shops, sunbeds, anything else, taverns, who pay municipal taxes, pay anything, they are destroyed and see that they cannot make chefs. A man doesn't go to a radius of ten miles, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u92	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u93	I shall conclude, Mr President. The point is, you're an incredible shipwreck, worthy of the shipwreck of the previous ones, and you're doing nothing about it. And when you're trying to go and justify unjustified, you make things worse. Your resignation at that time - because now it has no value and no value - could at least show that you have some sensitivities, all showing that you have absolutely nothing! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr. Panayotar. The Parliamentary Representative of the JRC, Mr Diamanto Manolakou, is next. Here, Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u95	Within two weeks they go to shutdown from the shipwreck, and yet nothing younger than the Minister: neither answers to questions nor the causes nor the responsibilities they exist, since drama has not been answered even by the Argosaronian is "broken". Why so much covert for a shipwreck that has been made with a long veil, a boat, a no-boat, where no ship is in danger? And yet, he sinked and pierced. The fact is that it is continuing with the uncontrolled spots that have escaped and are milking undisturbed because the necessary measures have not been taken immediately and valuable time has been lost. Subsequently these measures were insufficient for the size of the disaster. You cover, gentlemen of the government, that your situation has escaped. And the shipowners want you to cover up. The Port may have arrived in time, but without means, because there is no state care for such situations as the people, the many. Even the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK, who ruled decades, were not interested in elementary state equipment in media and people. Let the Civic Opposition now shout only for EMSA. Fiscals for state care or protection, since they are considered unnecessary and tolerable. But neither do you, gentlemen of the government, have been interested. In addition, you retain what you have received, since this is the case for shipowners, from the legal and practical point of view, the capital. And, indeed, you are strengthening it with the 'risk' amendment you are preparing, since it will only be the 'nails' of private individuals to protect human life and the environment at sea, thereby ensuring more shipwrecks. It is shameful and courageous to present it as a solution. Your lies are a lot. The first barrier invaded it several hours later, the private person around the oil spill formed, while around the ship no dam entered, neither first, nor second, nor third, as experts say, so that using modern antipollutants to dissolve. So he kept digging oil and polluting uncontrolledly. Many years will be the effects on people's health, on workers, on the food chain. And yet, you are reassuring and deceiving. And you did it right after the shipwreck and you go on with it. Already when we called you, you told us that within two days it'd all be like it was before. And yet, we told you a day and a half later that the smell at the Faliro is breathtaking. She has left Salamis and microprofessionals and fishermen are in agony if they will survive, as in other areas. And the Minister told us that last Sunday he would make us tour by boat and see with our eyes that it would all be clean. Coverage business. Why? To hide that everything is for the shipowners. Inertial ships rotten, floating coffins, that have finished their life cycle and are old-fashioned, circulating and gaining. It's a lot more. Some are also smuggling oil. It turns out on the shipwreck. Yes, they are the laws of the New Democracy and PASOK, which guarantee them airworthiness certification. Well, let's ask, gentlemen, Officer Response because they've been extended. They took it because you secured it to them years ago by law. You are now covering it, blaming the government as incompetent. I can inform you that the government is capable of maintaining your own laws, because you are all suza, because it is in the interests of shipowners, from falling crews to organic positions, which correspond to the needs of ships, thereby undermining safety at sea, until oil-free provision. In the farms, however, you have cut it, like the heating oil, you have reduced it for poorness. He's in the prerequisites of the third evaluation. But for shipowners, duty-free oil lives and reigns. And some, of course, are also smuggling. So much for anyone to touch them. But the popular layers, by law, are taxed both by electronic auctions and by house and petty massage. That's right. That is why the JRC Parliamentary Group three times asked you, with a request for registration, to be informed of the provocative tax exemptions enjoyed by shipowners, and we have not received a reply. And you continue provocatively announcing the abolition of the Trade Vessel Inspection Branch of the Ministry of Trade Shipping, i.e. abolishing the prevention, of the sole State Audit Office. You hand her over to the private. Really, who will control them - or better, who will sell - certificates of airworthiness on ships that do not meet any conditions? And, indeed, you call it an upgrade of the level of navigation. Shame on you! This is your development: poverty, unemployment, pollution in life and the environment for the profit of capitalists. And, of course, the proposals of the maritime unions throw them in the trash. We tabled the Resolution of the General Assembly of PAMEN with proposals for the shipwreck, but also a call to gather with PAMM on 27 September against the crime in Saronics, which has guilty shipowners and their Government. Yes, they are the workers who are interested in the safety of life and the environment at sea, because they are the ones who risk and drown in the sea. Finally, Minister, do not shoot the Port House in a sense to hide your responsibilities in the prevention and crisis of the shipwreck. It's not honest. Looks like it's worthy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. Next is the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos. Here, Mr. Cammene, you have the floor for six minutes. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u97	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is a difficult day for all Members today in the House to discuss - and in our own government, if you want, in the last two and a half years - an unfortunate event, which marked an entire region, the Saronic Gulf. I won't talk about the second Piraeus, where I'm elected or Piraeus and Salamis that have problems. I think, however, that it is a spot for smugglers, a spot on Greece's image. This spot has to be removed from Greece, because we play on all networks every day very high in the news staircase. We also saw a picture of the Faliro, where I live, of a lady who came out of the sea and was black! And the story I read was that the woman was trying to clean herself up with a towel and couldn't get the fuel out of her body. It is dangerous and difficult to deal with, and as such we have to deal with it. And we need to see how we manage it, how we solve it, and what we do next. In my life, as many times as I have managed as a member or a responsible judge, the first thing that I have never done - is that it is a rule in administration, in Leadership and anyone who exercises a position of responsibility in crisis - is that he does not leave the head when the crisis peaks. Never! This is because there are other situations in all the structures under the head of administration, which must resolve and be the leader, that there must be a leader, who will monitor the development of crisis management until it is resolved and then ask and seek responsibility. When in such a crisis everyone shoots the leader, he, in my view, should not resign for the reasons I have said. Let me give you an example: Imagine that Mr Kourublis resigns today and another Minister comes tomorrow from the parliamentary groups of the co-governing parties. What will be resolved exactly? Who are we punishing? When will the new Minister be informed? What is it going to solve the crisis, which is running? In his character? With the experience he doesn't have? I'm going to go on a little quick, 'cause we don't have much time. Therefore, this issue - and it ends here - is being managed, because there are people, lives, animal kingdom, environmental problems, but also the reputation of Greece itself, the reputation of the Ministry of Tourism - along with the Ministry of Tourism - of the Ministry of Shipping, which is the backbone of the Greek economy inside and outside Greece. We'll say things by their name. We have smuggling. We have 'cosa nostra'. There are timeless political sponsorships and convoys on ships, which are ballasted and with strange licenses circulate in the Saronic and not only. We're smuggling tobacco. We have seen the cigarette boat - we have forgotten that - which has gone to Crete and no one is involved! He left with a million cigarettes. In other words, we would smoke - those who smoke - for years. And it's inappropriate and nobody's still involved. A solution must be found and an answer to smuggling and cosa nostra. And the Ministry will do it. About the "Saint Zone" is currently on the Internet the information that it is not the owner of the ship who paid the charger. This must be resolved. And that is an important fact. Another pays. Another one's carrying. He's insurance or not insured. It's insane with Mr. Spanopoulou, who took the leave as he took it and went to clean with smuggling oil again, Mr. Spanopoulou. We're seeing all this. We're not familiar, but we see every day what's going on in the news. So all this needs to be resolved, because it is dangerous. And the same chain of people continues to manage the crisis. And that's not right. For compensation, it must be made clear that if there is smuggling, we will not get any money. I say to you that if there is smuggling in "AYIA ZONI", we will not get any money from the nineties! I'm looking into everyone's eyes and I'm going down. We're not getting any money! Zero! And I don't know who's gonna pay the compensation, which is hundreds of millions, either for the animal kingdom, for shops, or for anywhere else, because they're going to be raised - and they've already been raised - a lot of actions. LASSEA is coming to get rid of it, and I see a new bomb. Ladies and gentlemen, a ship loaded with illegal fuel oil - and the fuel oil it pumped is without certificates, without papers - is intact in the ELPEs. And I hear she's forty years old. And if this gets on fire, it pierces, and it shuts down there in the ELPEs, what if it's gonna happen? It needs to be answered. It needs immediate action. When we say 'direct action', I do not know whether we should take '100' or 'two hundred or three hundred! We need to get something! Immediate action! It can't be loaded with molluscs of a thousand tons, plus smuggling, sitting and not touching it. It's forbidden. It's a second time bomb next to our door, inside the sea, on the Saronic. It has to be solved yesterday. Not tomorrow in an hour. The situation must not be polite and responsibility must be attached everywhere, especially throughout the hierarchy. This is a timeless political problem. It is not a problem that this government and this ministry are facing. As in trying to solve everything, something bad can happen and they all come to hit the one who tries to manage a crisis. We must solve this over time and not get involved again, because the patch brought us black and molluscs, especially smuggling and cosa nostra. I'm not afraid to say it. We will also thank the Port Authority and the leader and all the men and women of the Port House who have been trying and running to catch up, chasing smugglers, incompletely through ships, without GPS, by boats, by boats that were left on carnivores and we have made them attempt after ten, twelve years without complying with the technical requirements. We need to make it. They want sponsorships? Let's go find them. We must also help the men and women of the Port House. In conclusion, I would like to say that in the crisis no one resigns. The responsibilities will be attributed where necessary, when the crisis is over and the problem is resolved. Secondly, we should go into the 'LASSEA' yesterday and take the fuel oil, because it will be in our hands. Thirdly, to resolve the issue of 'cosa nostra' and the smugglers, who discredit the country, destroy the economy, the image of the country. This government should not show any tolerance to any smugglers wherever they come from. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, too. The Parliamentary Representative of the Union for Central and Eastern Europe, Mr Kavalellas, is next. Mr. Cavalella, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u99	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this shipwreck has shown that the state mechanism has been caught in the sleep, inadequate once again and possibly unreliable. It is a bitter opportunity, however, to reflect on it. It is a painful opportunity to be used as the beginning of decision-making and measures. What remains, ladies and gentlemen, in Greece is our seas, our tourism, our shipping. The Centro Association is the party of measure and logic, and we will not rush to give responsibilities. The issue is a multifaceted one. The New Democracy is in a hurry to rule and exploit a national tragedy. But I want them to tell us about their own failures. After all, you and PASOK, gentlemen of the New Democracy, have ruled for many years, you have set up this inadequate state mechanism. This ship two years ago had received certificates from your own government. I guess she wouldn't get old in two years. There would then also be problems that could have evolved into your own government. So leave the screams. Mr Mitsotakis spoke very strongly to the Minister yesterday. I'm sure she already regrets it. I don't have any delusions. And SYRIZA, if it were opposition, in the same or even worse way, might have reacted, with dugs, conquests, protests. We therefore note that it is for today's parties to vote on bodies. From an autopsy I have done on a port ship, I have found that the situation is controlled - we have to say this because the Greek people are concerned - but the damage has been done and it is great and lasting. The environmental damage in a marine area already has a great deal to do with it is doubtful. However, it is still difficult to assess its final size. To this end, we need vigilance. The consequences for economic life on the coasts of Saronicos, such as tourism, fishing, etc., are unpleasant. Of course it's unnecessary to say. Immediate interventions are required, supportive by the state, because these consequences will be consolidated and our economy will receive another major blow. The control system for the airworthiness of maritime means remains under a great question. How can these boats take extensions? Has it been shown that the state mechanism - I will say from flaws, from lack of coordination, because it does not have the appropriate means? - he didn't react as we would have expected. The development of things will, of course, give answers to all of them. Here and now it takes mapping all the wrecks that still contain thousands of tonnes of fuel oil and are immersed in the Greek seas. Immediately, there must be tougher conditions in the tankers because they are mobile bombs. If anything happens to a tanker, the catastrophe in Greece, which has a long coastline, will be without a return. We must build on prevention. There must be a directness and vigour of the means of addressing and modernising them, a stricterisation of penalties and a stifling of the smuggling. We all have to unite, all parties in such cases, to identify mistakes and shortcomings, so that we can lay down new rules, build the mechanisms. We are a European state. I imagine we will also have Europe's support on this. Before closing, I would like to remind the Government that it is currently responsible for catching. A higher committee should be set up, a clear answer should be given as to whether or not we can consume these species, because the market and health of Greek citizens are currently under a big question mark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr Cavadela, for the time-consuming economy. The Parliamentary spokesman from Potami Mr Amyras has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened to Mr Kurublis, of course, the Minister for Maritime Affairs, saying that today there is a boat sunken in Elefsina with four thousand tonnes of fuel oil, as well as dozens of ecological bombs - seawrecked in Piraeus. That's extremely creepy. I wonder about this. What will you do, Minister and gentlemen of the government, so that one of these dozens of ecologically immersed bombs will not explode in Piraeus? What are you going to do specifically with that ship you're talking about? What shipwreck is that? Where is it, and how will your Ministry treat the submerged ship with the 4,000 tons of fuel oil, as you said? We're really interested in seeing what we're going to do. Dear Minister, because I like to be open and clear, I want to say that I made a mistake in the committee that I published the dead fish post. As it turns out finally - he corrected the site later - it wasn't like that. I take my responsibility, it was wrong. But will you take your responsibility? What's your responsibility? The fact that you left a moderate shipwreck of a small tanker in a huge ecological problem for the whole of Attica. He said before Mr. Kammenos of the ANELs that responsibility should be attached to the entire hierarchy. I imagine, Mr Colleague, that you also mean the hierarchy of the leadership of the Ministry of Shipping. That's what I guess, otherwise it's not the whole hierarchy. It's half, the loss, or the service. So what's the conclusion? The SYRIZA who was refining the Botanic cord has swallowed the camel of the Saronic amazite! And remind me of one more thing. This government is based on the votes of both members of parliament, the MEPs of the Ecologists' Party. One of them is Minister. He also served as Deputy Minister for the Environment. So I want to say that environmental crime - because we are talking about crime, when everything was supposed to be well and mobilised, and all the protocols were implemented as it should be, and yet we have this result - has the signature of SYRIZA - ANEL and the Epologian party. Is there a question of political responsibility? Of course there is. I shall speed up some indicative steps that will lead us to conclude whether or not the Minister should resign. So the tanker went down on Sunday 10 September. Your Ministry's first announcement, dear Mr. Kurubli, was written reassuringly and in a routine manner. He said that the local plan for dealing with pollution incidents was put in place and a scattered rainy coffee-colored pollution was detected in the morning at 7.25 ́. The Minister, Mr. Kourublis, was in Thessaloniki for the speech of the Prime Minister and the head of the port in Spetses. Let's actually go. Three days later, on Tuesday, September 12, while half of Salamis and half of the coastal area Mr. Kourublis was in London, where his Deputy Minister was in his constituency, Rhodes, to participate in the sanctuary of the schools. Is that bad? Oh, no. Do you know what's bad? The fact that you didn't understand as the head of the ministry that you had to mobilize. But did you have a bad briefing from the port, from your services? You must tell us why you have not been mobilised and not all of you have been in Athens to deal with the situation and give personal instructions where you should. It's indicative that you didn't understand the situation in Saronic. In fact, on that day the Ministry draws you up a press release saying: "The Ministry's reaction to Saronic pollution". If that was the quick reaction, then we burned for a less rapid reaction! You were also reassuring, Mr. Kourublis, saying that 95% of the hole has been sealed and a little time later the mayors of Saronida, Glyfada, Piraeus and even Faliro find fuel spots on their shores. Wednesday, 13 September: You say again, Minister, in an interview with the "REAL" that the spot was limited to Salamis, but it seems that underground currents took a percentage and moved it due to weather conditions. At first, then, in your view and logic, the accident was difficult and it was unfortunate because it happened at night and then it was sea currents! Do you know what reminds me of? They remind me of the earlier recommendations, at the time of the nuclear accident in Chernobyl, which said: "You eat fearless lettuces so as not to fall victim to the American propaganda for the nuclear accident". That is what these 'rights' remind me of, as I shall say. Fortunately, Mr. Blonde saved the situation a little. He announced his ministry and said: Swimming on most beaches in Attica is prohibited. But, above all, I come back to the economists who do not see them in the Chamber today - about government responsibilities. None! The responsibilities are nameless: Government Tsipras - Kammenos with the participation of the Economists. Should there have been resignations? Do you know what's happened? Mr Tsipras himself said so indirectly. So what did he do? Friday, September 15, six days after the shipwreck, it convenes to Maximos a meeting and instructs, among other things, the following: the immediate withdrawal of certificates of airworthiness set by extensions - which has been given by your Ministry, i.e. - the conduct of extraordinary checks and the conduct of the SAD for the crisis of "Agia ZONIS II". Who is the person responsible for giving extensions to the permits of a rotioracus, as is evidenced in fact? Who gave this permission to carry oil, to have patches in the holds, as the group of seafarers denounced it, and to end up with nostalgics at the bottom of a protected vagina in Salamis, and suddenly to make it come and see environmentally? The Prime Minister also decided on the immediate transfer of the power to control and inspect ships from the trade inspection sector to the classification societies. So, as I told you in committee, congratulations. You've just made your first privatisation. Because of incompetence - to stress - of your own government has given it to the classification societies. So, let us just say it in another way: does Mr Kurublis have to resign? Does Tsipras need to take Kourublis out of the Ministry? I guess it doesn't have to be because he ripped Mr. Kurublis out the ministry of his hands. He ripped out the commercial ship inspection. In other words, the Ministry fell apart, but he kept the Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, what I am interested in is how, by what process, will the ecosystem cleanse the world. Unfortunately, it'll take years. We are now reading it from the scientists: at least two and a half years to clean up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u102	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u103	I shall conclude, Mr President. When will the bottom of Attica be cleaned? When are you going to defend the survival of the fisherman? In what way? When will you clean up the sands, the rocks, the islands? These are the questions I have not heard yet. In conclusion, Mr President, I should like to say something. Mr. Tsipras made a statement yesterday about two and a half years - in fact - of his election victory. And I'm saying, wasn't a consultant found to protect him? He wrote, while we have the shipwreck in progress, unfortunately, still: "We are still in the water and we swim, but our head is out and we see the land clearly." That's what Mr. Tsipras said. Let the Prime Minister notice this - I would ask you to pass it on to him - because "AYIA ZONI" on the two hundred meters from the land was and he boasted and filled our black black beaches. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr. Amyras. Ladies and gentlemen, the circle of Members of Parliament is completed with Mr Dritsa and we then move on to the abbreviations of Members of Parliament. We'll start with Mr. Placiotakis, and then we'll find her. Mr. Dritsa, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. I can admit or even say to the House that some of the things that have been heard by the honourable Members and other Members of the opposition parties may be considered appropriate and useful and appropriate and truly creative. But they will be lost, ladies and gentlemen. They will be lost as long as the Opposition and especially the Civic Opposition are attracted by the vigilant exploitation of all events and events, in order to make timely use of its agonizing effort to reconvene the government and power, destructive the government that is politicizing in the way it is politicizing and considering this to be a responsible policy. It's not a responsible policy. And it is not just a responsible policy for Parliament, not only for the political life of the country, but also for the economic, productive and social life of that country, for its future and its prospects. It is a disastrous policy, a zero policy, a hypocritical policy, an absolutely hypocritical one, and that is the major disadvantage of the New Democracy, because everyone understands the causes of the pathogenesis that exist and their history. And we have a government today, which does not even think of taking responsibility for it, a government that comes from a position of principle that, if it is a government, is actually apologies and apologies seriously and responsibly. We will of course apologise to all Members and Members and to all of us. And we will put into the procedures, but also before the Greek society and the Greek Parliament, the issues on the basis of which we must also draw the immediate conclusions and the responsibilities, but also the medium- and long-term conclusions, because they are of great importance. We do not accept accidents. Of course there may be accidents in theory, but the state must begin, as in the roads, as in other disasters, by designs of no chance of accidents and even with such significant consequences. In this respect, the criteria cannot be general ignorance and general catastrophe or general affairs. There is a method of administrative and scientific and humanity and in all respects. It's happening at 2:30 a.m. at night. First negative factor in all respects. In ten minutes, according to official information, I said that it would be good for a representative of the New Democracy, the next day or the day after that to visit the Ministry of Shipping and ask for official information. The fact that they avoided it, in my opinion, is not why they didn't think it was to have their hands and their mouths broken, to say what they want in the irresponsible way. Because when you go, as I did then at the Norman ATLANTIC, you commit yourself, because you have the official information. And that's responsible. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] When, at 2.30 p.m., the signal comes from a parallel vessel in the centre of undertakings, officially registered and in ten minutes after the verification is carried out, the signal of activation of the emergency intervention plan is given in all directions, this is not oligopoly. That's not total blemish! When all procedures begin overnight to protect a potential risk of human life - first concern - then to describe and understand the issue, then to activate procedures for waterproofing, then to block the area and arrive at a year, which I do not want to make comparisons at that time and now, but compared to all the cases that we have in mind, was the time when the watering was started, it went on and the process started to prepare for the pumping was that oligoria? If you tell me that at the time the whole question was not assessed, I would admit it. But let one come here to say that there was a scientific, practical, organisational, technical method at that time to see the responsibilities, because that is the only way to measure these responsibilities, when you measure these things and not when you discover questions of total ignorance, supposedly. That is not justified, because we all know that shipping is a powerful field of enormous interests, of competitive interests: banks, insurance companies, shipowners, shipowners, transporters, agents. You know this all, especially in the New Democracy, very well and has its prints and its aspects at every moment. The management of the unification of all of these on the part of the public service, the public service or the Port Authority in order to impose what must be imposed, is a huge business in the composition of conflicts, and you need to go beyond them and be above them. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, of the history of Aegina last year and I wonder: When I ran right into the tragic accident in Aegina, I was accused with the same logic, degrading, that I went there to cover up. Now the Minister is accused, Mr. Kurublis, of not going and thus covering up. It's not much space. Kardock, you are literally Kardock, but that is not a policy, and that is why they will be lost, and whatever is right and proper points from you and from anywhere else, because there is no public life. I want to say - and I thank you for your tolerance, Mr President, but I want two more minutes - that the wrecks in the Gulf of Elefsina - to say for you, Mr Amyras, and for everyone - is a chronic problem. The Municipality of Elefsina environmental organisations have been calling for years. You know what's going on? The person responsible is transferring responsibility and responsibility supposedly to someone else, who has no property, and from there on the system is trumping. Indeed, all these shipwrecks are - I will not speak with words and phrases of impression - 'bombs' or I do not know what outbreaks of contamination. Obviously it is. What did we do? We founded the Public Authority of Ports, the one that would're-state' the port of Piraeus and'state' and all of this. Do you know what the Public Port Authority has already done for the Piraeus Shipyards? I do not have the time to list all the activities - over ten - which has started and will begin - after ten, twenty, thirty years of all these shipwrecks - in our term of office, in our government, the process of resolving this very difficult problem of the shipwrecks in the Gulf of Elefsina. What did we do about smuggling? Already...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u106	Tell us about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u107	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u108	Finish this, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u109	I can assure you that a systematic effort has been in place since February 2015 in this very difficult grid of interests, with legal fronts and illegal loopholes, but which wants and endurance and intelligence and flexibility and protection of this preparation. Already there was, there is my ministerial decision in a transition process that foresaw the installation of electronic control and monitoring systems. It has not been implemented, but the framework has been established and it has been a transitional process.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u110	Mr. Drizza, I've doubled your time. Please, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u111	I shall conclude, Mr President. Inside this enthusiasm, which will disastrously operate once again and will discredit tourism and the environment in Greece and all of this - but we do not think about them - the issue of the activation of the EMSA ship is also raised, which is indeed a very important tool. The ministers have already answered, they will answer again. I shall submit to the minutes the calendar of the ship's bridge, in order to disprove Mr Georgiadis in full of the allegations he raised, where it appears that on 13 September he mentions 2.00' and then 7.30'' in the morning, as a result of the disconnection of the landing pipeline, a machine for readiness, a start of cancellation, a complete decommitment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u112	Other than others. He's got all the paper I deposited.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u113	On September 13, the bridge diary in Drapetsona.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u114	You're Minister and you should know what you're reading.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u115	Please. Finish it. Approximately fourteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u116	I'm not an interrogator, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u117	I'll explain it to you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u118	I'm not an interrogator.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u119	Shame on you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u120	Mr Georgiadis, let us clarify this: I am not an interrogator, and I am using a great deal of enthusiasm and never with the impression that we are supposed to present them in the Minutes. I don't, because I know the truth has many facets and we can't talk like that, so skeptical. But what I want to tell you is that this theatrical presentation of yours before it can't be valid, because there's a ship's calendar that says otherwise.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u121	Mr. Dritsa, please very much, finish up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u122	He's got all this stuff here. You didn't even read. They dragged you once more.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u123	Let's look it up for you and all of us a lot longer. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Theodoros Dritsas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I'm done, Mr. President. This government, no matter how responsible it is - and will take it - for everything that has happened in this period, to know that it is the only government that can really be in a system, with perseverance, with perseverance and with temptation to correct pathogens and crimes of many decades.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u124	We have completed the protagonists of all the Members of Parliament. You have all taken advantage of the tolerance of the Bureau. I would ask you, in order to be able to finish in a reasonable time, to be as close to the time you are entitled to. We're starting with Mr. Plakatakis from New Democracy. Mr. Comrade, you have five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u125	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, we have received absolutely no response either to our objections or to the tragic oligopoly of the state administration, nor to the causes of the maritime accident, nor to the decontamination process, nor to the effects on the business, economic and social life of the coastal front. Minister, you told us about the implementation of local projects. Then you told us about the implementation of a national plan. So, what kind of stuff did you guys do? We told you that from the very beginning you had to implement the national plan, which practically means that you are triggering everything and everything. You must admit that you have been short, that you have underestimated this fact and did not take all those necessary measures. You told us he wasn't due to the Ministry and expected a depollution company from the shipowner. Mr Minister, on the basis of Dr. 197/95 and under Dr. 270/95, you yourself should have initiated the procedure. Mr. Kurubli, it seems that after the naval accident, after the shipwreck, you should manage your own shipwreck staff. Of course, in any case, Mr Kurubli, we should not expect God in the long run, in order to take an opinion and knowledge of both the causes and, of course, all the procedures that should have been carried out in time. Mr. Curublis, you're not young in this Chamber. You have a great deal of experience and governmental and parliamentary experience. You have in the drawers of your Ministry - you have been delivered - a draft law on the certification of ship inspectors in order to be in line with the internationally in force and, unfortunately, still remains in your drawers. What did we hear today? Communication, attempt to create a scapegoat. It's all the shipowner's fault. It's not the Ministry's fault. It's been established in time. It's all about smuggling. It's all the companies' fault. Any pathogens there are to come and talk about them. That's another story. If there are, put forward concrete proposals, not intelligence, not an attempt to disorientate. Mr Minister, for as long as there is still a time as political ethics, courage and ethics you have at last taken on your own responsibilities. Finally, the government should assume its responsibilities, because the consequences of the shipwreck are enormous. You, if you did not understand, on Tuesday morning, when you publicly informed the Greek people that everything was going well and is under control, you took political and operational responsibility as well. In an operational ministry, Minister, of course, the chief has it. It is the Minister who oversees his services, the Minister is the one taking immediate initiatives. So you, Minister, have taken the full responsibility, political and service.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr. Plakyotakis. Mrs Bakoyannis is next and, by way of exception, the President of the Potamio, Mr Theodorakis, who will be speaking next. You have the floor, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u127	Ladies and gentlemen, I will not deal with what Mr Curublis has not said. I think that after Mr Kurubli's today's vatorium there is no continuity. But I would like to reply to Mr Dritsa, and I regret that he is not in this Chamber. He described the New Democracy's policy as hypocritical and irresponsible. Ladies and gentlemen, where was hypocrisy and where was irresponsibility? The New Democracy has chosen to highlight all the weaknesses in the management of this crisis. He had to do it as a Qualified Opposition and had to do it seriously and responsibly and he did so. Are you disturbed, ladies and gentlemen, why did Mr Mitsotakis go to the affected areas? Are you disturbed why he went and talked to the fishermen? Are you disturbed why he went to talk to the taverns? That's our job. Our job is to choose how best contact is possible, so that we can have full awareness of the reality of the risks and measure the costs. In the New Democracy, ladies and gentlemen, we have done what your Government has not done. Mr Mitsotakis invited us to a meeting, with a mandate to tell him about where and how the compensation will be granted and how we will be able to protect the citizens affected. We filed it in public. On the mandate of Mr Mitsotakis, two colleagues are leaving tomorrow specializing in Brussels to go and inform Brussels so that even from the small programmes that do not allow large amounts, we can get them in time. We held the alarm over the Ministry that the way in which we handled it would jeopardize the possibility of demanding compensation. Where is irresponsibility, ladies and gentlemen? To compare a little what your attitude used to be. I want to speak to the SYRIZA of tomorrow and Mr Dritsa, whom I respect and appreciate, with all the great differences we have. He referred to smuggling. Ladies and gentlemen, I have asked three questions about smuggling, not only because the government had it'significant', but because I saw that of the twenty-seven thousand checks carried out by the previous government, this government has done two and a half thousand. Twenty-seven thousand two and a half. Without checking you can't know whether or not it's actually smuggling. You don't smell smuggling. You control it. We arrive and ask the government today: “How is it possible, you guys? Has there not been control of this ship and of the one and the other ship that went to make the return?' 'It is', he says, 'hybris'. Where, ladies and gentlemen, is it from? Where and where is he from? Where did you get that written? Is it inappropriate to ask a question and say 'Have you not done your job, gentlemen?' Good or bad, you haven't done your job and you haven't done your job either in the field of control of smuggling. Mr. Drits told us that he's signed an electronic control decision. I salute her. Can you tell me why Mr. Drizzas just left, nothing happened? Can you tell me why he didn't move on? How, by magic, did it stop? Do you not feel the need to explain to the Greek people exactly what has happened and to give up on us for irresponsibility and a lack of responsibility? I understand the desperate effort of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, seeing the feelings of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group today, to make a minimal effort to unite. But, ladies and gentlemen, in life and politics, the truth is not hidden. When reality disguises you, you can't do anything. All you can do is tell the truth, take your responsibility and go home as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mrs Bakoyannis. Mr Stavros Theodorakis has the floor. Do you want ten minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u129	No, less. Don't say the same thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u130	I'm putting you eight and managing your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u131	Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So why did the accident happen? Why? Why did he sink the ship? Why did the beaches get black? Why did our soul get black? Why? I went to Salamis, to the moons, the second, third day. I was asked by the residents, firstly, why the ministers didn't come. You know, they think on the beaches that we're all company and we're all going together. They asked me: "Why is the Minister not here to tell us how to live with these black beaches?" A lady came with her child in a continually burial cry to repeat the phrase: "These beaches may not be the most beautiful in the world, but they are our seas. Our lives were destroyed and destroyed.' So the question remains. Why was the accident? Watch out. I read: 'Responsibility has a society as a whole and a global economy dependent on oil and a hard lobby, which does not allow us to invest such that we protect our shores'. This is not a report of ideas. It is not a sentence of a student in his revolutionary outbursts or a member of the Teenian Parliament. It's a phrase of the Minister of Government. That's why the accident happened. It is the responsibility of society. He has no responsibility, neither does his government nor Mr Kurublis. Nobody. In other words, the demagogy in which we should have had responsibility, seriousness, recognition of responsibilities and, anyway, restraint. But it is easy to blame for always being in the malicious society, in capitalism, in the large oil companies, which are anonymous, and in whatever other distant ones everyone imagines. We must say that we have many problems in our seas and in the Saronic. We know that half the ships are basically sarcastic, they are very old and the possibility of an accident in the Aegean Sea is very great and because it is difficult for the Aegean and because the routes are unspecified and because we have many rock islands. There is, therefore, an increased problem in the Aegean. That is why the civilised states and the European Union have a strict legislation, they have a strict technology which largely prevents these disasters. It is well known - and others have said so - that the representative of the European Agency for Security said that Greece's request to the Agency reached three days late, late on 12 September, while the ship was sank - I remind you - at dawn on 10 September, while the representative stressed that there are always sixteen stand by ships, which could be quicker. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that, on the occasion of this incident, we should think more about our seas, we should prevent any other accident and there should be an effective mechanism that prevents and happens the accident, but also, when it occurs, speed up and prevents the spread of pollution. We need to tackle organised and, above all, rapid. With international standards, this accident in Saronicos was a small accident and we could - say the people who know - with an ally at the time, at those times, have had very little impact. All this, however, if we had a rapid intervention. Just going to a port ship - because I met the men of the port, who went after a few minutes to the accident - to put a dam in and then assess what else we can do, is not the right method. It should be noted that what has been revealed is that the airworthiness certificates of the ship that collects fuel in the ship were also expired and the ship had to be withdrawn. It shows a little the situation in Saronicos, as well as the fact that the master and the first engineer of the ship have been arrested for smuggling fuel. Something stinks in the Saronic, and that's a fact, and it's not just the lost fuel. But we had an opportunity much earlier through the Regional Operational Programme of Attica to prepare ourselves to deal with such accidents. I remind you - and those who do not know can look into it, because it is very important and has not been made public - that the Attica Operational Programme 2014-2020 provided a sum - not small, 155 million - for the protection of the environment. The programme could therefore include interventions to deal with incidents of marine pollution. The sole beneficiary of the project was the Region of Attica. If, therefore, the region had made use of the programme, we could have cleanup systems in coastal areas, in coastal towns, and there could have been an important response plan. From the black results it is clear that the SYRIZA - ANEL, this single movement that governs us, exports incapacity to the region, not only in the central state.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u132	And the Efologists.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u133	It really is hypocritical - and Mr Amyras reminds me of this - that the SYRIZA - ANELs are cut off on the ecological problems that any investor in every corner of the country can cause - to squeeze the movements against wind turbines, because they have many dangers, as you know, according to the rumour - and it is incapable of the government facing an ecological disaster. Here, unfortunately, are some additional questions that should concern us: How ready are we for oil extraction that we are preparing to do in the Aegean Sea and in southern Crete? You would know that in August we had the great plots that came out in the FEK. We are talking about areas in southern Crete, Kefalonia, Corfu, Lefkada. Is there a plan? Is there any preparation for all that can happen in these areas in these seas? So the country needs a strong wheel, which will not have amateurs, but a serious plan and a plan where we now have delusion and demagogy. In particular, in Saronics, there should be a comprehensive planning involving a state, local government, control mechanisms, private investors and ecological organisations. Where's what, who's where, who's doing what. In other words, seal the bottles so that we do not have any accidents or negligence or intent. The same must be done in the Aegean Sea, it must also be done in the Ionian Sea. On the occasion of this accident, reports came out of major organisations operating in our seas. I shall mention, for example, the Archipelagos. It's dramatic. Let us not make negative advertising in our country, saying from the Step of the House all that the Archipelagos reveals, but let us all take a look. The figures for our seas are dramatic, and something needs to be done. I think you will agree, ladies and gentlemen, that the seas and, of course, the Saronics are not our property. It is the property of the next generations and this thought we should have in the organisation, the plans and everything that should be done directly, to prevent such ecological accidents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Tragakis has the floor on behalf of the New Democracy. You will allow me, Mr President, before you begin your speech, to request the approval of this House of two empty colleagues. Parliamentarian Castoria of the New Republic, Mr Antoniou, seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad from 27 September to 1 October 2017. The Member, Mr Dannellis, also requests a short-day absence abroad from 26 September to 28 September 2017. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u135	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations. Come on, Mr President, for your second.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u136	Minister, in my protology I think I was mild enough to talk about underestimating the situation. But then your protology, which you said absolutely nothing and focused on attacking the New Democracy, I'm talking about criminal negligence. You have not answered any of the questions. Tens of questions have been raised by all colleagues. Will you allow me to insist on a question that I did not receive an answer: How many and what quality are they on board and what nationality do they have? I didn't get an answer. It is now coming out of what Mr Dritsa said - and it is right - that the signal that the ship was sinking gave it a parallel ship rather than the same one. What does that mean? Shouldn't that be investigated? Isn't it worth wondering?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u137	He's investigating.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u138	He's investigating. When? Don't you have any decisions?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u139	There's an interrogation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u140	There's an interrogation. You don't have one to tell us that way. So the names and qualities are secret, Minister? No, of course not.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u141	So, you're suggesting we hide it, Mr. Tragakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u142	You don't want to give it to the public.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u143	Because all things have a limit! Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u144	You don't want to? Excuse me, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u145	We've known each other for thirty years to say such things!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u146	Minister, you don't sound. It would be a good thing if we hadn't opened a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u147	...I will insist, Minister, on the question, and I will wait for this answer. There are other things here. What about the extensions? Who gave the extensions so the ship would be airworthy? You said you gave it up. So now you're taking control of the extensions, so you can take him to private corporations. A genius was that it was the first deprivation of the SYRIZA government. This will have an impact on tickets, because the companies will be paid? What about this? What about the ticket we're paying? You have invited Mrs. Nannou. On Tuesday morning - I will repeat it - with Mr Plakkatakis and Mr Athanasios, at the request of the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, we went to the moons and the mayor was there. And the mayor in despair shouted: “Do something! Can't you see the disaster?' I'll repeat it: The area of the spot was two and a half miles from Kinosoura. The whole Cynosura was infected, all the moons. The protective net that had been put in was not a tracosaurus. What could you do about it? So in the critical hours you didn't do what you had to do, and that's why we indulge you, Minister. Everyone says that the first eleven hours in this kind of shipwreck are the most critical hours. I'm still talking to you - I don't understand how many metric tons and what kind of oil and fuel oil the ship carried. I'm confused. I've heard two thousand five hundred seventy seventy, from the ELPE a thousand seven hundred thirty three more three hundred, and three hundred later I heard, plus the load he had for himself. I don't understand. We did not get any answer to that question either. Nor did we get an answer who paid the amount in the ELPEs. What destination did the fuels have? Where did they go? What quantity has it been pumped? Because we are interested in what quantity has been pumped, what quantity is there on board and what quantity has been leaked into the environment? We are also interested in restoring the environment, but we are particularly interested in compensation. What about the indemnity? It's a very important matter. In fact, I will stress - and keep it - it is a sensitive issue and it wants a great deal of attention to be paid to the issue of compensation. It is a matter that must concern us, that is a very serious matter. I think it's the dominant issue that should concern us from now on, because...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u148	That's why we have to be a little careful.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u149	We're careful, Minister, please. I am trying to give you a few words to understand exactly what the next day's target is. We need to know the evidence, to know how to deal with it. I will, however, insist on that, and I shall put it as a sovereign issue. I am referring to the pollution of the bottom. We've had years to get Salamis to the level she's at now. I would remind you that when on the Acrocrocrouma there was about one million cubic waste water every day, its bottom had about two and a half meters of sludge and no quality of life. We had a big fight to bring Saronic and Salamis into the situation that he was now. It was a situation that helped all the poor Greeks by bus, by tram to go to these shores and to bathe them. Now you've deprived them of that, and I don't know how long you've deprived them of it. For the ecosystem, however, I will insist that the years that are needed to restore the bottom are too much. You need to instruct specialist scientists to see and control this, because this is also a matter of concern to fishermen and the ecosystem in general, but it is also the most difficult one. As Mr. Georgiadis quite rightly said, the surface will be cleaned in thirty, forty, in fifty days. But how are we gonna clear the rocky coast, clean the bottom? That is what I think is the main issue, and that is what we did not get an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr. Tragakis. Mr Varvitsiotis has the floor on behalf of the New Democracy for his dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u151	Mr President, it is true that we have not received any answer to all the questions we have raised. It is unprecedented that this attitude should be re-evaluated, that we have done everything well since the beginning. If you did everything well, how did we end up here? Let me tell you one more thing about the question I asked how he was found six days later a dead woman on the beach of Faliro. That didn't even answer us. I have the port announcement. Did he see the coroner's report? I don't have her in mind. I'm waiting for an answer. This cannot raise the issues, circulate the news, and there is no official briefing. You must say, for example, that it is not the death of pollution, that others are the reasons for ending it. Answers need to be given. The Minister came here and asked us who the oil belonged to. Do we know? They're not giving us the answer. Who paid for it? He asked. No answer? He has to give it to us. He has to answer them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u152	You know!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u153	If you know them, answer them, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u154	You know.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u155	Leave the hints and answer them, tell us what you're doing today. Are these characterized as wastes or have you characterized them as active fuel? Who's running it? Are you incapable of answering something honestly, telling the truth, at last, once? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, it is truly regrettable that, instead of having an official serious, responsible position on the steps taken from now on, we should find a point of departure for the opposition, because it is asking. Because he's asking! Even with the dose of antipopulation exaggeration. Instead of reassuring public opinion, it creates even more questions, because it has not given any response to the issue of compensation. It gave no response to the question of coordination, from now on to the management of this shipwreck. He gave no answer to the recovery of Attica's image of the tourist front. It is also deafening, Mr President, the absence of the Regional Attica throughout this period. As if it happened in another district in the country. Twelve days Mrs Durou has not dealt with the matter. Twelve days! That's the responsibility of SYRIZA. Twelve days, Mrs. Duru is absent. There has been no meeting at the Ministry of Shipping, no action has been taken to use European funds for compensation or for detergents. Twelve days has not made a move to regain the tourist image of Attica. Where's Mrs. District Administrator? Where's SYRIZA's chosen one? Where would she put another person in local government? Where is she fighting for Attica's interests? She's gone, with the Prime Minister. It is the same logic that 'the crises are not about us, we are just about the applause'. Unfortunately, the responsible politicians are to manage the crises, not the easy and firm applause.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Mr. Varvitsiotis. Mr. Screkas has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u157	Mr President, it turns out, unfortunately, that with SYRIZA coming to the government of this place, a lot of bad things have happened. The last thing is what we are talking about today. It is true, Mr President, that this has escaped government control. The Minister himself said so, I heard him report it on a radio show in an interview with a large radio in Athens. "The situation has escaped, because we did not expect it," said the Minister. And the Minister must answer why they underestimated the situation as he admitted. Why, Minister, did you not expect this accident to take place at long last? Who is he, who created this wrong impression for you? And why don't you mention him and why don't you blame him? With SYRIZA's advent to the government of our country, a lot has been done. But there has also been the greatest marine environmental disaster that has been done in this place. And the so-called environmentally sensitive SYRIZA is nowhere to give up responsibility. No one is to blame for what has happened! And that's not all. And by the Minister present and by the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Famello, the relevant Committee on the Environment of the Parliament, which took place two days ago, everything went perfectly! And even though everything went perfectly today, unfortunately, tens of miles of steam coastline are full of fuel. And the question is, Mr Minister, even today, at the last moment, do you intend to do something to limit, at least, this disaster that has occurred? I will be essential and constructive, saying that the most modern and latest method of rehabilitation and decontamination in marine space is biodegradation. What does "biology" mean? It means the use of bacteria, micro-organisms, which are fed by oil, fuel oil, and in this way they can help decontamination and rehabilitation. In order to do this, however, Minister, unfortunately, in Greece we need adjustments to the institutional framework so that these micro-organisms can be used. My question is specific. Do you, of course, intend, with the cooperation of the co-legislative ministries and the relevant ministries, to proceed with the necessary adjustments to the institutional framework so that micro-organisms and bacteria, such as those used with particular success in the Gulf of Mexico, then leaked eight hundred thousand tonnes of oil, so that you can help, at least at the latest, the quickest and most effective restoration of the disaster, which, unfortunately, you, as government, have allowed it to happen in our country? Please answer whether you have taken this into account and if you intend, at least now, to take this initiative into account.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Mr. Screka. Mr. Katsafantus has the floor for his denology for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u159	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, unfortunately for you, you were very predictable. You confirmed what I said in my prototype. You said that there is no responsibility, you did not, unfortunately, give answers to the questions that we have asked you and, of course, you have all been blaming the previous ones, saying that you are not more than two and a half years in this government and that you are not Minister for so long. In all that you have said, you have also said a great truth, that the local plans to combat the problem have been implemented. The question I had asked you, Minister, in my protology is to tell us who this service factor was or who prompted you to implement the local projects rather than the national plan. Because, as it turns out, he bears a very great responsibility for the development that the situation has. Minister, you could have been informed by the Commissioner of the Port House, who I know made friendly efforts and I have a full picture that even on Tuesday morning - because in his prology you said about the oil spill in Piraeus that he came on Tuesday night, he didn't come on Tuesday night, he came on Tuesday at noon - asking for information. And the briefing he had, Minister, is that everything is controlled, that there is no leak and that, of course, there is no way that the pirate peninsula might get closer to the stone. And then we ran to pick up the uncooked ones. That is the reality, Minister. And, indeed, what I can't understand is why you haven't transferred, and you haven't given responsibility to those who really have it, to those who have informed you wrong. I cannot understand - that is a great concern - what can cause you not to blame those who have misinformed you and then started this little bit of lies and misinformation. To close, with the auditors from the Ministry of the Environment, Minister, I would like you to tell me which Monday you refer to.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Mr. Katsafado. The cycle of the second readings of the honourable Members has been completed. The government's word for dentistry has been asked by the State Secretary for Maritime and Island Policy, Mr Santorinios. The Minister will also answer Mr Kurublis. Parliamentary representative Georgiadis will follow and then the Minister will answer. Minister, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u161	Mr President, for such an event the debate should have been of another character and the opposition would have withstand to enter into a dialogue that could have produced a good result for the place. Unfortunately, all they care about is that the Minister resigns and let us lie so much, because something remains. It's a logic that had been applied before. I don't want to make designations. The New Democracy says 'you have delayed'. And the New Democracy, which would not be delayed and caught the thing in time, submitted the request on Wednesday at noon, when this morning, on a radio show, I said that I have asked to send a request to convene the committee. Then the New Democracy recalled that it should be convened. That's the truth. Why didn't he do it Monday? Why did he send it on Tuesday at noon and didn't send it on Monday? So, for the Greek people to listen. You think the Greek people don't listen to what we say here? And you know me, and he knows me, and he knows us all. Let's have some self-control. We do not imagine that you possess the only truth and say it with such persuasiveness. You don't convince anyone. That's why you're going to live a constant shipwreck in the Opposition. That's what's gonna happen. Don't worry. Let's get started, Mr. President. There's been a whole story about this famous EMSA ship. Yes, sir. Do you know when this ship is in Greece? I doubt you know that. Since 2009 it has been based in Greece. When did you use it? Haven't there been any more shipwrecks? Didn't it happen? And you come here, with that look of the prosecutor, lying to lie and slain to misery. Here, Mr President, take and share, please, the EMSA declaration. [[At this point, the Minister Panagiotis Kourublis presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is the statement yesterday that says that outside the ship that was in Greece, which Mr Dritsas proved in the bridge diary that he was released on Tuesday night or Wednesday morning - because he was picking up, you want me to tell you, the oil of Patmos, since you want me to speak like this - and it was in the contract, what could we do? We could call the three closer. What were the three closest? Why are you flying on the table “sixteen available”? In fact, it was sixteen available. Which one was closer? Malta, Cyprus and Bulgaria. How many days each? Read. Mr. Tragakis, read it. And you're going out on a radio tomorrow to say I'm a liar.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u162	What about me?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u163	No, I am. You guys go out and tell me I'm a liar. But read it, especially you, because I know what kind of person you are, and I appreciate you all these years. Read it and go out tomorrow and say the Minister is a liar. Read the EMSA paper and the statement he made yesterday, that the fastest he wanted three days and ten hours. And one more thing you don't know yet. Why am I telling you that you're impatient? You're out of your mind. Because the EMSA regulation says: 'The country that will ask for assistance from this ship must have exhausted its national capabilities. And when he finds out, then a signal will be given and this ship can be ready in twenty-four hours and start traveling about where he should come. That's the truth, and only the truth. Everything else is goebelled by the people who love Goebbels. Mr President, the issue of prolongation has been raised. Who voted for the law on extensions? SYRIZA and Kourublis? So, if you want this - in 2013, it was repaired and it became two-fold and you gave it this extension. And you came through the media to say that he has my signature! Such misery has happened against me! And he was going to be repaired and ten days were given and two months of extension. I will return to the New Democracy. I heard Mr. Theodorakis. Mr Theodorakis, the second oil ship - I do not know if Mr Theodorakis is here - the deadline for his extension on 19 September has expired. No extension was given to him. He left the day before, interrupted, in order to get the procedure to be done in the ELPEs. We didn't give him any extensions. I don't know what information you have. Ladies and gentlemen, so much has been said, but lying is short. And you had to come here with more honesty. Research on this ship and on the whole treatment of the issue can be found to be weaknesses. But right now, we're fighting war. It'll be time for the responsibilities. And I would like to say to Mrs Bakoyannis - because she told me about democratic sensitivities - that I am not a son of Prime Minister. I'm the son of a farmer from Ioannina. And here I arrived through my social struggles and not because I was adopted with interests and stories. We need to be informed, if you want to talk like that. That's why Kurublis is your target, because you don't find anything else. I heard my friend, old companion, Andreas Loverdo. You're unfair to yourself, Andreas. I didn't say 95% of the oil was closed. On Monday morning I said that the immersion was restricted to 95%. That's what I said, not that 95% of oil was closed inside. How am I supposed to say it? It must be measured what was inside to draw the conclusion of what fell into the sea. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Kamines - man lives, well! - It took me five days or six days after the accident, on Sunday if I'm not mistaken, and he told me that he could send two extra experts from Rotterdam port to see how they can advise us in the effort we're doing. Have you heard what these people have said? Or is Kamines pilgrimage? Because when you say something here in Parliament, it must be based on evidence and there must be no inseparable verbs. What happened, ladies and gentlemen? People came, they went, they saw, they were informed of the effort we're making. You didn't say a good word about trying. These twelve, thirteen days changes day after day the image and restores the image. And we'll be there forty days on October 10, and we'll count. And I want to assure you, Mr Screka, that the most modern means there is to be used. Because we put the University of Crete and any research centre there is that can advise us in this direction, do so. Mrs Bakoyannis told us that Mr Mitsotakis had given us a mandate to go to Brussels. But these are funny things. There is the Green Fund, the Blue Fund, and there is the international organisation that is so well informed that the New Democracy that Mrs Bakoyannis yesterday did not know his title. It is the International Capital Compensation Organisation for Pollution. But he wants this issue - and I tell you - very careful handling and I close here, I do not continue. From the very beginning we have activated our contact because Greece is a member of this organization. And Mr. Mitsotakis is here to tell me with a tomb, to catch me undetected. But, unfortunately, once again, it was not possible to do this. Is it important for a man to have courage, but when the courage is attempting to become courage? Mr. Georgiadis, on the day he left the Ministry, called on the officials to sign a decision - so that the Greek people could understand it if you want to talk about it - and no official had signed it. It is the only ministerial decision in Greece that has only one signature. What did this decision say, Mr. Loverdos, allied to Mr. Georgiadis? I'll tell you. He abolished the decision of Giannis Diamandidis, who, in finding out the "monuments" of the little classification societies, because they issued certificates on the phone, set terms and conditions and specifications and told them "if you wish to function, within six months you will adapt to these specifications otherwise you will be closed". So it abolished this wise initiative by Giannis Diamantides and today, now that we are going to table all this change in the framework, one could also take with an application for a classification permit. And he comes here to Parliament and is addressed to the Greek people by the saint, who knows nothing about the crime. You don't know anything about the smuggling crime. Mrs. Bakoyannis tabled three questions. And? All these years, what about smuggling? When you come here, Mr. Varvitsiotis, you will be careful because I and Drits made a decision and said that whatever orders the Port will make will be made in Greece. What have you guys done? You went and gave 50% for the ordering of six ships to Croatia's grocery shipyard! Greece didn't have the chance to build wells!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u164	How many orders have you given for two and a half years now? No orders. You haven't had one competition for two and a half years.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u165	Listen, whatever order is to be made, it will be in Greece, sir, and not in the nicknames, since you want here to talk like that. Not to tell you how you used subsidies in the Aegean and did not have a reliable transport.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u166	The Cythiras have a ship?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u167	The district managers themselves tell you that he changed the landscape in the Aegean Sea. The regional authorities themselves because we make the best use of the Greek people's money. Because then the money served the shipowners and now they serve society in the Aegean Sea and our islands.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u168	Please don't open a dialogue to complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u169	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u170	No personal attacks.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u171	What did you do, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u172	I didn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u173	I'm not talking about you personally. Ladies and gentlemen, will you tell the Greek people that, for an extension of 15 years, there has been no system of input-outputs in either the refineries, the tanks or those socks? We ordered control of all these ships, but that's not enough. It will be tabled next week, with the Prime Minister's mandate limiting their age. Did you not know that it was necessary to do so and you never did so because you did not want to harm the interests of the interlocutor? And since you are so innocent, as you say, I urge you to draw a conclusion from this story, because I have prepared a press report to the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, which I request that all the innocent decisions on smuggling be reviewed over the last ten years and so that there is no question of limitations, I ask her to be composed as crimes and money laundering. I will send you to all the parties on Monday, so I will see who you will sign it so that we can all present it together. Because I believe that it will benefit the political world, because it is a great question in our society that is voting for us and honours us, and I hope that you will all sign it to put it together. It will be a great incision to public life and to the morality of the political world that I believe.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u174	Minister, you have a tritology.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u175	I'm closing, Mr. President. Secondly, this whole story is not just about Greece, gentlemen. There are not only accidents in Greece. Accidents occur in both Sweden and many European countries. An accident, a ship sinks. From that point of view, all controls will also be thoroughly monitored for the responsibilities of all of us. All of us, I'm telling you. From that point on, I believe that this whole plan will need a re-enlargement. And here we have to work - I have committed myself - to bringing such a project to the Committee on the Environment, to discuss it, to fill it with the ideas, opinions - what Mr Theodorakis said, and, indirectly, to have a more efficient, more operational and more counter-territorial plan. As far as detergents are concerned, as you said, we did not use a single kilo of chemicals. The effort is mechanical, we will continue, we will measure, and there we as a government will be faced with the effectiveness that we will bring to this effort. These are, ladies and gentlemen, the proposals I wanted to put to the end of this debate and I would like to call on Parliament in such a spirit at least on these two issues, and on the re-enlargement that will come as a proposal and on a number of issues such as limiting the life expectancy of these ships, the new conditions for the specifications of classification societies, which, if not adapted, will be closed, and the reference, at least, to these issues of convergence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Loverdos has been asked for the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u177	I didn't raise a personal issue. Every time he hears his name, he puts a personal issue. I'll answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u178	Mr. Loverdos will analyse it for a minute. I would just like to make it clear that the reference to Mr Georgiadis is about Mr Adoni Georgiadis and not me. Mr. Loverdos, you have the floor for a minute, because we've gone too far from time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u179	Mr President, a word before I refer to the staff to the Minister, who referred to me and to an alliance with a colleague, Mr Georgiadis. I would like to say to him that if there is an issue of alliances and questions around it, it is his alliance with Mr Kammenos, who is three years old and has the evolution he has. That's all about alliances. As far as the substance is concerned. Mr Kourublis, your words here confirm my credibility and my documentation. The website "REAL FM" has an interview with you and with sound – it is not a matter of Parliament to listen to you all here - where you identify the amount of fuel at three thousand two hundred tons and say that it is sealed 95% and that only 5% has leaked and reassured everyone that, since 95% has been sealed and 5% has only leaked, there is no problem. Are your words proving what?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u180	You didn't understand...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u181	That you were unconscious of the scale of the problem. I have only invoked this and there is the written text...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u182	It's not like that. I said we limited the waterproofing to 95%.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u183	Minister, you will have time to answer. Let Mr. Loverdos finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u184	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u185	Mr. Loverdo, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u186	I repeat, therefore, that I have invoked a statement on his website 'REAL FM', because it was an interview that he gave there and there is his voice, where he has identified the quantity of three thousand tons. He has reassured the world and says there will be no problem. It has found that 95% of the load is sealed and leaked there is only 5%. If they're not his own words, then he should go out and say he doesn't know what he's saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u187	The leak is 95%...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u188	Mr President, therefore, I did not take the floor to continue my speech. My arguments put forward, but with regard to documentation, when it comes to it, must be more careful.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. Minister, would you like to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u190	I would like to say very well to Mr Loverdo: he is unfair. I honestly tell you you're unfair. I didn't say that. I said Sunday at 8:00, that the leak was limited to 80%. That information they gave me. And on Monday morning I said it was limited to 95% and on Tuesday morning it closed. That's what I said. Now how you've read it, I don't know. I didn't say anything else.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u191	Mr. President, excuse me...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u192	Please, let us finish, because the procedure is out of order right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u193	When a Member is questioned, it is very serious. Some say that anyone who objects to him inaccurates and misleads the House. As we opened this email, I am reading you from the "REAL FM", which Mr Kourublis said in particular: "The necessary orders and instructions have been given from the very beginning. The first attempt, which occurred immediately, was to seal the submerged ship. We've managed to seal 95%. I think that this afternoon, perhaps this afternoon, the oil extraction will begin. It has three thousand two hundred tons." And he added: "There is no risk of leakage anymore. What's gone, he's gone. He must have left at the time he was sinking."
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u194	Let's go on. It's done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u195	When I tell you you're unfair to yourself, you don't understand it. So what did I say? What does that say?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u196	Please...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u197	It's limited to 95%, so it runs a 5%. That's what he says. What are you talking about, Mr. Loverdos? We're going crazy!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u198	Minister, you're done. Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor for your dentistry. As long as you can stay in your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u199	Times have gone for a walk now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u200	I know, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u201	First of all, Mr. Kurubli, a little on staff, to know...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u202	I'll testify to the ministerial decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u203	Don't interrupt me. I'll talk and then you'll take the floor. Mr President, keep my time. When Mr. Kourublis became Minister of Health, we were together at the "MEGA" on the show by Mr. Evangelatos and Mrs. Tremi. He went out there and charged me with the gold contract with the World Health Organization and told me he'd take me to the Special Court. Do you remember it or not? A week ago, "AGEY" had a headline for Mr. Tsipras to sign the continuation of this contract and "AGEAN" Tsipras presented that he received the congratulations of the World Health Organisation. And now, I ask you, get up and apologize for what you were saying at the time. If you have pants...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u204	Mr. Georgiade, respectfully, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u205	All right, all right. Will you stand up and apologize now that Tsipras signed the gold contract? Oh, no. Do you know why? For the second reason I will tell you now before you come to the ministerial decision, Mr Phile, to understand who you are supporting and the style of what you are supporting. Mr Kourublis said: I am not the son of Prime Minister, I became a politician from my social struggles. No, Mr. Curublis, you've become a politician of the thousands. Because it's well known that you're the first one with PASOK. You had most appointings and most of the "monkey" allowances. So let us know something we're oldest here. That's why they helped you and they protected you and hid your own period, which as Secretary-General at the Ministry of Health you had the welfare and you shared the benefits to be a Member of Parliament. And you'll say about the sons of the prime minister! Let's go to the decision, to the new big revelation. Let us assume, then, that Mr Georgiadis has made a bad ministerial decision. Georgiadis, colleagues, was Minister for Maritime Affairs for ninety days. It says that on the last day - I do not remember, I suddenly resigned anyway, after events took place within twenty-four hours - it signed a terrible decision. After Georgiadis they passed Mousouroulis, Varvitsiotis, Dritsa. If I, Mr. Philly, have made such a bad decision, Mr. Drizzas, who's been here for a year and a half, why didn't he remove it? Because I think you're a moral element, and you can't talk about what we're seeing right now. You, the friend, you destroy the left. Because of you, the Left expects you to defend your struggles, your morality and your integrity, and your silence, because you were finally for the chair. And you know what, it's very nice to take the Left to your neck forever. 'Cause when you're good enough to leave, let me see how one of you get back up to talk about ecology, talk about resignation of a minister, talk about anything else. So, if Mr. Curublis, I made a bad ministerial decision, you being a Minister for a year and you haven't removed it, what are you? Now let's go to the last one, to Mr. Kurubli's other revelation. The previous ones did not put them in the interests, they were pawns of the interests of the oil traffickers and now SYRIZA will come to make the big change, even with two and a half years' delay. Two years Minister - see previous ones - was your co-pilot Panos Kammenos. Aren't you telling me, Mr. Dimitris Kammene, the previous ones who did the service, the ones who sell oil from ministers, you include your Chief Kammenos, who was two years there? Oh, no, they're all the other people, except Mr. Kammenos obviously. We are talking about such irrationalities to take out the humiliation he has suffered. Now we're going to the specifics. Mr. Dritsa, when you went up to this step you said that the signal was evacuated from a parallel ship. You have just said that, Mr Santorinios said "surely". And Mr. Kurublis. A minister, who a week later, Mr Santorinier, has no idea what is happening to him about such a serious issue as a shipwreck, which has caused such an ecological disaster, can live in his place? I've been up on my Twitter account just before I was up, the video from Mr. Georges' show last Saturday. In the fifth minute and thirty seconds, Mr Kourublis insists on a two-tier question from Mr Hughes that the signal was evacuated from the ship itself. I disagree. He's disgusting me. And then I take the floor and say: Mr. Santorinios, who was at the same time on another channel, Mrs. Fai Mavragani, explained that the signal left a ship on the other side. And I ask now: Minister, a week after the accident, it is on television and it is wrong to inform the Greek people of something that has destroyed half of Attica. Is it possible for this Minister to stay in his place? Now we're going to the denial of the document - it says - which you did. If possible, Mr. Dritsa! I appreciate you as Minister... I've filed a whole document. What you say about Drapetsona is here: 13 September. I didn't tell you when he went to Drapetson and when he made his final landing. I told you he arrived in Perama from September 11th at 14:30 at noon. Of course, he'd arrived on a load.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u206	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u207	Don't fly! But Mr. Kourublis said half the truth. He must have called her, but she's smashed her. Under the EMSA contract, which I have also tabled in the Minutes, the shipowner is obliged to pay! - to give it to the Member State within 24 hours. If, in other words, the Minister for Maritime Affairs had made the right assessment of the danger, where it turns out that he had not done it, he would have left to London on 10 September and 11 October, when he came, he would have had to get rid of the shipowner as quickly as possible. What I told you before and you didn't understand, let me tell you a little more. Of course, if the shipowner is a friend of yours and he says to you on the phone: "Let the request, Panayiotis, for a day or two after, I'm not damaged", then it is justified to make the request two days later. Only then can it be justified. It is also justified if you have not assessed the danger, which I accept as well. On both occasions, however, Mr Kurublis came to the House yesterday and falsely informed you that the ship arrived on Tuesday night, while the ship - as I said before - was in Perama from Monday at 14.30 hours at noon - in fact loaded - but no one was pressing them to unload quickly because it had not been sent to EMSA. What he said, and what he said, must first have exhausted the national instruments, of course. But who considers that? EMSA? No, the Minister judges it. The Minister, while making the request, has considered that national means are not sufficient. EMSA cannot say: 'Let me check if you have any more ships'. EMSA shall be obliged within 24 hours to send a ship. So this is the reality of an inadequate minister, which is obviously now being covered by an inadequate Prime Minister. Why don't we forget about the big one: Which other Prime Minister would keep Mr Kurubli in his place for so many days, where he makes you reckless for so many days that he has the courage to invoke the EMSA press release, he has the courage to say in his words 'don't lie', he has the courage to tell us the word'shipwalk'? The word "shipwreck", the word "fly", the words "political responsibilities", do not say it again, Mr Kurubli, in your life ever! And only one good thing you've done in Greece. Just one good one! You unraveled all of them. Today we are having this debate in this House, ladies and gentlemen, and from Members from the so-called SYRIZA economists, no one has come to attend. Why don't we just forget that SYRIZA is SYRIZA, not only on the Left, but also on the Ecology. The SYRIZA Epoch Green Members who are in the debate on the Attica disaster? Residents! All their Minister, Mr. Tsironis, said is that it was the fault of capitalism, because if we didn't have capitalism, we wouldn't extract oil and if we didn't extract oil, we wouldn't sell the Greek oil, he wouldn't be loading the ship and he wouldn't sink. This is the only statement the SYRIZA Minister of Ecologist has made. You're such hypocrites! And all of you, the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, watch with your eyes Mr. Kurubl in the video say the return from what you said, Mr. Dritsa, a week later. Kurublis in the video is confusing Drica and you don't even have the courage to criticize him. Do you know why? Because you realize that if one falls, one may start to "drink the sweater" and you play your chair for nothing. That's the truth. And destroy Attica and die the fish and burn the forests and make them all private, as long as you are MPs! You've been so ideologists on the left for so many years! The only good thing Tsipras did: he showed the Greek society who you are! It's the only good thing this man did in Greece! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u208	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u209	Here, the Minister has the floor for staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u210	I'll say two, three thoughts. They'll feed the bones of the late Karamanlis how he turned this party into Goebbels' enthusiasts. There he became the party of Constantine Karamanlis. Mr President, Mr Giannis Diamandidis' decision has been abolished to serve specific interests. That was the truth. Whoever wants to make Mr. Georgian's decision. It is a commemoration of what happened last day at the Ministry - the Ministry's players know that - to make this decision. It repealed the decision leading to transparency in order to serve specific interests. Mr. Georgiades, when you're addressing me, you'll be careful, because society knows you, too, knows me. I, when you were a supporter of the extreme right-wing organizations, was persecuted by Law 40000 "a bit of tediousism". So we have a different route, different course. Nor did I, Mr Georgiadis, sign the German company for the 10 million and send texts to Greece in English. But let the Greek people know that you signed the Greek Minister's texts to come to English. That's who you are, so the Greek people know. And you dare address me!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u211	Please, please, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u212	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u213	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u214	Mr. Georgiadis, he has asked for the floor on personal grounds, and Mr. Philis and Mr. Dritsas. We'll go in a row. Mr. Philie, what's your staff up to?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u215	He mentioned my name.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u216	He referred to your name, but explain, please, in one minute's time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u217	Mr President, I am compelled to speak because a debate that is of great interest to the people of Attica, but also to the citizens of Greece, because it concerns the great, the expensive one, one would say that the environment is a right, through personal reports and attacks, to not have the value we have all expected, to investigate the problem, to seek solutions because of the exchange of personal arguments. And I'm afraid that disorients us. SYRIZA does not seek a certificate of environmental consistency from Mr. Georgiadis. That would be a comedian. They are our struggles, our presence and our openness when matters arise. And what we do today - and we do yesterday, we will do it tomorrow - is to look at all the levels of responsibility so that these problems do not arise again. That is what I want to say, and I am returning everything else.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Dritsa has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, Mr President. It's obvious the staff caused by Mr. Georgiadis. But allow me to say by the way, because it matters, that it is not possible to create impressions. Colleagues, belonging to the Greens and Members of the SYRIZA, were the day before yesterday when they could speak at the meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and were given the floor, were placed and spoken. Today the timely question procedure does not provide for Members to participate and take the floor. Therefore, for their own reasons - they have other options - they are not here today. Don't make any impressions. I don't want to make personal controversy. I have tabled an item, the logbook of the EMSA ship, the European Maritime Safety Agency, to show that the ship's log is on the date of 13 September, namely that it is then released and complete the process, the commitment it had from the company, from the ship 'PATTMOS', which was responsible for participating in the detergent effort in that case. Others are interpretations. The fact is that. To maximize the fact that the minister responsible does not have at that time - I do not know the fact and I do not know whether it happened or did not happen - I did not hear it - a clear picture of whether the signal was given by side or by the same vessel to be a finding, I would never have thought about it! Maybe I'm too stupid or too inappropriate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u220	It's clear, Mr. Dritsa. I think this has escaped Mr. Georgiades' report in your name.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u221	I would therefore like to say the following about the personal reference: Mr Georgiadis, in fact, when I took responsibility for the Ministry of Shipping, I informed you of the decision that abolished Diamandides regulation. This update was accompanied by numerous comments not only from the Ministry but also from outside. It was a decision that stumbled the Piraeus shipping market. I, too, have dealt with the possibility of changing it. However, your decision had now created data and so it was no longer a question of changing a decision, because a lot of things would have to be changed together. That is why we put forward another procedure, the equation of all classifications on the basis of European standards. And that is a story that has begun, it is under way and it will soon be legislated, because this has needed a very complicated process to regulate the individual issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u222	Thank you very much. Mr Georgiadis, you have asked for the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u223	I'll start from the last one to go to Mr. Kurubli. Minister, it's very simple. My decision broke a monopoly. If you were to disagree with a previous minister's decision, you could change it much faster than spending two and a half years.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u224	Will you vote for it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u225	If I could make a bad decision in ninety-nine days, not being able to change it in two and a half years is going a lot!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u226	Do I have to shut down business? Is that right? What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u227	Don't interrupt me. I repeat: my decision was correct, it broke a monopoly, and whenever you want to have a specific debate on this decision, very gladly! I am actually addressing Mr Kurubli, who has started to say now that he has been touched by English. In English, Mr Kurubli, Mr Tsipras also signed and in English the decisions of the World Health Organisation and Mr Tsipras will come. And I would remind you that you told the Greek people that you were taking me to the special court. Did you take me? Oh, no! Did you apologize for the slander? Oh, no! Did you apologize for the mud? Oh, no! Just so people know what kind of person you are! The brave political opponent stands up and says: "I hurt your honor and reputation, I did not have proper information, I apologise to you and we go further." And there I should like to say to you, Mr President-in-Office. But you insist on mud and that does not honor you!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u228	Where did you see her?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u229	I shall now go to the last, Mr President. I do not know about the laws of 'the kind of tentism'. I was born on November 6, 1972. I don't know what status you're confusing me with. However, I have nothing to do with what you have in mind. But I must admit that it makes me a very good impression - very good impression! - the pain of Mr. Kourublis and Mr. SYRIZA in general for the party established by Constantine Karamanlis. Mr. Kurublis, I knew you were with Andreas Papandreou. You found Karamanlis from morning till night. Now all of a sudden, the pain for Constantine Karamanlis has taken place? So much love for the New Democracy, Mr. Friend, and do you mind being me in the New Democracy? Can't you find, Mr. Kurubli, any arguments of the intention to tell us? Because Mr. Dritsa has very kindly covered you with the mild tone he's got. But I didn't say what Mr. Drizzas says. I didn't say the major was that he said the signal came from the same ship while he had come from another ship.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u230	But you made it a flag!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u231	Of course that's not the big one! Listen, Mr. Dritsa, what's the big deal? It is a major disaster of national importance one week later to prove that the Minister responsible has no idea what happens to him. That's great! Because if he doesn't know the lasson, which is where the signal left, he obviously doesn't know the whole thing. And that's why Attica's been screwing up, and that's why Attica's been crying for many years! That's what I told you. And those who question it...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u232	That is an arbitrary conclusion. It's not a fact.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u233	No, Mr. Dritsa!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u234	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u235	Look at the video where Mr. Kourublis says - and insists - that the signal left the ship. It's posted online. It was on Mr. George's Saturday show. And I repeat, it was known at the Ministry, because at the same time the State Secretary was telling him the exact same backwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u236	Mr. Georgiade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u237	So you can't reach out to each other either. Don't cover him any more. It's a disgrace, really! Don't cover him any more! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u238	Thank you, Mr. Georgiadis. On behalf of the Government, the Deputy Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Mr. Nektarios Santorinios, has spoken about tritology, to close today's session.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u239	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to calm down the spirits, I would like to return to what society needs to learn today. I want to talk to her, too. And I would like to address society, because it sees the problem, it is facing the problem, and not some who are sterile in opposition wanting to raise the tone. What is true is that from the very beginning the Port Corps, the forces of society, have been present on every sea, on every coast where the depollution process is being attempted. There is also the whole of the anti-pollution companies in Greece that operate. And every day they are strengthened by new means. And you see we've mobilized everyone in this direction. From the first moment all available floating means were there. In particular, on 10 September - the shipwreck day - three vessels of the port and eleven of the contractor. On September 11th, three of the port and fourteen of the contractor. On September 12, five of the port and seventeen of the contractor. On September 13, six of the port and sixteen of the contractor. It doesn't make any sense from there, and I'll go on. Every day all port ships are available, as well as all companies that can help in this story. At the same time, as you know, a coordinating body operates daily, which is responsible for assessing the actions being taken on the current day and for planning the next day. And because I live this coordination body on the inside and live and the difficulties we have every day, I can say that for the first time in a similar incident, it has worked such a way of organising forces. For the first time, top officials of the Port Corps have been charged with areas of responsibility and they oversee businesses themselves. And, believe me, they really do it with very great zeal. For the first time in the organisation of actions, representatives of both the 1st and 2nd degrees of self-government are actively involved. And I say this because it has been heard that the region is missing. Every day, at least two vice-presidents are in the coordinating body. For the first time, everyone who experiences the problem, those who are from morning to night in the field and don't just walk around and walk around, are on the same table every day and discuss the operational needs of each area. All this has never happened before, ladies and gentlemen. I'm not saying it. It appeared from what the mayors have said in committee. I think they said it clearly. It also seems from those who attempt, who tell me daily. This management is an unprecedented event that unites the entities, does not allow the division of forces and results. And because we have to say what is happening today, I tell you that at the moment there is a significant advance. The result is constantly improving. Nearly all the oiles at sea have been removed. The problem insists a little on a Glyfada beach and on the Egyptian Group. We believe that it is possible today to complete the whole, while the first stage was cleared on most shores and rocks. Because I have been asked by Mr Screka - if I am not mistaken - on rocks, what we must say is that a deforestation plan is submitted by the contracting company, we will approve it in cooperation with the municipalities and move on with the total, the final depollution plan. However, the first steps have given serious results. And for his reason true and for his story, I'll testify a USB stick with photos from yesterday. [[At this point the Deputy Minister of State, Mr Nektarios Santorinios, presents for the Minutes the above USB stick, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, is everything okay? It's the question society's doing. You do it yourself. In this question, when a shipwreck has been made, when oil has been spilled into the sea, it is obviously not all right. The question is: have things been done properly too? Let us see comparatively a few things, so that we also have the picture of what happened in the past in corresponding crises and what happened now. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Mr President, you will give me some time, since I am the last speaker. So let's go to the shipwreck of "Agia ZONI II". Within two hours of the sinking of the ship, the dam's plumbing process began and in five hours it was completed. The waterproofing was completed after two days after the sinking. EURROBULKER X truck: A dead one in 2000 in South Evik at 10.30 in the morning. The regions were affected: Eretria, Lefkandi, Barnavas Attiki, Apili, Delissi, Halkouchi, Scala Oropo and Markopoulos. I won't mention the rest. A total length of twenty-four kilometers of insult. Five hundred cubic meters of oil fell at sea. Response time of authorities: seven hours. I'm reporting it to make comparisons. For the record, I make the relevant decision of the Ministry of Shipping about the shipwreck and articles of the time. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of State, Mr Nektarios Santorinios, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Width SLOPS 1 separator: One dead. There was a fire and it went down on 15-6-2000. Pollution was caused in Kynosoura, Perama, Keracini, Buliagmeni, Aegina, Frettyda. Until Epidaurus, this pollution has arrived. A total of six hundred cubic metres of hazardous waste were leaked. The charge decision states that the floating dams around the ship have been considerably delayed. I am also making this decision on the Minutes. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of State, Mr Nektarios Santorinios, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] SEA DIAMOND cruise ship: Two missing persons. It was submerged on 6-4-2007. He'd hired the day before. The first contaminant ship arrived 12 hours later. In the case of "Agia ZONI II" it arrived one hour and twenty minutes later. The clearing of the Caldera coastline was completed four months later. The first return plan, do you know when it was submitted? It has already been submitted. A year later. Because we are talking about delays and about having the picture of what has happened, I also make this decision. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of State, Mr Nektarios Santorinios, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And the “ALFA 1” tanker, which was also mentioned by the President of the Officer's Response yesterday, was submerged in 2012 at 9.45 ́. The regions were affected: Elefsina, Great Pecos, Megarra, Aspropyrgos, Salamis, on the coast of the Navy and in Batsi, Salamis. Four hundred cubic metres were convened and the ship was sealed seven days later. "GENERAL ZONI II" was sealed two days later. I am also making this decision. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of State, Mr Nektarios Santorinios, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] After seeing the elements of the previous shipwrecks, which have caused pollution, which are available to everyone, I am also entitled to ask when a maritime mechanism has been reactivated so quickly. And I asked you last time: When was EMSA's famous ship reenacted? Never! Ladies and gentlemen, Greece is a maritime country. Most of Greece's buses are at the sea. We have many islands in need, and these - the products, the fuel - are covered by ships. Our islands need shipping to continue to exist. It is therefore a great political mistake from an accident to condemn the Greek shipping and the Port Authority. The Greek shipping, the Port Corps and society expect you to stand responsible and not invest in the disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. The debate under number 36/25/14-9-2017 was completed on the ecological disaster in Saronic. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-22-S1-commons.u241	With the consent of the House at 15.05 p.m., the sitting for the next Monday, September 25, 2017, at 11.00 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: "Convergence and decision-making, in accordance with Articles 68(2) of the Constitution and 144 et seq. the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, on the proposal put forward by the Chief of Staff and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the Members of his party, on the establishment of a committee of inquiry into the involvement of the Minister of National Defence Mr Panos Kammenos and other officials and officials in an pending judicial case, in accordance with the special agenda distributed.
