ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Monday 6 February 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 412/30-1-2017 by MP Kilkis of the New Democracy Mr Georgios Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights about the immediate need to relocate the Kilkis Peace Court. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No. 423/31-1-2017 of the Greek People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Antonio Gregos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, concerning the "prison of the name "Macedonia" to sports organisations. 3. The Question No 397/27-1-2017 by MP Serres of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.MAR. Michael Jeleighis to the Minister of the Interior, concerning measures to be taken for the Subordinated Police Directorate of Serres Prefecture. 4. The question by number 428/31-1-2017 of the Greek Communist Party MEP, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, concerning the immediate recruitment of fixed-term contractors (IDHO) - the guardians of museums and archaeological sites with permanent and stable working status. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 413/30-1-2017 by MP Arta, New Democracy, George Stylios, to the Minister of Health, concerning the non-payment of cleanliness staff from the General Hospital of Arta. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 422/31-1-2017 of the Member of the Messinia of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Dimitrios Koukoutsis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the "discontinuation of the suspension of forest maps". 3. The question by No. 403/30-1-2017, by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of National Defence, concerning the "dismantling of European funding - inappropriate feeding of refugees". 4. Under number 429/31-1-2017, a topical question by Piraeus II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Diamantos Manolakos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy concerning "government responsibilities since the suspension of forest maps". 5. The Question No 378/23-1-2017 by MP II Athens, New Democracy, Anna Karamanlis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, about the temporary board of directors in Greek football. 6. The 319/9-1-2017 topical question by MP Evros of New Democracy, Anastasios State, to the Minister of the Interior, concerning the deterioration - abolition of the Tychro Border Guard Department in the Prefecture of Evros. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 389/24-1-2017 by MP Aitolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Moraitis to the Minister of Health on the payment of workers cleaners to the services of the General Hospital of Artas. 8. The question by No. 387/24-1-2017, by MEP B' Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panagiotarou to the Minister of Finance, concerning the "legislative arrangement for extending approved expenses beyond hospitals". 9. The Question No 352/16-1-2017 by MP Evia of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Michou to the Minister of the Interior, on "exploiting thorough research into the extensive fires in Chios, Evia and Thassos". 10. The Question No 411/30-1-2017 by MP Argolidas, New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Andrianos, Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the need for direct compensation for olive growers and producers of mandarin’s variety ‘clementine’ in Argolida. 11. The Question No 358/17-1-2017 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, concerning measures to be taken on the disasters in agricultural crops in areas of Crete due to snowfall and ice. 12. The Question No 351/16-1-2017 by MP Messinia of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Dimitrios Koukoutsis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the abolition of the Kalamata Olive PDO. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 91/5-10-2016 of the First Vice President of the Parliament and MP of Athens, New Democracy, Nikita Kaklamani, to the Minister of Migration Policy, concerning the program for the rental of apartments in refugees from the Athens Development and Tourism View Society (ETA). 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 8/3-10-2016 by the Independent MEP Mr. Efstathiou (Stathhi) Panagoulis to the Minister of the Interior about "falcons and chemicals that the government teaches us what democracy means". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The second question, under number 421/31-1-2017, of the second question of the Athens MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panagiotarou to the Minister of the Interior, on "Anotheral action by Turkish agents and their representatives in Thrace" will not be discussed due to the absence of the Deputy Minister, Mr. Toska, abroad. The following questions will also not be discussed because of the impediment of the competent ministers and will be redefined for discussion: The third, with number 420/31-1-2017, is a timely question for the first cycle of the MP Magnesia of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Panagiotis Iliopoulou to the Minister of Finance, on ‘due public debts to private individuals’. Mr. Juliarakis has miserable obligations. The fourth under number 414/30-1-2017 topical question of the first cycle of the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance, on the information about the stage of the process of implementing the investment at the former airport of Greece. Mr. Eukleidis Tsakalots has a workload. The first under number 411/30-1-2017, a topical question from the New Democracy MP Argolidas, Ioannis Andrianos, Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the need for direct compensation for olive growers and producers of mandarins of a variety of ‘clementine’ in Argolida. Mr. Apostolos is outside Athens. The third, with number 415/31-1-2017, a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARK KEgeroglou Vassiliou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the postponement of the notices of the Rural Development Programme. This question is also addressed to Mr Apostle. The eighth Question No 358/17-1-2017 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on measures for the destruction of agricultural crops in areas of Crete due to snowfall and frost, will not be discussed due to the absence of Mr Apostle outside Athens. The ninth under number 351/16-1-2017, a topical question by the Member of the Messinia of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Dimitrios Koukoutsis, Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the abolition of the Kalamata Olive PDO, will not be discussed due to the absence of Mr. Apostolos outside Athens. The tenth under number 348/16-1-2017 topical question from the MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARMAR Mr.Ioannis Manatis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the resumption of the extension of the plan for the management of vegetarian seas that directly risks the viability of the Greek seas, will not be discussed due to the absence of Mr. Apostolos outside Athens. The fourth under number 427/31-1-2017 topical question by MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Stavros Tassos to the Minister of Health regarding the inclusion of the Oncology - Haematological Unit of Daily Hospital in the Organization of the Mytilini Hospital will not be discussed due to a workload of the Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Polakis. The sixth question under number 390/24-1-2017 of the Independent MEP, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Health, concerning the reduction of expenditure in special education - "therapy", will not be discussed due to a workload of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Polakis. The seventh question, with number 344/16-1-2017, is a topical question of the second Athens Parliamentary of the New Democracy, Mrs. Catherine Papakostas - Ironropoulou, to the Minister of Health, concerning the discontent of citizens with the EEAY and the Public Health Care, will not be discussed due to a workload of the Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Polakis. Also, the 11th question under number 328/10-1-2017 of MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Research and Religious Education, concerning the education of applicants, will not be discussed due to a workload of Minister Gavroglou. The fifth, under number 416/31-1-2017, topical question by the Independent MEP, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the beer case and if there are a jury in the Competition Committee, will not be discussed due to a workload of the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights. Four questions will therefore be discussed in the order in which they are written. I would like to ask the President-in-Office whether he would like to take this opportunity to express his gratitude for the work he has done and for the work he has done. There is also written confirmation of the reasons for the absence of the Ministers by the Secretary of Government.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u3	Here, Mr Constantinople, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, Minister Tsakalotos is used to come after two, three months for every question concerning the great investment of the Greek. I think that you, too, have asked a similar question. But there is, at the same time, a text with signatures, at the initiative of the Democratic Incorporation, from the New Democracy, the Association of Centres and the Potami to convene the relevant committees on the Greek issue again. Unfortunately, this has not happened either for two and a half months. It is not possible for the Minister to tell us that the co-legislative ministers are working for the great work of investing the Greek and Mr Stathakis to declare to Parliament that he is unresponsible for the environmental impact study. Mr President, one of the officials - something the government is now discussing and writing everywhere - of the Forestry Office is probably stopping, with the help and tolerance of the government, an investment of 8 billion euros. I would ask you, firstly, to pass on to Mr Voutsi first of all to respect the signatures of the Members of the three committees so that they may be convened immediately. Secondly, at some point Mr Chakalotos must tell us and know that we are going to ask a question and he will come after three months to answer it. We need to know when Mr Tsakalotos is coming to reply to the House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u5	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u6	Mr. Kegeroglu, I mentioned to you that Mr. Apostolos is outside Athens. It is located in Thessaloniki. That's confirmed. We all saw it on TV. Do not now have a debate on something that is proven. Mr. Constantinople said another thing, which I probably endorse.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u7	It is not only Mr Apostle, it is other ministers who do not respect parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u8	I'm talking about the question you had today.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u9	Yesterday I had a question to Mr. Spirtzi and he was back in Thessaloniki. Today is Mr. Apostle. Every day there may be jobs, I recognize it, but there is no one-faced political representation in every ministry. There is Minister, Deputy Minister and State Secretary. But we see that they do not respect parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u10	Of course, you're right. You take part in the Conference of Presidents and you may raise this matter. I do not know whether you are taking part in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the first part, which is now being reviewed. It must also be put there to see what is going to happen with this story, because there is indeed a matter. I now inform the Services that Mr. Apostle has informed and apologized. On Monday he will be here and among the other questions he will answer, it will be yours too. We move forward with the first under number 419/31-1-2017, a timely question for the first cycle of the MP Drama of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Christos Karagiannides, Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the action of the "Greek Assembly" and founder of Artemis Sora. Mr. Karayannides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. From the Immortality of Eagleo, the Kamater's water to Artemis Sorra is established and established that there will always be easy people. The latter, however, has a qualitative difference. This gentleman, this fraudster better, has also made a political move. This would have an interest, even in political terms, if it were not an extreme racist, vulgar fascist and not also economic people who are convinced not to pay tax, banks or insurance funds, by having them sign a text of twelve pages and by taking 33 euros in each case, namely 100 euros in total, if you had three debts and if you did not make a deception industry in the world in that sense. I think the state - not the government - may have delayed all these years, seeing this phenomenon gigantic, seeing through the Internet statements of this man who don't even touch nonsense, overcoming it, and yet there are people willing to follow it. The control procedures at least should be initiated and the organization it has set up and the finances of this organization, but also of itself. Because a man who says he has two trillion dollars and at the same time makes a tax declaration of 20,000 euros, something wrong. In fact, when the question is asked by a journalist, Mr Schroyter, in the interview we saw last week - his answer is that he will get beaten up by slaps and kicks. In other words, in his interview with the imposter Artemis Souras, his answer is violence, and unfortunately we lived it some time ago when his coward murdered a woman member of this political movement. So because this story has been far out of hand and has gone through graphics in danger, we must have a coherent and coordinated response to this phenomenon of the fraudster Artemis Sourras.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u12	Before giving the floor to the Minister, for reasons of parliamentary order, and regardless of what the opinion of each of us is, colleagues who make designations take responsibility for what they say. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to stress that I fully agree with the content of the question and with what Mr Karayannides said earlier. First and foremost, I am impressed by the extreme racist speech of this organization and this gentleman. It is an extreme racist reason, which we have recently seen in addressing against fellow humans, people with special needs, and especially against our Paralympics, which I do not want to bring back to the Chamber of Parliament, who are escaping not from the limits of decency - this is rather a luxury for this gentleman - but from any limit of human behaviour at the expense of the Paralympics, that is, our fellow people who set an example of agonist and ethos in the Greek society. This must reflect on the whole of Greek society, especially those who follow it at the moment. Because I cannot believe that of all the people who follow him, most people, not almost everyone, are not members of this society that celebrated the successes of our Paralympics in the last Paralympic. I would like to say, therefore, to inform you, Mr President, that four criminal proceedings have been established at this time, in person, by the responsible prosecutor who has been charged with them. They are at the stage of the preliminary examination. An appeal has also been brought by the prosecutor of the Ice Arrow against a judgment of the 8th Chamber of Athens, in which intervening judgments have been made, the decision said, that he does possess a proxy and that he manages a fund of USD 600 million. These intervening crises are a judicial decision, which this gentleman was involved in by saying that Greek justice recognizes that he is the manager of this sum of money. So here I would like to say: as soon as I have heard of the existence of this decision, I have asked for the decision to be notified to my office and the next day I have sent it to the prosecutor of the Ice Bay to do what has happened. The Government's initiative was to pass this decision on to the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay and because of this notification and the action it took on 5 January, if I remember correctly, the appeal has now been brought and I hope that this decision will be annulled. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I see that I have spent the year, Mr President, simply to conclude with regard to the criminal and all that noise has happened. I would therefore like to say, Mr President, that the government, as soon as it has taken note of this decision, has acted and there are already results. I am impressed, however, that this decision, which also concerned a major member of the New Democracy and today's Opposition Officer, issued in 2013, did not deal either with the then government party, New Democracy, nor with the Justice Minister, who had an obligation to do what I did within twelve hours. For two years there has been this decision and no government official has taken the initiative to make it self-evident, to notify it, as I have done, to the prosecutor of the Ice Bay to become legal. I say this, Mr President, because, after what had to be done by the government, the New Democracy issued a communication in which the government for delays. We did it in 12 hours. Two years' government the New Democracy and three in total did not understand what was happening and it did not understand what consequences this unacceptable judicial decision had for the Greek society.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u14	Mr Karayannides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u15	In addition to the acts that the Minister has detailed to us in terms of the Ministry of Justice, we must also look at other issues and economic issues, but above all social issues. At some point society cannot continue to be a victim and must face such phenomena on political but also rational terms. So when the American Ministry of Finance sends an official document saying that these debt instruments are forged, when the Bank of Greece informs us that these debt instruments are forged, when no one can justify such a size of money and yet there are thousands of our fellow citizens who believe these fairy tales, we have a problem. In fact, let me say the other one. When it is cultivated for many years in our three-year history that we are a donor nation, that as a generation, as a nation, as a national team we are unique in the world, then we give fertile ground to people like Sora to say in videos, and watch the world underneath without asking him a question, that Alexander the Great bends time and can win eleven battles at the same time. This has to do with a long story about our education in the last 100 years and the uploading of Greek identity to heights unthinkable, so that every Alban crook can show up and tell his story. So we also have to deal with myths, but also with those who raise myths. And justice and society and political forces in such phenomena must be coordinated and tackled in a coordinated manner. We cannot, therefore, analyse what Soras is and who is fond of him - if there is such a thing - but how we will deal with his own lies, his own frauds and how we will soon end with such stories. To close, there's too much fertile ground to be convinced of anything. If the right word does not do so - that is what justice is doing up to now and should have done so in the past - we will have such results. And these results - I say again - have been seen in the past. But we have seen them in the past to a degree of deception of ordinary people to take their money away. Here Artemis Sourras has acquired a political background and there are many dangerous people like Artemis Sourras. I also feel sorry for myself when I see that he expresses such racist views about people with disabilities, that the whole society does not rise up to take him with the stones. These expressions in the air cannot be heard, that these people are not human beings, that they are defaming the Olympic Games and should not even live. So in this insult, the answer cannot be just a court. It must also be social. It must be social and coordinated in order to eliminate this story once and for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u16	Would you like to fill in something, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u17	Yes, I would like to supplement, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u18	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u19	Thank you. My fellow Member in his dentistry raised two issues: the reaction of society and the reaction of justice. I was going to talk to both of them. So, as far as the first is concerned, I would like to reflect on this and I would like to hear from those who follow Artemis Sorra today. This man, ladies and gentlemen, puts forward a claim that goes beyond teratology. Who's that? That he runs 600 billion dollars, with which he will pay the Greeks' public and private debt. Tell me what reasonable man - and I believe that everyone is reasonable people in this world, that is to say they have a reasonable percentage that allows them to realize that it is fraud in itself - he believes that he has $600 billion and will pay the public and private debt. And why doesn't he, since he has them and pretends to be the savior of the nation? But what he has to give more thought is this: Since he has these 600 billion dollars, why does he put these unfortunate people on and pay for subscriptions? In other words, none of those who ask them to give 30, 100, 200 euros "You have 600 billion dollars, my 100 euros are asking me to join the party, or to communicate an outlet to the tax office?" This stuff isn't projected by a person? How is it possible to follow this guy - because I cannot describe him otherwise - when these questions exist? But you also raised the question of justice. I think justice has done what it had to do. As Minister of State, I would like to tell you that justice must move much faster than it has done in this case and become the shield of society. Justice must not wait for monthly reports to move, when in front of our eyes, newspapers, televisions, this gentleman comes out and claims what he claims. The duty of the appropriate prosecutors is, of course, to intervene, at the same time to stop this phenomenon and to consolidate these behaviours. I would therefore like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen - and I am closing down with this - that justice is doing its job. But justice should in similar cases which have a wider social interest, protect citizens and not be treated in a bureaucratic way, that is to say, that they will be dealt with when a petition comes, in its turn, etc., but first and foremost. We think that steps have been taken and they will become even more serious. I would like to stress that the immediate response of the prosecutor of the Ice Bay to the transmission of the decision on my part and to the direct appeal procedure for what is being carried out in the decision of the 8th Chamber of Appeal of the Zakynthos, which I mentioned to you, is something that satisfys us. We are also satisfied with direct actions by the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay and the Corruption Prosecutor for the "NOVARTIS" case in progress. Incidentally, I mention this in Mr Karayannis's question today for information by the National Representation. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u20	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I announce that the Ministers for the Environment and Energy, Economic and Development, Foreign Affairs, Economic, Rural Development and Food, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights and the Deputy Minister for Environment and Energy tabled yesterday, 2-2-2017, a draft law: "Undoing the Agreement between the Hellenic Republic, the Republic of Albania, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and the European Commission for the Protection and Sustainable Development of the Prespecies Park area". It shall be referred to the committee responsible. I also have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Article 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 "Prime responsibility of the Ministers, as is the case in the 2-32017, firstly, criminal case law concerning the former Ministers for Rural Development and Food, etc. Constantinos Scandalides and Athanasios Tsataris, secondly, criminal proceedings concerning the Minister of Defence Mr Panagiotis Kammenos and thirdly, criminal proceedings concerning the Prime Minister and members of the Government, as well as former Prime Ministers. Finally, the Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: 'Amendment of the Code of the Organization of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other provisions'. We move to the second with number 410/30-1-2017 a top-level question from the Parliamentary Law of Attica, New Democracy, Georgios Vlachos, to the Minister of Migration Policy, Mr. Moussala, who will respond, on the financing of NGO actions, to the process of receiving and treating refugees and third-country nationals entering Greece. Mr Vlavo, you have the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is well known the events that have taken place in refugee camps in the previous period and which I think are not looking for honour in a civilised country, which even states determined to host refugees and immigrants. The recent deaths in hospitality centres, beyond grief, are giving rise to intense reflection, because it seems that European funds are going elsewhere and not to the purpose for which they are allocated, namely the decent living of thousands of refugees and especially of the young children who came to our country. That is why I call, Minister, for answers to issues relating both to the management of national and European resources. A prerequisite for the effectiveness of these funds is an honest management, in the context of respect for public money, as well as a proper hierarchy of the objectives through an integrated plan to address the refugee issue. After all, on the same subject, there are recent references to both the competent European Commission and other organisations, which support on a daily basis the way in which the funds are managed, leaving clear suspicions of lack of transparency. All of this adds to the papers on the involvement of various non-governmental organisations, accompanied by non-legislative practices, but also to the government in thousands of intakes on hot spots, which have also been admitted by government officials. To sum up, Minister, I would like to ask you: Is there a complete record of the non-governmental organisations operating in refugee to date? How many of them have finally been registered in the National Register of Greek and foreign non-governmental organisations? How far has this procedure gone? Those who have not been registered are financed by whom and by what amounts? What is the amount of resources and what sources, namely European money and Greek budget? Which bodies manage them? Who and when do they account for? Are the public money-sharing papers true through non-governmental organisations, as executives, hired, turned out to be not actually working? Who determines their pay, Minister? Are they really arrogant, according to the evidence that the light of publicity has been seen? These are as a protology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u22	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am coming back - and this is useful, because we will find out at some point - and I will say things that I have said several times in this House. First, listen to me, the well-known cases of sadness about the situation within camps, hot spots and hosting centers are the three incidents in Moria. And I and the President are doctors and we know exactly that the grief we face with is a little deeper than the grief of the rest of the people, because all his life a doctor is fighting with this thing. However, let me tell you that these three incidents are due to bad conditions, which since September we have been trying to build in Moria, Samos, and Chios. Those who did not allow better conditions to be created were some very important factors, such as mayors of local government, many members of your organisations, the New Democracy and the organisations of counter-population. I came from Moria yesterday. A solution was put in place. They broke under this grief, hoteliers. We got rooms. The works started. Today Mr. Mitsotakis is over there and will witness both the bad and the good things being done. We are proud that one million sixty-five thousand people we have seen in the last sixteen months when I am the Minister, we have dealt with them with dignity, we have dealt with them with them with humanity, within the context of the reality of the migration movement and the economic crisis of our country. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] The little kids you're sorry about go to school. The little ones go to school with their bags, with their teachers. We have small reactions in which the official position of the New Democracy is clearly opposed. But maybe someone should look for it a little better at the base. There are some people - I am not saying that this is a New Democracy line, for God's sake, otherwise - who most belong to this space than to other places. Therefore, we are proud of the small children who go to school. No country in the world has happened before their installation is arranged for children to go to school. Idone was licensed six months ago. Within six months they settled. For the islands you are responsible, gentlemen of the New Democracy, probably not at a high leadership level. But you have a responsibility. You didn't help to give the spaces. I hope it changes. I want to come to finance now. That's something coming and coming back. We've been through this. We've been through it before. There is a billion euro. They say: 'Abramopoulos says that, why do you say another?' Even so, the government says the same thing. The European Union has guaranteed - it has not given - a total of about one billion euros to Greece. This is the European Union's statement. We have told you several times how this money has been made available. It'll take a lot of time. We have the 'DG HOME', 350 million euros. The EUR 175 million was provided to the Greek authorities. They have been made fully transparent. You may agree to or do not agree to the disposition. Transparency in the money managed by the Greek Government is complete. Any disagreement on how to use them shall be legitimate. But transparency is full. The others were given to the High Commissioner, organizations. We have no possibility of intervention. Whatever the government was, it would not have been possible to intervene. You put them in the same money and blame the government. Nothing helps this thing. It's wrong. It's a mistake to deal with. The absorption rates of emergency funds are 60% - which is a huge proportion, the highest in Europe - and 30% has already been compromised, which means that in two or three months, we will be at 90%. One of the national programmes has a budget of EUR 294 million and 2% has been absorbed, because their possibilities of use were covered by the emergency programmes and we preferred to absorb the emergency. Right now, in the next few months, new programs are being submitted. The other has a budget - we are now talking about regular funds - EUR 214 million and 25% has already been absorbed. It is also the largest proportion in Europe. We'd rather absorb the emergency. We are now absorbing regulars. You know, because you've made government, how hard it is. They're eligible, it's bureaucracy. You need to change it from dogs to dogs, make it eat and both bodies agree. There's a good job, Mr. Haritsis does it. As you know, my ministry doesn't have the management. I think he'll be available himself to give you everything you want to explain.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u24	The rest in dentistry, Minister. Here you go, Mr Vlavo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u25	Mr President, first of all, the question I have tabled today focuses primarily on economic factors. Of course, when we talk about non-governmental organisations involved in the refugee problem, we will undoubtedly also have extensions and other issues. You told us that once again you would say the evidence again. Does it really not bother you, does it not go through your mind, when colleagues - and I imagine all the wings - come back and come back and ask you for information, that what you are giving is incomplete, is not complete, does it not cover us? I asked you if there was a record of non-governmental organizations. Good. Everything is published. How much money do they get and how do they be chosen? I didn't tell you about this money moving through the High Commissioner. I said about what is moving through the Greek Government and your Ministry. That is what I want you to make public, because the picture that exists in all of us - and I say it quite rightly - is that something is wrong. You've heard, I imagine, complaints from actors moving in the government area. Remember, it's about how they manage the money or have there been complaints. So when it is this climate, you cannot tell me that we have said it and said it before, because we obviously say nothing and we will say the same and the same until the finger reaches the wound and see who gets the money, why and what work they do. You will allow me to say that we have particular problems, of course, with non-governmental organisations in general. I have a bad experience of what the light has seen in previous years and their action, but in particular now, when you have been involved in the refugee and the young children who have told me that they are going to school - obviously, they are going to school - and you said so, and you said so anyway, that it is not the official position of the New Democracy. So hold the official position of the New Democracy, and not the individual opinions, which at the end of the day are like this, and perhaps tomorrow they will change. So we will not disagree on that. We will, however, disagree - and today the President of the New Democracy is touring there, to have a global picture of the problem - about the money that they are given, how they are distributed, to whom they are given and, ultimately, not only that they are being given, as you say, transparently, but what they are doing. Do they give a report? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like to end, Mr President, with what the Minister has started with. I did not want to raise it very much, but I stood by the death of the three refugees so very simply. I have a statement you're saying here: 'We're late. I hope that the deaths of immigrants will make us wiser." Do you not feel that the price for this wisdom is too heavy when it comes to human lives? I have the whole of your statement, which you have been telling me since September, 'all very well'. Why did it not happen, Minister, since September, and since you had money, how did you now convince the hotel owners? Because it is obviously an economic issue. If you have money, why didn't you do it earlier? I really feel, when so simple - I do not want to say cynically, if you want - you say that you have become wiser - because the other wiser people have not become, you have become rulers - because some people have been lost, that this is a big surprise. Does anyone become wise when people are lost? So, you knew something and you didn't? Isn't that what you feel like he's hitting you? Don't you feel that he's burdening you with responsibilities? I will not speak of political ethics. I will speak clearly about political responsibility. When you say "We knew", what do you mean? You're not in the Ministry to train, it's not to live the facts and on the basis of the facts we live to say that we were trained and became wiser just like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u26	That's it, Mr. Vlalo.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u27	I shall conclude, Mr President. So I would say that it needs on the part of the government and you personally with more responsibility for making the approach of this important problem a reality. But - I am closing, Mr President - I am coming back to economic data. We want transparency, we want clarity, we want publicity. Because whatever is covered today, I inform you that the moment will come when these things will come, anyway, in the light of publicity, they will be known. They can't be covered forever.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u28	Mr. Vlavo, please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u29	So what happens tomorrow, do it today. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u30	Here, Minister, you have the floor, with regard to time tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u31	Thank you very much, Mr President. I think, Mr President, that the way you responded did not become wiser. I'm trying to be a person who unites and doesn't break up. So listen to me!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u32	But you said you became wiser!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u33	Please! I didn't interrupt you!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u34	Mr. Vlao, please let the Minister reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u35	So I say that what changed is that the hotel owners retreated. And they did very well! I don't want to fight with them. I don't want to ask for anything else. Hoteliers belong to another party. With the chambers you must discuss, who have refused to give space.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u36	What do you say, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u37	Let me finish!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u38	But are you telling me that hotel owners belong to parties? Is that an answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u39	Mr. Vlao, you're an old parliamentarian. Good, you don't like the answer. But don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u40	But we involve political people who are not to blame, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u41	Mr. Vlao, don't interrupt. You don't like the answer. I don't like it either. But I'm not interrupting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u42	I say, then, that yes, we became wiser, for people have retreated into positions that have helped to lead to it. I'm glad that the New Democracy position for children is to go to school. And I hope it stays in this position and spread to those few who stop children from going to school. I am pleased that the New Democracy's position is to build enclosed areas on the islands. And I hope its members will follow her on the islands. Now I'm coming to the NGOs. Listen to me!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u43	But no one in New Democracy stops children from going to school! What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u44	Mr. Vlavo, please! Don't embarrass me!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u45	But, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u46	Excuse me, will you have a dialogue?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u47	But someone who's listening to us now...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u48	But you're a first elected MP and you don't know the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u49	I know the Rules of Procedure, Mr. President, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u50	All right, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u51	I don't understand the substance!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u52	Good! What can we do now? Are we going to impose on him what he's going to say?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u53	Excuse me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u54	Go on, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u55	So let's go to the NGOs. And that's it. You know very well - if you don't know, read - that the Greek Government's position was to give this money to the Greek Government, to the Greek state. The European Union's decision was to give DG ECHO. DG ECHO is a European Union fund that gives humanitarian aid. And it was the first time that he decided to deal with Greece, with Europe. I will tell you here how DG ECHO chooses - and not us! - how DG ECHO controls and not us! We have told this House, too many times in this House, that we have no possibility and no right. Controlling DG ECHO. You can easily enter DG ECHO and ask for whatever information you want. I will present to you today the ECHO procedures, which you could have found in the computer. [[At this point, Minister Ioannis Mousalas submits for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I conclude with the Register of Governmental Organisations, which did not exist in our country. We made it! At the same time as we had this wave of refugees and immigrants, we were building a basis that should have been delivered to the country many years ago. There's now! I'm filing the evidence of how it works, what it does, who we write, what we control. [[At this point, Minister Ioannis Mousalas submits for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] After a few months - I imagine not after Easter - it will be forbidden to work any non-governmental organization. We didn't find that, gentlemen. We had to fix it, because there was no such thing as hospitality. They didn't exist! We had to fix them. Therefore, in my view, it is a misuse of the word to move the finger for things that had already to exist in the country and we had to fix them in the midst of a crisis. No lack of transparency! If you blame the European Union for lack of transparency, tell the European Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u56	There were places where you abolished them!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u57	However, Minister, do not take an oath for all NGOs.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u58	No, I don't. Forgive me, Mr. Kaklamani...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u59	That's what Mr. Vlacho meant. He didn't blame you for opacity on a personal level.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u60	Listen to me, Mr. President. I don't swear for anyone I can't control...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u61	That's it! All right! That's right!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u62	...saying the legal mechanism doesn't allow me to check.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u63	Because you have answered me, as you know, for a well-known and great NGOs, which have already been referred to the prosecutor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u64	Mr President, I should like to end by this: I do not guarantee anything that I cannot control. I'm not taking responsibility for anything. I want to remind you...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u65	Good! Because that's the way it is. That's what Mr. Vlacho implied.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u66	I would like to remind you - and to close with this - that I have stated that, although we do not have the legal capacity to monitor, I have called on DG ECHO, for the organisations financed by it, because this is the first time that they have been working in Europe - and not in Africa - to publish every month the information they used financially and then. That's where we're together. I only guarantee what I can control, whether it is wrong or right. For the other part, I can't guarantee anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u67	Good, the question is done. I have an announcement to make to this House. The Ministers of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Home, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Economic, Health, Administrative Reconstruction, Culture and Sports, Maritime and Island Policy, Deputy Ministers of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Education, Research and Religious Affairs have today tabled 3-2-2017, a draft law on the subject of the State Certificate of Language, the National Library of Greece and other provisions. The above draft law has been classified by the Government as urgent. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. From reading I appreciate that in here it will be a lot of things beyond the National Library's Certificate of Language. This is what I can make as President-in-Office, because I am not convinced that it is the Ministry of Education, since it is all the government that signs it. We move on and, as we talked about education, we fall into the question that will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr Dimitrios Baxvanakis, Mr. It is a fifth, under number 426/31-1-2017, a top-level question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Deputy Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, about the students' study in maritime professional schools. Here, Mr. Delis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, we welcome the presence of the State Secretary in our question today, which we cannot say about the Minister of Education, who, for four whole weeks, insists that he refuses to answer a question from our party, the JRC, on the education of refugees. We are focusing today, Minister, on a problem that your government has created and concerns students, students of the ESDP. Until last summer, then, in July, the students of these naval studies, at the same time as their two-year practice on board the ship, with whom they traveled, were also entitled at the end of the six months and in September by oral and written examinations. They are the so-called "privately taught" or "privately taught" students, I don't know what the right thing is. It's a very sensible arrangement. After all, it is about people who practice the ship rather than the next quarter and the ships, you know, circulate in the oceans. It is a reasonable arrangement to ensure a reasonable time to complete their studies. A critical detail, Minister. The vast majority of these students are not so much in what we call "lessonsy age". They are professional seafarers, many of them, and familymen, who choose to attend these NSAs in order to improve their professional position. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall close, Mr President, shortly. So last summer, your Ministry, abolished this provision, the positive one, which existed, excluding the first class alone. You have forced them, Minister, to have two choices, which lead to the same negative result, or, if they choose to attend the NCAs, to be unemployed for as long as they lasted - and I repeat we talk about large people, familymen - or, if they choose to complete their practice on board, to delay their students for at least three years. It is linked to this one more action, another overlookation, if we can say so, of your Ministry, by the fact that the relevant book on the practice has not yet been given, called "Guided Ship Training", which is mandatory and prerequisite for the practical exercise. Thus, they cannot practice either those who would theoretically choose to practice on board the ship. Minister, we're not just asking you. We invite you, too, to withdraw this provision, to reintroduce the previous status, especially for this category of students, and to give immediately - yesterday, we would say - the book on the practical exercise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, too. Before I give the floor to the Deputy Minister, I would like to make it known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty-eight students and students and three teachers from the private high school "Merisi Raptou" Larissa. Welcome to Athens and the Greek Parliament. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, as you know, schooling in vocational schools leads to the acquisition of diplomas and diplomas and, as you know, school is compulsory. As we speak of professional high school, it also includes laboratory courses, which cannot be conducted without the physical presence of the students. This physical presence is necessary for students of all specialties and all areas in our professional high school. It is therefore unreasonable that students in only one sector or just in the maritime sector should be excluded from this obligation of physical presence. On the contrary, in Class I, which does not have any laboratory courses, the law enables some students to be regarded as privately taught or taught, as you quite rightly say, so we are talking about the present, but under the strict conditions laid down by law. In other words, we are talking about serious cases of illness, which require either hospital treatment or home hospitalisation. The 1996 Act, which introduced this possibility for pupils, especially in the maritime sector, to be classified as privately taught, is problematic, in our view, because it considers that schooling and laboratory follow-up are not mandatory, which, by the nature of these courses, leads us to conclusions that are unreasonable. The most important thing, however, which I think we all have to take into account, is that it makes a distinction between pupils and their different treatment, depending on the area they are studying. Also, the need for work does not think that it is only for students who are attending this sector. Need for work is probably the students of all areas and specialties and especially of students in professional high school, who, as you well know, come from the poorest strata in our society. For this reason, the possibility of pupils working at the same time, the law has provided for the operation of summer schools, if it is work day-to-day. If this is an afternoon’s work, these students can attend the early school. In our opinion, therefore, the provision introduced last July by Law 4403 in terms of equality and justice is correct. What we are doing now, with the bill that the President-in-Office read earlier, is that a transitional provision is introduced for students who were in the second grade last year and who were classified as privately trained, to be able to under the same regime, since they started this year's school year, the third grade, or, in the case of summer schools, and the next school year, the fourth grade, on the same terms. In our opinion, therefore, the provision introduced is correct and is equal treatment for all pupils, all sectors and all specialties. From this point of view, I think you should accept it as a fair one too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u71	Here, Mr. Delis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u72	We, Minister, told you that this provision should be generalised and not simply confined to those who are now in the second or third grades. In this way - you also recognise - you contradict what you said before, assuming that the earlier provision was negative and had to be repealed. First of all, your answer, Minister, is not that it does not satisfy us, it does not satisfy these students, the students. In fact, some of them are here today in the Chamber and are watching, with great anxiety about what is going to happen. You spoke about compulsory schooling and about the fact that we should not introduce discrimination. I do not want to mention the example of higher education, where there is the possibility of an examination, regardless of the student's course. I will say that - we have told you in our prototype - it concerns students who practice not by their homes or by the other neighborhood or by the next quarter to go to their homes at night. It's about students sailing in the oceans. Objectively, therefore, they should choose either the study or the practical course, which other students can combine in other specialities. In other words, this speciality requires a special one, so to speak, treatment. I can't understand why you're insisting on this obligability of study. You said about the lab lessons. Look - I do not know how much you know, although I think you know enough - about the state of the logistics infrastructure in technical training. Let me just say to you this: especially in this specialty, laboratories, apart from outdated laboratories, are also inappropriate, because these laboratories are not addressed to students who choose the maritime study sector, they are addressed to other specialities. I repeat: and so forth, they are both miserable and antiquated. And we ask: is there a better practice than the ship itself, when those students, in practice, will connect their knowledge to their practice? Anyway, we must continue by saying that by means of the provision you are insisting - and you must not insist, you must take it back to think again, and I imagine the students will organise it and claim it - you drive these people - and they are not just young people at age with families and children, and at a time when unemployment breaks bones in this naval industry - they can wait at least seven, eight, and it can be ten years to complete this whole cycle as you are voting for it and as you suggest it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u73	Finish it, Mr. Delia.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u74	In conclusion, I do not know what the objective of this provision is. It is clear that this provision also reduces public vocational training in general and in relation to the section of maritime education. This may be a food for private education rodents and shipowners who may stream the resource, since they are asking before all, and the government gives you everything they ask, the cheap naval potential and with no rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the "World Republic Workshop" educational programme organised by the Foundation of Parliament, nineteen students and students and a professor from the "HATZE" School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Secretary, I'll tell you within a minute, a story. I had a father who died at two, forty-eight years at the sea of a captain. In support of this - I do not take a position, because I understand your thinking that the bridge of the ship is not replaced by anything - when the schools of the Egyptians began to operate, etc. - because it used to be the school and with experience they took the grades - the first lieutenants went from Aspropyrgos. I remember, then, on a journey - I was a student at that time, he took me along so that I could not love the sea and not follow it - that he would take off the course with the 40th and the children the news from Aspropyrgos were trying with the instruments of the ship. They wanted alpha time for the new kids, alpha second my father with the sex. To him, the bridge is not replaced by a book. The bridge on the ship is a bridge. I'm sorry, I just got to mind the incident that I saw with my eyes. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u76	To continue with your proper remark, Mr President, I would add that also schooling is not replaced by practical practice.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u77	No, of course not.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u78	We're talking about schooling at a public school in secondary school. And if we accepted your proposal, Mr Delis, the regime that existed in the past twenty years, we would consider that public schooling could be done at a distance. This is a mistake, because this could easily be extended to all students and especially the students of professional high school you understand that it could not be studied remotely. There is also a misunderstanding. In order to obtain the graduation of the professional high school and the specialty certificate, no practical exercise and no maritime service are required. Students and students in this area can obtain their degrees and diplomas, as can students of all other sectors and specialties in just three years for daily PSAs and in just four years for PSAs. There is, in other words, no requirement on the part of the Ministry of Education for maritime service or practice. This is done after the degree has been obtained.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u79	That's what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u80	You referred to higher education. You will also know that in schools and departments that also require laboratory exercises or clinical trials, such as too many higher education departments, the physical presence of students and students is also compulsory and no absence of these laboratory courses is permitted. By implying that the practice necessary for certain specialities - not only for her, but for many more - can replace attendance and learning at school, I think that we are undermining the same public school procedure and turning school into a distance school. It's another thing. Finally, this is not a book. You know that, but he may have been implied for someone he doesn't know. This is not a book that is not given to students. It is a manual in which experience is recorded, day-to-day learning on board by the apprentice, under the supervision of the ship's officer and signed by the officer. It is, in other words, a record of what the student learned during the practical exercise. It's not about a book that's not given. When the student acquires the right to charter and practice, he is certainly also given this manual.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u81	We're done. A message, however, didn't come out. No one spoke of distance teaching or distance learning. The question is whether there could be some kind of facilitation, nothing else.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u82	If the Minister wanted to, he could.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u83	Okay, that's over. You got the answers. It will now be discussed, under number 2149/20-12-2016, by Mr Athanasios Davakis, Member of Parliament, Mr Athanasios Davakis, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the possibility of amending this provision (Article 12 of Law No.4387/2016) which particularly affects cases where the wife of the deceased does not work. The question will be answered by Mr Anastassios Petropoulos, at least as far as Question Time is concerned. Mr. Davakis, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I am pleased that the Minister is present in the Chamber, a presence which I would like to believe, I hope is likely to give a solution to a problem that now, after the vote on this law, has begun to show its painful results. I read the article 12 of Law No.4387, the famous Katorugalou law. ‘In the event of the death of a pensioner or an insured person who has completed the period of insurance required to retire on his own right or incapacity, the surviving spouse shall be entitled to a pension if he or she has completed the fifty-fifth year of his or her age at the time of death of the pensioner or the insured person. However, in the event that death occurs before the fifty-fifth year of the age of the other spouse is completed, a pension shall be paid to him for a period of three years. If the beneficiary completes the fifty-fifth year of age during a pension, it shall be interrupted by the completion of the three-year period and resumed in the sixty-seventh year’. Here, in other words, Mr Minister - and this is the subject of my question - is being restricted to the age of a widow who will, above all, receive a pension from her deceased husband. If he's under fifty-two, he'll only get 50% for three years and nothing after that, unless he has minor children. If it is from fifty-two to fifty-five it gets retired for three years and then they will give it 50% again - it has decreased from 70% - after sixty-seven. Having seen that the painful effects of this regulation are gradually beginning to appear, Mr President, since, at the moment we are talking about, there are many classes of people who are indiscriminately affected, especially in these critical ages, given the marginal social atmosphere, such as unemployment, such as the enormous economic dramatic conditions experienced by the Greek people. You know why I'm asking you, you know why I've asked this question and I'd like to have your position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u85	Laconian, as a genuine Lacon. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u86	And I'm more populous than Elios. The question has also been answered in the past.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u87	"Below the groove" though you do.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u88	However, neighbors with good olive production. We have answered this on several occasions. We were seriously affected during the negotiations. The question of pension cuts was raised in much tougher and more difficult terms. After a lot of discussion, the model in force in France for the level of pensions granted and for the ages considered as worthy of protection was chosen in relation to other workers receiving a pension, in accordance with the statutory provisions of the social security scheme. Mr Davakis, we have discussed this issue together. I also discussed it with the representatives of the Armed Forces, their federations and the Security Councils. And I must say that those people who put their lives above all else, who offer their lives for the defence of their homeland, have never, on the contrary, explicitly said that they do not want any discrimination in relation to what is applicable to other Greek citizens, the Greeks who are under the same provisions. And for them, the same goes for and they do not want any discrimination. However, 168 and 169 of 2007 rightly provide for the continued payment of pensions to the widows or widows who lost their husband, their partner because of the service. A pension will continue to be paid to those persons. We maintained this as a debt, not as a concession to these people. So what should be a reason for different treatment, not discrimination, fair treatment, we have taken it into account and kept it. Besides, I think that the husbands of the Armed Forces' officers - women I mean - now have the right and the opportunity to work compared to the old times, which - and you will know - to marry an officer a girl who wanted to marry, had to get permission and the service, that is to say, to consider whether she has any property, not to work, etc. These have been eliminated now. And anyway, there's too many people who work away from home, they're the sailors, as we talked before, and too many people. We must take care - and this is a need - that, as far as possible, people with such tasks be involved. This is within our care and I think we are taking care of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u89	Here, Mr. Davakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u90	Mr President, in order to avoid misunderstanding that I regard the officials of the Armed Forces who respect and love, I began my speech by saying that this measure, Minister, affects wage earners, cases of disabled spouses leaving and staying their wife, who has been paying attention to them for many years inhabited, alone and deserted by other people, such as farmers. It was not only about the strains of the Security and Armed Forces, which are a contagious case - I say again - this particular class of our fellow citizens. I read what Mrs Stavroula, Mr President, has written on the Internet: “I am fifty years old, I am thirty years married. I followed my husband to his transfers throughout Greece. My son is an adult and unemployed. I don't have any income. If, the non-genus, something happens, how am I supposed to live? Should widows be buried together with their men?’ This regulation of the state shows to the strains of the Armed Forces - which in their professional life, about thirty years, have to do with more than fifteen movements due to the transfer - that the state completely denounces their work, does not respect the man who will suddenly leave behind when they die, with the conditions of stress they experience and the officials of the Armed Forces and the Security Corps, that it ignores the specificity of their profession, because, I say, they have more than fifteen moves from villages to villages throughout Greece. These people, their husbands, Minister, who may have given up their careers, who may have had a scientific quality, or their profession to follow these people, how will they live with this treatment that the state reserves against these people? I will not talk about hypocrisy, which is going through the political leadership of the Ministry of National Defence, which has sent three responses to the Ministry of Finance, which are different from one another. Mr Kammenos' false sledges should have no place in this case. When it sends three different answers to the Treasury, not to you, which says that they must be dealt with in a different way, after "the service", "the service" etc. He is a member of the Government and had to have a certain position. It's tragic what's happening. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] At the moment with the challenges of the neighbour, with Mr Erdogan's behaviour, there is a hope for the preservation of our national independence and territorial integrity, the worthy of the Armed Forces, which is affected by the behaviour of the state towards their families and the man who will leave behind them, such as the widow, the woman who - I repeat - was their fellow believer in this long, painful, but upright and levantic life, which has lasted for more than thirty years.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u91	Please close, Mr. Davaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u92	Finally, Mr President, I am the last speaker. Please warmly, because I know you know the issues very well, don't treat them with the cold look of a technocrat. It concerns an important part of our fellow citizens and, in particular, the members of the Armed Forces. Make a move. Keep them a euro from their earnings. The contributions they've paid for so many years, what's going to happen? All of this compose an alpine picture of the state against these people. It's a warm request. I want you to see it again. Get an amendment. Don't answer me as you responded to your first position. Leave a window of hope to these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u93	I should like to say on behalf of the whole House that this place will honor the dead, the poor in favour of the countryside and we will not get permission from anyone as to how we honor them. To fill in what you said in the last placements. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, the President's view - as is now expressed by the Step forward in the representation of the Greek people - is a position which I do not think can be opposed and we must defend. Therefore - because I have also followed discussions on these issues of tension that the neighbouring country is trying to provoke - to avoid any debate that your position could open. I do not want to respond, because we must not deal with these issues with warm, but with a cold mood, at least cold, and not cold warfare. Mr. Davakis, if that were what you say, I wouldn't have been honored by the Federation of Armed Forces Officers and all the Security Branches who became Christmas Eves at the Officers' Club next door. And I was given this honour for the way I dealt with it, with the sensitivity that we had to look at all these issues to which you referred. I also had the opportunity to discuss in detail all the representatives of the Armed Forces from all the Houses. We support our efforts to continue to provide the basis behind the social security system for all, with the particularities that we really need to see in every case in the context of justice that we need to give. Because in the regulation we are doing with the law, we have different situations to deal with. It's known by Aristotle. The principle is still known that unequal things are handled unequally. You don't make the same provision for everyone. We have also taken care of this in the case of seafarers and officers and particular categories. There's this. And there is a lot of discussion going on in a way not responsible. I'm not telling this Chamber with you. I am talking about what is happening today on the country's national roads. And since the results of our system have come out of this morning, what contributions farmers have to make - not to say to others - you will allow me, Mr President, to say the following: Of the five hundred four thousand farmers who are called upon to make contributions, the four hundred thousand pay about 90% of the insured - 87 euros monthly instead of 113 euros paid before. That's a much smaller contribution. And only six hundred and twenty of the four hundred four thousand pay the high contribution. In other words, the comparison is overwhelming. However, for reasons of misinformation, farmers think that they are being slaughtered and on the streets. Because it is crucial that we cannot be responsible nationally, when threats of this kind arise from neighbouring states - particularly Turkey - and that we are nationally irresponsible, when it comes to the economy, for what we need to set up for our country that is in a difficult position in the whole of this clone, which we are threatened with - and for the economy - around us. We have to be responsible for everything. We have no room to say things that are unstable. I heard what you said. I think we have dealt with the sensitivity that we owed to the cases of the Armed Forces and the Security Corps. There's these in the law. We'll have a chance to explain it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u95	A solution needs to be found, Minister. It's hot.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u96	I said what I said. Keep the one I'm finishing with. To give the message from both you and the Civic Opposition to stop this situation on the national roads at the country's borders. It is unreasonable that farmers should say 'knowledge' and have more favourable regulations. That I cannot understand how we can deal with it unless we speak the language of the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u97	By recognizing that you are fully consistent with your parliamentary duties, I left you a little, despite the Rules of Procedure, to extend to another matter. There is also a representative of what you said. Thank you very much. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-03-S1-commons.u98	With the consent of the House at 11.26 hours the sitting for Monday, February 6, 2016, at 18.00, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: topical questions.
