ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-22-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 21-12-2017, the minutes of its Fourth Meeting, Thursday 21 December 2017, with regard to the vote on the whole draft law: "Training measures for persons exempted from the penalty due to mental or mental disturbances and other provisions"]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS Ladies and gentlemen, before we begin the debate on topical and urgent questions scheduled for today, I have the honour of announcing the following to the House: The third will not be discussed under number 584/8-12-2017, a top-level question by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister for Migration Policy, on the subject: "Great risks for the future of the refugee from the wrongly practised policy of the Ministry", due to the absence of the Minister responsible Mr Mousala abroad. Nor will the following three questions be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the honourable Members: The first under number 694/19-12/2017, the first question of the first cycle of the Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr Panagiotis (Panou) Skouriakou to the Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the subject: "No institutional framework for monitoring polling published by the PSE". The sixth question under number 626/13-12/2017 is the first question of the Greek Parliamentary I of the Union of Centres Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information on the subject: ‘Control of the validity of measurements of opinion’. The fifth under number 681/18-12/2017 is a top-level question for the first cycle of the Athens Parliamentary Second Independent Greeks Mr.Athanasios Papachristopoulos to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information on the subject: "Control for the validity of polling". Nor will it be discussed in Ministerial Counsellor's understanding, the second with number 628/15-12/2017, a topical question by the Independent MEP, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information on the subject: “Is 30% of State Advertising in the Region?” They will not be discussed because of an impediment to the relevant ministers: The first question with number 999/7-11-2017 question of the circle of petitions and questions by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMARKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKK Nikolaos - Sitia and St. Nikolaos - Ierapetra, it will not be discussed because of an impediment by the Minister of Economy, Alexandros Haritsis, because of unsettled obligations. The first, with number 5858-12-2017, topical question from the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odyssea Konstantinopoulos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the subject: "Financing from PPC S.A." the project to improve the road Pournarias - Kyri - Mygdalia, amounting to EUR 500.00, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister for the Environment and Energy Mr.Georgios Stathakis. There is a letter from the Government's Secretary confirming it. Ladies and gentlemen, the Member, Mrs Panayota Dritselli, is requesting a short-day absence abroad from 24 December 2017 to 5 January 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-22-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore approved the requested permission. The alleged person shall also request a short-day absence permit from abroad from 28 December to 2 January 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-22-S1-commons.u3	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now discuss the fourth question under number 620/11-12-2017 of the first cycle of the Athens MP Mr.Georgios Amyras to the Minister of Economy and Development on the subject: 'No one 'leasure' house in the hands of a banker'. Here, Mr. Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-22-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. The title of the question you heard: "No "league" house in the hands of a banker" was a slogan ADARTSYA, ladies Ministers, it was a slogan of SYRIZA, so I put it in the title of the timely question, to see your reactions first. I am glad you laughed at the title, because you are probably not taking what you were saying three years ago. May I remind you, then, that three years ago you had made this slogan, Minister: 'You? We inconvenience!" So how did you do it, and it's my first question, within the three years, you did it in "We Auctions! In the 'African you!'. That's a prisoner. However, Mr Minister, I was more concerned about the explanatory statement of yesterday's amendment to the self-declaration, auctions and seizures, which says that this legislation has been made to avoid the need for a new recapitalisation of banks. So I ask, Minister: are we still in the process of recapitalising the banks? Is the banks "red" again? And to avoid recapitulating, how many houses should be auctioned? My second question is: Are there in the programme for 2018 the auctions for forty thousand real estates, yes or no? Why does Mr Friend ask for the legislative amendment for horizontal protection of the first residence? Because, as he invoked, within the forty thousand properties to be auctioned, there are many first home families who do not have the income to support them, who have been poorly paid and found on the edge. And third question, Mr Minister, who are at last the poor payers, these strategic bad payers, who refuse to pay? Who are the weak? When will you set criteria? What kind of criteria? And how are you going to make this distinction so that we do not proceed, as you yourself refer to the explanatory statement of yesterday's amendment to the self-defense, to a possible new recapitalisation of the banks? Thanks and I'll be back.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-22-S1-commons.u5	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-22-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Amyras, you changed the question, I imagine. Because the question you have tabled is not what you have asked.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-22-S1-commons.u7	That's the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-22-S1-commons.u8	What you asked is completely different. What you're asking today concerns the Justice Department.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-22-S1-commons.u9	But don't you know how many houses will be auctioned?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-22-S1-commons.u10	You have your dentistry, Mr. Amyras. Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-22-S1-commons.u11	What I wanted to say, Mr Amyras, is that once again I have to repeat that the government has committed itself to protecting the first residence. This commitment is clear and concrete. No overcompensated household is in danger of losing his home. But the great ones are in danger. Those who took the loans, who did not have the opportunity or perhaps did not want to repay them. We are therefore talking about trying to disinform and distort reality with a view to politically hitting the government. But, above all, it creates huge insecurity among people who are in difficulties. This is the case, despite the constant and detailed disapprovals of the claims and the relevant publications by our Ministry and by the Ministry of Justice, which degrade one to one of these publications. The reality is that on the basis of the current legal framework, the first residence of highly indebted people's households of up to 280,000 euros is fully protected. More than 70% of this arrangement is covered. In addition, what I wanted to say about the second question you have asked in your question - rather than what you have done - is that in the next quarter we intend to bring to the vote provisions of the law on overdue households that, among other protective arrangements for debtors, will also include provisions to prevent the abuse of the law by strategic poor payers. In this context, as you know, the Prime Minister has asked the Union of Greek Banks to take out the drawers of big deal cases. With regard to your third question, again in this timely question, which is about the electronic auction platform, it is fully operational. It is open and accessible to everyone and has functioned unnecessarily in its first application. So what I want to say is that the government will continue to care for the weaker, not even hesitate to look biased in their favour and not using them as an alibi to protect the powerful. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-22-S1-commons.u12	Mr. Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-22-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you said that in a month from now - if I have heard correctly - you will be able to make a law for segregating malpractices from the weak. Will you give us a picture of what these separation criteria are?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-22-S1-commons.u14	I told you in a quarter.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-22-S1-commons.u15	I heard a month. In three months, even. A foretaste will give us what will be the main criteria? Who will be called a malicious payer, who will be called weak? Secondly, in order not to feel surprised about me and that whether or not first home auctions are being held, I am taking into account the well-known announcement made by the Dealers Federation just four or five days ago, saying that the first and main home auction was held on Wednesday 20 December 2017. It was the only familiar mother in dimensions with two minor children of thirteen and seven years old, with an annual taxable income of 14,720 euros, while the house that was omitted, based on HICPIA - is located in a village - and has an objective value of 91,510 euros. I will also present to you, Minister, under investigation as to whether only the first houses of more than EUR 300,000 are actually auctioned. Here we have from the auctions website that at the Pyrgos Peace Court a house worth 24,280 euros was auctioned, in Amphissa 45,000 euros, etc. If I don't get tired of you, I'll file the documents. You'll explain to me whether it was the first or the second or third home of a man who lost his home. [[At this point, the Member, George Amyras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Minister, you also said of the Prime Minister who called on the bankers to tell them to take out the great debtors of the banks, who are poorly paid. I would like to ask you: should the Prime Minister call on the administrations of the banks, which are, in any case, actually appointed by the Greek society, because they are recapitalisationed with money from Greek taxpayers to do their jobs? Should the Prime Minister accept to be on a table with bankers to tell them "do your job and even get those in the fort and chase those who have this money this year and go sink the entire banking structure"? Why don't these happen automatically? Isn't there any control over the banks? Is that what you're telling us? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-22-S1-commons.u16	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-22-S1-commons.u17	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Amyras, I'm not telling you that the Prime Minister had to do this. The Prime Minister meets with the Banks Union, as I am the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Justice, to show the government's commitment to protecting the first home. That's what we're interested in. What we are sure the banks will do is not put any first home in auction. These incidents, to which you referred, are not first residence. When the post came out, I called the banks and they told me it wasn't first home. What else can I tell you? What I would also like to say to you is that the poor payers cannot be hidden, because there is a separation between them and there is a legal framework, such as the exclusion of creditors from their allegedly general, permanent inability to pay them and, secondly, the duty of full and sincere statement of all kinds of income and assets, both of the poor payer himself, such as the debtor, and of his wife. Also, to the exception of the debtor that has transferred property the assets known within the last three years. So the poor payer can't avoid it and hide.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-22-S1-commons.u18	Do we know what percentage of poor payers are in red loans?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-22-S1-commons.u19	We don't know that. That's all the banks know. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-22-S1-commons.u20	Minister, since you're there, do you want to make a clarification? Because we often wonder - over and above, but I think it is useful - what it means when we say 'first residence'. One who has an apartment, owes it to Sepolis, but has inherited from his grandfather a house in the village, what does that mean? Because he has the little house in the village, the house in Sepolis, who owes it, is it a second home? Because if that is the case, if we have to change the name and say'master residence'. Because so, with "first residence" and a house in the village, there can be confusion, in the banks I mean, not in us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-22-S1-commons.u21	Mr President, this is an example we want to improve. But the first residence is considered the one declared in the tax declaration. We show where the first residence is.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-22-S1-commons.u22	So there's no problem and there's no problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-22-S1-commons.u23	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-22-S1-commons.u24	Yeah, good. We continue with our second question with number 699/19-12-2017, the first-round question of the Athens Parliamentary II of the New Democracy, Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the action to grant satellite receivers of white areas not covered by the digital signal. Mrs Asimakopoulou, you have the floor in relative comfort.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-22-S1-commons.u25	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Minister, good morning. First of all, let me assure you that at the holidays, if you see your friend, your best friend - I do not know what you have - Mr Vaxvanis, please tell him that no matter what he writes about me, I will not stop you from doing parliamentary scrutiny. This question we are debating today, Minister, has been tabled since September. It is based on a press release, which deals with how you decided after switching from analogue to terrestrial digital television to the areas that are not covered. As you know, we have 96.2% of the coverage rate, one of the highest in Europe, but we were also programmed through the Digital Convergence Programme to cover remote areas. You have chosen to do this - and I have criticised you in the past - by using the EMCDDA reserve. The work you have announced has a lower coverage rate and much higher costs. You have said that you will provide a voucher of EUR 100 to EUR 120 per household, so that you can obtain the receiver's satellite. It is heard - and according to this post - that, firstly, you are giving a coupon to more people than they deserve and, secondly, that you are obligating them to go through a particular network, of OTE or of FORTHNET, primarily of NOVA. This concerns the first phase and the fifteen thousand households of EUR 2 million. According to my calculations and what the report says, this is a waste of around 400,000 to 800,000 euros. The second phase is the big phase, i.e. it is EUR 15 million. If we continue with this waste ratio, there'll be very long discrepancies. That is why I would like you to help me understand, firstly, what measures this is taking. Thirdly, why are you using an external company, to which you pay 8 000 euros to control the project, while the EBRD could do so? Let's start with this and God has it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-22-S1-commons.u26	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-22-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. I should like to start by making a comment and fully condemning the bomb attack and explosion which took place at the Court of Appeal. I think that our democracy does not need self-determined judges or acts that may jeopardise the safety of citizens or workers in a public body.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-22-S1-commons.u28	And on behalf of the Bureau, therefore of the whole House, I endorse the comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-22-S1-commons.u29	Absolutely, Mr President. I want to go into the essence of the question now. The net cost of implementation is around 1.5 million. We have absolutely no overrun of costs. At the moment, around eight thousand applications have been approved, approved by April 24th. How have the regions been selected? The regions were selected because we based on the findings of the National Telecommunications Commission, which were notified to the Ministry's General Secretariat for Telecommunications, i.e. the independent authority made the measurements and told us which areas are not covered. I fear that you have a wording in your question, which does not understand or rather conceal a fundamental issue of conflict of interest. You tell us that DIGEA claims that these areas are covered and we poorly allow citizens to have coverage via a satellite signal. ‘DIGEA’ has every interest in claiming that these areas are covered. But when we travel and meet people, they tell us that they just can't watch TV. I sat down and asked my colleagues and they collected the questions which I have only accepted after the office of the Ministry of Digital Policy on these issues. So the questions, in which the complaints are recorded by parliamentarians by residents who cannot watch TV today have been gathered. They are forty questions, twelve of them from SYRIZA, nine from the New Democracy. There's a real problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-22-S1-commons.u30	And one of ours.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-22-S1-commons.u31	I'll tell you. It's more than one of yours. I think it's two. All the wings have done. So here we have a real problem. And the real problem is - and I would say leave population coverage a little as a measure of success - that there are four hundred thousand people who do not see television. That's not secondary. We can't say in general we did it. It is a problem, which is an extreme problem, because at the moment the state is fighting for new technologies, future technologies across Greece, to all Greek citizens. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I would like your tolerance for a moment. We realise that we must also fight backs, a battle to cover our backs, that is to say, a battle to ensure that all citizens have access to the mature technologies, that is, simple access to the television signal and to the Greek television product. We are therefore counting on the EBRD. You said there's a preference for providers. None at all! These may have become other times. Let me once again present in the minutes the relevant joint ministerial decision, which says that satellite operators can be beneficiaries of the project. It is the ultimate freedom of the beneficiary consumer, that is, the man who will take his coupon and go to the provider of his choice. [[At this point, the Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, Mr Nikolaos Pappas, presents for the minutes the abovementioned joint Ministerial Decision, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practices.]] A prerequisite for a company to be able to participate in the programme is that it can guarantee, of course, that it will give it a signal. Mr Amyras cannot go and say "Get me the coupons to get paid". He doesn't have a company that can give a satellite signal.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-22-S1-commons.u32	Still!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-22-S1-commons.u33	Yeah, we don't know if he wants to be a ruler too. I therefore think that there is no question of this. The programme is absolutely transparent. It's effective because there's a lot of response. We often ask ourselves why we did not go ahead with the programme that you planned. However, I will have the opportunity to come back to my dentistry. The program that you planned - and I am sorry to have to repeat - was designed in the leg. He was submitted on the last day of the election period, before the January 2015 elections, and he was sure to fall off schedules. An international competition only takes nine months to supply the equipment. When would you plan where exactly antennas will come in, etc.Huh? We are talking about a situation that would take more than a year and a half and would fall completely outside the programming period. So we will relocate a cost to national resources. It is not from Greek taxpayers' taxes the cost of this programme. It is one of the resources of the National Committee for Telecommunications and Posts. What does that mean? The ‘Korban’, which exists and is created by the fees and fines paid by the telecommunications providers. In any case, unfortunately, there was also the problem of the contract signed with 'DIGEA', which predicted that more than a hundred and fifty-six points, where by magic, unfortunately, there was a reduction of two hundred and seventy-sixteen - I do not remember exactly the number - which was required on the basis of the initial study, the remaining costs would be covered by local government bodies. Do we have that possibility? I would say to you, we have this moral power to say: 'We gave the network to a private person, do we need all Greek citizens to see, is it not an interest in the private person to develop it everywhere, because there is no commercial interest in some areas and where else you want to watch TV, to come local government to cover costs?' I think we cannot have second thoughts here and we should not make such choices. I'm reminiscing and coming back. The programme is fully transparent and successful so far. The resources from the EBRD are not charged to the Greek taxpayer. It's effective. And I would really like to begin a very serious dialogue, which has come to a conclusion in favour of the draft law that we will bring about universal coverage at the beginning of January in the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-22-S1-commons.u34	Mrs Asimakopoulou, you have the floor in your comfort.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-22-S1-commons.u35	Thank you very much, Mr President. I shall begin at the end of the position of the Minister. We've had this conversation before. First of all, we do not give you the title "Robin Hoods" of the earthly coverage of the mark. It is not just you, Minister, and your government is interested in watching the whole of Greece TV. We are also interested in this, and this demonstrates the fact that on the last day of our term of office the invitation to tender was signed, which was documented and planned and the preparation of which was done in a very short time. It's not stubborn. On the contrary, it shows that even at the last hour we wanted to solve a problem. It would be possible on the last day when a government has dealt with its future and the elections. On the contrary, we were dealing with solving a very important problem, which is exactly what you put in place, watching TV all over Greece. Secondly, you claim that this programme would not be 'out', it was not well planned. This program was absolutely ready and you came to do your KHS two years later. In other words, for two years you have not implemented this programme, for which someone has worked to leave you completely ready. You could, in other words, start implementing it on the first day of your taking up your duties and you would have plenty of time to do so and indeed to do so on Community funds. In other words, money should come to Greece outside of Greece on this matter. You chose not to do it because of ideoscopy. And not to be unfair, I'll say again that it wasn't in your ministry at the time. Mr. Spirjis made this choice. So you have come and covered it from the EMCDDA reserve. Let's go to your third argument: 'It's not Greek taxpayers' money. It's not like the ERT, I'm paying off my ERT bill. It's not like that. They are from fines that the committee collects. Right? So, there are no needs in the territory that we could cover with the EMCDDA reserve? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We tell you that you had to use the money from Community funds to cover the rest of the territory and that money after I wish we were here to talk about what to do if they had gone over. Minister, there's no money left in Greece today for anything and wherever they come from. Fourth. I am speaking to you about the effectiveness of the choices. Let us now leave the micropsies that each of us represents a certain interest. I don't care what DIGEA says about the cover. After all, DIGEA, under the contract, has a rate of cover that has achieved it. He has no interest in saying anything about the rest of the regions. Why would they care?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-22-S1-commons.u36	I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-22-S1-commons.u37	In any case, I asked you to give me the specific measurements, to understand how you decided where no television is seen, except for the Members' questions. Perhaps a small village has no coverage and the wider area has a cover. Then, when you even use the EMCDDA reserve money, this does not mean that you are excluded from the rules of transparency and sound management of public money. They're not your money or mine to do whatever we want. You must defend the public interest. That is why I ask you whether there are any competitions, if there are transparency procedures. So let me ask two more specific questions - and I thank you for your tolerance, Mr President - for the Minister's reply. In accordance with Decisions 824/2006 and 819/2016 of the EBRD Plenary Assembly, it has been entrusted to a private company to support the EBRD, for EUR 8000, to check the correct implementation of the project. I ask you again: why can't the EBT workshops do this? This work must not be done on the ground, should anyone really go to measure what is there and what is not there? And my last question. We have a month to discuss in Parliament about 'Hellas Sat', about the Space and all of these initiatives. Are there any satellite transmission solutions at least or no cost to the public, Minister? Because that's what you're defending in your bills now. Has there been some kind of study, for example, using the distribution circuit and the terrestrial digital signal, taking advantage of the BSS transponder public by Hellas Sat, since you say that Hellas Sat will bring us so much rewarding benefits? Have you seen this? And I say that because if this is the best option for supplementary coverage, why are we breaking down money which, yes, is public money after all? Because, I repeat, the EBRD reserve is public money.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-22-S1-commons.u38	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-22-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. We want to play 'Robin of the Forests' no more than we want to play 'Robin of the Forests'. But I think we will agree that if these resources have to meet a social need, this is one of the top ones. This is a fundamental right, in the era of new technologies, to make sure that all residents have access to the Greek television product. I am not telling you now about the nationally sensitive areas from which we started, from the Arquis, Agathonisi, Leipzig and Ormene on the tri-international ones. I am talking about areas which are, for example, Kalamata, Arcadia, Boeotia, Evia. Such areas have a signal deficit. I therefore think you are unfair to yourself if you come here and come to the debate on the argument that there are some other needs that we did not cover and we put this on top. It is a priority that all residents of the country be able to watch TV. And, unfortunately, with the contract that we inherited, the state contract with the 'DIGEA', which was about to do with the digital provider, if we were to choose to go through an antenna, - so I told you that it is a little not misleading, because it is quite accurate that it is 96.2% of the population coverage, you did not make a mistake there, but it does not give the image of whole regions, which are outside the equation, that is the problem - it would mean, apart from the delays, that all regional stations should be closed down. Because the cost of network development, if it were to be borne by DIGEA, because it is cost-based, it would have to raise prices four times. There wouldn't be a regional station. The regional stations know that. We've discussed this too many times. I therefore think that this is the best solution and a solution that is absolutely crystal and enables the consumer to choose. It's too clean and procedures. And I think it will be very effective and it will be developed in the rest of the world by spring and with satisfaction we will look at this programme and see it spread and succeed. But here I am very afraid that we have again an obligation to discuss a subject that relates to the success of the Samara government, which comes and returns. It's the TV success story. We are talking about the absolute immersion of ideas that private initiative can be sufficient when we talk about the development of large networks. Note what the private initiative and the state's submission to the interests of the private initiative have done: Develop the network where there is commercial interest and where there is no commercial interest, transfer the cost to the public, whether the citizens or the municipalities or I don't know exactly who else. That's the reality. And I want to invite you politically and ideologically to recognize this reality. Otherwise, we will go along with these top-level arguments in political life, which I think will show the Greek people exactly what happened over the past few years and what choices they can make from now on. And the Greek people can move forward optimisticly and not, as some people appreciate, such as Mr Stournaras, who has been placed to convince us that the only positive thing from his position in the administration of the central bank is the fact that he left the Treasury. For as long as it was, we lost about fifty thousand jobs. In any case, however, I think we have had the opportunity here to discuss an example of a policy which has a fingerprint and management. I'm surprised you came here and said you did well the last day before the elections you joined the ESDP. This really impresses me as an argument. And I think people can draw their conclusions. I close by saying that it is obvious that we will be tortured, but I am optimistic that the universal coverage programme in all the broadcasters in the country - we will leave the past aside - will be able to vote together for it and move on. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-22-S1-commons.u40	The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish good holidays to all my fellow Members, the employees of the Parliament, the women and men of the Greek Police who look after us and the ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament report. Even tell Mr Stournara, Minister, good holidays! And your complaints about Mr. Stournara to tell Mr. Draghi!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-22-S1-commons.u41	Happy holidays!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-22-S1-commons.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-22-S1-commons.u43	With the consent of the House at 10.41 p.m. the sitting on Monday, 8 January 2018 at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
