ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 13 January 2017, which reads as follows: A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 319/9-1-2017 topical question by MP Evros of New Democracy, Anastasios State, to the Minister of the Interior, concerning the deterioration - abolition of the Tychro Border Guard Department in the Prefecture of Evros. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 327/10-1-2017 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister of Economy and Development about the need for sustainable regulation of red housing loans. 3. The 328/10-1-2017 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, about the education of refugees. 4. The 325/9-1-2017 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Union of Centres Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, on the approval of a medium-term business plan for the Port Authority of Thessaloniki (OLTH). B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 320/9-1-2017 topical question by MP Florina of New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Antoniadis to the Minister of Economy and Development on the progress of the projects and studies on the 5th EPA (ESDP) in the Prefecture of Florina. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 329/10-1-2017 topical question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister for Migration Policy, concerning measures to protect refugees and migrants from brutality. 3. The Question No 324/9-1-2017 by the Independent MEP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information on the activation - the exercise of the duties of the new members of the National Broadcasting Council (ESP). Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The second question will be discussed under number 1332/21-11-2016 by MP Laconia of the New Democracy, Athanasios Davakis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the urgent interventions to save the most important Byzantine monument of Saint George Loganikos, the Municipality of Sparta. The question will be answered by the Minister for Culture and Sport, Mr Connordou. Mr. Davakis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, the question which I have raised once and for all because of the Rules of Procedure has to do with an emblematic, important Byzantine monument in the northern Taygetos region, which, unfortunately, has not so far received the appropriate attention of the state. So far, of course, we do not mean the two years that you have been running, but a number of years that, apart from the considerable interventions of the people in the region, as far as they could - I am sure the people have tried to support the roof of this monument from 1935 to 1960, not to get into water, to do some reconstruction work - nothing has been done but little. I was pleased to see that on 23 December, on Christmas Eve, you made a decision, Minister, that you did approve of the architectural, static and geological study that the Municipality of Sparta had under a programme agreement from your Ministry. There are some shortcomings in this case. I think it is even more timely to ask our question on the basis of your decision - which really gives a favourable perspective to the whole of history - in order to make the immediate, effective, appropriate - I would say - assistance and assistance of the Ministry of Culture, in order to make this case, this work, this study should be supported as it should be, so that, as part of a European programme through the region managing the sectoral programme of culture, we can move forward towards the completion of the restoration, armouration and avoidance - of any accident in this monument. I am anxiously awaiting your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u4	Indeed, this temple of St. George Loganikos is an important one-stop, mararoskept temple of 1374. It is an important monument, which is seriously problematic, both because of the old age, of course, but also because of the soil, which is shifting and constraining the monument, but also because of old interventions, which some have worked beneficially in the northern part of the temple, but some have created serious problems. A small retrograde: As you know, in 1999 a preliminary study of the need for structural rehabilitation was carried out by a private study office. In 2013, a programme contract was signed between the Ministry of Culture and Sport and the Peloponnese Region and the Municipality of Sparta to study the repair and maintenance of the Byzantine monument and a joint monitoring committee was established. In 2014, the final study entitled "Preparation and maintenance study of the Byzantine monument of Agios Georgios Logaganikos", which included the individual studies, architecture, special architecture, static, geological, but - and perhaps this is to which you refer - geotechnics, which is very important. Receipts are made. There is no need for this geotechnical study to be drawn up. The monument presents, as has been seen, a number of structural and building problems, which are constantly exacerbating, due to subsequent interventions, parallel repairs, building the roof in contact with the west wall of the monument and mainly due to the irrigation of the field. In May 2016, the prepared study, in addition to the geotechnical study, which does not exist, was carried out in the final check and then the Restoration Directorate of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Monuments and the Co-authorized Directorate of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Antiquities introduced the issue to the Central Archaeological Council in September 2016. The decision on the study, repair and maintenance of the Byzantine monument was then adopted, provided that the geotechnical study, which is missing, is then completed. Therefore, at the moment in order to remove the risk of the monument, first of all, the tax office has asked that this monument should not be used, because, of course, it is dangerous to the safety of people, but also to further worsen it. Also, the cost of taking immediate measures to protect the monument has already been included in the action programme for the emergency solid and restoration work of the project, which will be carried out under the supervision of the Laconia Branch. It is important to add the geotechnical study and I hope - we will try to do so - to assist us with the Peloponnese Region, so that the work can be completed, which is indeed of great importance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much. Mr. Davakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u6	Madam Minister, if you have read - and I think you have read - the text of my question and the questions I have asked you, the third question would you see that I ask characteristics because from 2014 onwards the Ministry of Culture, since the problems of the temple were known, did not have the necessary budget for drawing up a geotechnical study, the results of which will give rise to the necessary additional interventions to deal with the territorial problem of the background of the Byzantine monument. In other words, we had seen it in our question about geotechnical study. In any case, if everything has been done by the Municipality of Sparta - a programme contract, money to make all the things that you very characteristicly said to us - should the Ministry of Culture not now help to draw up this study, the static geotechnical study? I would like a commitment from you, in this sense, that this study, reportedly, does not exceed EUR 8 000, EUR 9 000 or 10 000. So you realise that we cannot say to the Region "pay the study", because from the Region we are waiting, when it is a full system of stones, for the project to be integrated into an EPA, as it is now called. So I ask you, beyond the information that the service gives you, the well-known, etc. - which you see and understand what fine experience you will have gained - if possible, at the moment to commit - or see it, I don't know - to take over the cost of this geotechnical, geostatic study. It is very important, as is the supervision of this case of EUR 3,000 or EUR 4,000 by an engineer, in order to move forward. Because now that you are going to the candlestick, to make the study, to the inhabitants, who have done so much in this case, I think that neither our culture nor the structures of the Ministry are in line with this period - and I would like to say this to you - that many families in this region have not put the fats under the olives, because we have had a huge issue of incarinity. So you understand where the incomes are due to the decline, etc. I would say that it would be good at the moment to assist, that is to say the Ministry, since it is not a large amount, "I am paying for the geotechnical study, in order to complete the entire set of studies, to integrate it". This is my request, and that is why I tell you by living, in addition to the information notes, that I know that all the ministers are being provided and that they come here and read them to us. I do not think that this is in line with your course, I mean a man of culture. In any case, you understand what I want to say. We have to pay for the study, so we can move on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u7	Mrs. Connordou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u8	As you yourself admitted, you see our intention to incorporate directly into the new budget the costs of solid and back-up work. But we believe that, because such problems exist in monuments throughout Greece, it is also very important that local communities, through their elected representatives, should participate, not the ordinary people, but the regions. It is important for there to be cooperation with the region and I give you my word that there will be a great effort to coordinate efforts and, of course, if we see that this is in danger and that we cannot find a solution, we will help.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u9	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u10	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Production and Trade is tabling its report on the draft law of the Ministry of Tourism: 'Definition of the memorandum of understanding for cooperation in tourism between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt'. We now move on to the second debate under number 315/9-1-2017 on the second time question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration Mr Vassiliou Kegeroglou, Minister for the Interior, on the need for sustainable regulation of public debts and, indeed, to the municipalities and municipal businesses. The Minister of Interior will answer Mr. Skourletis. Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. May I wish a good year, since this is the first time I have spoken in plenary this year. I have tabled this question in search of the government's intentions to see whether it will proceed to a legislative proposal for a sustainable regulation of the debts of the citizens and, more generally, of the debtors to municipal and municipal enterprises, given the fact that the previous regulation, although it had positive characteristics in its original version, did not benefit from the use of all the debtors and because of the circumstance through which it had been introduced. Since very large amounts of dues have been accumulated, of course, from a municipality to a municipality, but the more general feature is the accumulation of the large amounts, because the citizens who want to pay the obligations are willing to enter a sustainable arrangement, and at the same time this will help the municipalities to obtain revenue which is more than necessary for them at the present time, so we want the view of the Minister and the Ministry as a whole on the issue of a new regulation that will enable the debtors to fulfil their obligations in a specific way to be proposed by the government. Of course, what we are asking is for every debt to be within the regulated amounts regardless of the reason for it. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, too. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. It is true that a large part, the largest part - I would say - of small and medium-sized enterprises but also a large number of municipalities find it difficult to repay obligations and debts to the municipalities. And beyond the fixed arrangements that are already provided for the treatment of the problem, it is known that both 2014 and 2015 had similar legislation. We have to understand that we have to operate in such a way that we can make it easier in today's very difficult conditions for these debts to be repaid, even when they are not the only ones to be owed to the municipalities, but in many cases they are due to the funds, taxes, etc. So, taking into account this difficult reality for a large part of our fellow citizens, it is the intention of the Ministry - and indeed in the bill, which intends to bring down the most likely thing in the month - to include such a provision, which, apart from making it easier, namely the number of instalments, which will provide for these obligations to be repaid, should also take care of the question of increases, which have been imposed on these established and due amounts, in particular in relation to the interest rates charged on these amounts. There was one regulation from the previous political leadership in the multi-legislative draft submitted with various provisions concerning the municipalities, and I tell you that this bill is being updated these days. It is our intention, if possible, to submit, in January, with a provision of this kind, which will be a real breath for the citizens' debts and for the municipalities and for them who have been charged with the corresponding sums. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u14	Thank you. Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the sums accumulated, although not calculated, because they relate to different municipalities, different entities, municipal enterprises, etc., must be a great deal. By judging by the Municipality of Heraklion, which I have an image, and by reason of the problems that you have dealt with with in the task of recovering in accordance with the procedures of the CEDEFOP and a number of other debts, the problem is huge with the seizures of accounts, which have been made and when these accounts, which seem to be personal, are in fact professionals and concern people and small businesses. A huge problem arises in the financial management of their activities. I would therefore say that it is imperative that a solution be found to this particular issue of the debts owed to the municipalities and municipal companies in general. It is very good that it is specified in particular that legislation will be put in place in January, including a solution, a proposal and, of course, it would be desirable for this regulation to be given before it is submitted to the CEDEFOP and to the parties, because it can be improved in a way that is sustainable and effective. We are waiting for the initiative and it is good that we have identified time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u16	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u17	First of all, I am pleased, Mr Kegeroglu, that we have the same perspective on this issue. In any case, I think we can, on the one hand, all the political forces or almost - at any rate - have a common position and a common vision of social issues, such as what you mentioned. You should be aware that such initiatives are not taken out of our stomachs or our minds. We are also discussing them with the representatives of local government, and obviously also with the CEDEFOP, with which we are in constant contact, so that we too can record the pulse of problems and the elected representatives of local government are in constant contact with us and try to reach such regulations and initiatives that are vitally resolved. I would like to say - and repeat what I have said before - that especially in recent years, we have to be open to such arrangements, because we are also facilitating municipalities and debtors, rather than, if you wish, a phenomenon of some debtors who, in the logic of the regulations and possibilities of the respondents, have allowed themselves not to pay their obligations. That's not the problem today. Today the problem is real and we must enable them to put their citizens and small and medium-sized enterprises into some elementary order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u18	Congressman Konstantinos Skrekas is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u19	The House therefore approved the requested permission. The first question will then be discussed under number 312/4-1-2017, a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the policies of the State on multitude and third families and on the treatment of the demographic issue of the country. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mrs Theanos Fotio. Please, Mr Katsafad, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the demographic issue may not be high on the issues of publicity, and I do not know whether it is on the issues on which the government's agenda is based. Nevertheless, the demographic issue is a huge issue, a night bomb, I would say, which lies on the foundations of both the state and the nation. That is why, Minister, I was forced, as a result of the new elements that have unfortunately been coming, where, for three years, deaths have been much more than births and on the basis of European elements, but also elements of the global bank, to ask you this question. I understand that the problems facing our country are many and important. I understand the difficult economic situation we are in. In this difficult economic situation, we are all in a society that suffers from all this overtaxation. But we must look at how we can strengthen the three-tier and multi-text families. We should look at how we can motivate young people who migrate and leave the country to stay here and be able to make a family. For example, Greece has the third lowest position in the European birth index and the highest ageing rate of population within the European Union. On average, a Greek mother bears 1.4 children, while in order to be able to keep the population of our country at the same level, this average should be at 2.1%. There is a lot of evidence that you and we obviously know about. I will be able to refer to this. But what I would like, Minister, in your protology is to have a clear commitment that, in relation to the second assessment and the medium term, family, luxurious benefits, but also the student allowance, which is very important, will not be affected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, too. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Your Honor, our Government has put the child's protection on its agenda too high. Very soon you will see laws that will directly concern the protection of the child. Because our Government is really interested in whether or not a young man can have a child or two in that country at all. You know very well that the problem with demographics does not just arise from the multitude and third families, which we support or do not support adequately, but from the previous governments, but from the insecurity it has or does not have a young man to have a child or to have a second child. As you well know, seven hundred thousand families are subsidized with family allowances. But what is this family allowance so far? It is 40 euros a month for every child who is single or single family and multitech. Moreover, in multitext families and third families it is a 500 euro allowance for each child additional year. It's not negligible. They don't solve the problem. You know that very well. They do not solve it, because the problem of fertility is certainly not a Greek problem. But it is also a complex problem, which even exists in the countries with high allowances or - if you like - high benefits. Because of course, we also have specific, quite interesting benefits for the third party and the multitude family. You know, because they have already been introduced since previous years, and we maintain them even though creditors, if you like, start looking at them with great interest and bringing - some of them, not all of them creditors - to reduce or restructure family allowances. In this respect, therefore, Mr Papoutsis, we strongly resisted. And since you invite me in the first part to assure you that neither you nor anyone is concerned, nothing will be changed to family allowances. This is our commitment, but also the agreement so far. But, as you know well, and that is the problem of our Government, if we do not go to a set of services and not benefits, the policy of benefits, even in the states that pay very large allowances for each child, does not change birthhood. Of course, after you read both Eurostat and the European Union, you know that. We do not now need to work with numbers, but you know very well that those countries which have the highest benefits did not increase their subgenitality, despite their policy for immigration too. The same goes for our country. So we intend to make a grid of services - that's what we're very interested in - with the child's focus. The child will have the services to a large extent. I mean the following. A sample of this policy has already been seen last year. We did not declare it to be for the child and against the birth rate, but it is very important and a message to society that all Greek mothers who have a child can be quiet that they can find a baby or a nursery. What proved last year's system that we first did? It proved to be a great shortage of baby stations. On the other hand, for the first time, we gave for the first time forty-five thousand children the right to go to kindergartens coming not only from working mothers, but from unemployed mothers and poor families. So if the message to society is that at least the first years of a child's life are assured at this level, that is a step for what you are asking and I think that you too are in agreement. [[The end of the speaking time of Mrs. Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I will continue in dentistry so I don't have time, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, twenty-three students and students and four teachers from the Special Professional Gymnasium of Agios Dimitrios. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Katzafadou, you have the floor for three minutes again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u24	Thank you again, Mr President. Minister, this issue we are discussing is a national issue and cannot say in a political and party controversy. However, I would like historically to tell you that the first time the issue of demographic was discussed was in 1990, when the then Prime Minister Constantine Mitsotakis did a study on demographics and then the governments of Costas of Karamanlis came in which he gave the same privileges as the many families in the three-seat families. Then came this crisis that leveled too many things. What you are saying in relation to the kindergartens, I would like to tell you that it started with our own government. However, you are two years in government, and I would like to stay in your commitment, because other things are being heard and others are being written. They're talking about further reducing duty. They're talking about offsetting benefits. In fact, in this difficult times and with all this overtaxation, you understand that it's very difficult to keep a family, let alone start and take the step. Clearly and I did not just speak of the threeteen and the many families. I have also told you that the first stage is to persuade young people to stay in our country, because it is a big problem to immigrate young people, and it is one of the three components of our demographic issue with deaths and births and, from there on, to be able to have a family, to have children. Of course, always putting forward the crisis that our country is facing and trying to bury under the carpet over time problems, which were also in our times, is not a good guide, good ally throughout this story, which we are discussing today. I will tell you that Ireland, which was one of the first countries to enter the memorandum process, has the highest number of births per year in the European Union. That must mean something. In fact, we need to understand what is essentially a social state, which must be structured and protect the citizens. And I'm not in favour of subsidisation policy, but I'm in favour of stable structures around the child and around the family. As long as we see them in practice, Minister, why are you two years in power? I would like to tell you that, with the overtaxation that you have imposed on you, the sacred act of childbirth - when someone goes to give birth to their child - has VAT of 24%. That is the reality that we are facing and that, of course, is not populism. I would also like to tell you that in the last three years, according to a study by the World Bank, infant mortality in our country has risen to 3.8% per thousand children from 2.7% before the crisis. These are problems which must concern us. I don't think it's a funny process, nor should we just throw the damn thing to the lenders. We must also look at our own responsibilities, our time-consuming responsibilities, which we have. This, Minister, is an issue, which is not just a matter of concern today, but is mainly about the future. Any insurance system and we want to build under this data system and that ratio between workers and pensioners will not be able to build it properly, because we will not have an insurance system, because we will not have an educational system, because we will not be able to keep our borders to the extent required if this course of demographics continues. So both for the nation and for the country it is necessary to start all together and to be able to make a rational planning to help and manage to overcome this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, too. Please, Mrs Fotou, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u26	I am pleased, Mr Papoutsis, that you see this as a whole. I believe that we will, in fact, proceed with a welfare service in the state, as you have rightly said. Sure, listen. You say that infant mortality has risen over the last three years, on the basis of the World Bank study. You know very well that the study was in 2014 and it concerns the previous years. That's the one element. We do not now have to make the controversy of this type. There are problems, as you rightly said, and as I started to mention. The first step we are going to take is to very soon announce the establishment of more nurseries, because this has highlighted the last year's system that we have implemented with the voucher. He pointed out what was hidden under the rug, that the country has no infancy stations. We are studying this at the Ministry of Interior and with the Ministry of Development, so that we can multiply the number of stations. That's the one. The kid next and then the infantry station will go to school. So we want a municipal public, upgraded. How upgraded, Mr. Katsafandos? As we say, with the full-day school. The child, in other words - what we did last year - will stay in school by four o'clock, and at four o'clock it will be able to go to creative employment centres, which we gave last year 29 million and which we will redesign this year. We are in agreement with the CEDEFOP so that CEDEFOP can be transferred to schools. Because what we want is for every parent to feel safe that he left his kid at school this afternoon and stayed there until 20:00 at night. So we're going to redesign the whole JAPD institution. Because for the public school, as for the public hospital, where mother does not pay for childbirth, or in any case pays according to her income, we want to ensure that this vast majority of the people, which has no incomes over forty-five thousand euros a year, these services in order to feel safe. So since we are doing schools in each neighborhood such security and education centres with special programmes, as you know very well, that we will upgrade them, and this work we do with the Ministry of Education, we then want it to enter the public university. Because if each parent should have in mind paying tuition fees, he does not have a child. And that's why, as you know, we're going to change the system of admission to public universities, and that's what we're working on so that his throat can be abolished from primary school until the child enters university. I forgot to say that one of the issues we are working a lot - and you know it and the Greek people know it - is school meals. In other words, every parent must feel secure that he will take his child to the nursery, kindergarten, school, and have a hot meal and then stay at the centre of creative employment. This gives the population security so that a child can move even further. No other policy will give him security. And I'm glad you'll be allies on this. But, at the same time, we will bring laws on administering and adopting, so that children and parents who want to adopt a child, but also fostering families, do not wait three and four years to find a child. And these kids are valuable and we need to take care of them. I hope that by February we will have brought the law that will speed up the takeover and adoption, since you ask me what we intend to do. Finally, the Social Income of Solidarity, which will start to apply from this month, incorporates policies for children. For example, for unprotected children, we double benefits through the CRL. Where the child was receiving fifty euros, now he'll get a hundred. For the luxurious families, as you know, there is specific care how much more money they will get. Therefore, a large part of the population, that is, seven hundred with eight hundred thousand people, will be able to provide a certain amount, together with a number of other policies. For example, TEVA works, the most deprived fund for food, for multitexts and three-text families. As you know, all our policies are converging at this level. In this sense, I believe that this debate we are having here is very interesting and that we will be able to go to a great planning of policies for the child. And from what I can see, we'll have the Civic Opposition allied to this whole thing. Because that's the only way we can maybe reverse this climate. You see, I haven't talked about the crisis at all. I have talked about policies that should be carved and the years of prosperity have become. But even with a few, now it's time to do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u27	Please finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u28	I shall conclude, Mr President. We plan to implement all this and of course they need hands and minds of people to do it. But we want to know, your party - which, as I see, is an ally - as far as recruitment is concerned? Because we need hands to make this policy. You see, for infants, nurseries, for all policies for the child, we're going to need recruitment. What do you think? We cannot always resort to the NSRF, because it is only the co-financed ones with which we can get some people. Tell us directly: Will you be on our side for recruitment or will you do the island? Will you also be in favour of reducing the public sector?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u29	I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council if he would The question is not what 'will...'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u30	We haven't been able to do what we had to do in a year and a half in forty. Excuse me, I'm apologizing. I'm apologizing, we haven't had time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u31	Apologise only for a year and a half!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u32	Please, ladies and gentlemen. We proceed to the first with number 316/9-1-2017 in the first cycle of the Member of Parliament Ioannina of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Meropis Jufis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the "Aid for the employment of 15 000 people at a particularly disadvantage, over fifty years of age". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr Antonopoulou. Here, Mrs. Jufi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we all have a good year! Mr Minister, as has already been said, the question of my question concerns the serious problem of the unemployment of a particularly 'favourable' social group, which is the old people, over the age of 50. You will allow me to quote, because there is a negative debate on the opposition, I would say, a reversal of reality, despite ELSTAT's filed official figures, without, of course, rejoice, given the fact that there is a very great problem of unemployment, to say two words about the efforts made by the government and obviously your ministry to tackle this problem as a whole. Let me remind Members here that unemployment during the period of governance of the New Democracy and PASOK has risen from 7% to 27% during these harsh memorial years, while in the two years of our own government, for which we are constantly being prosecuted, it has been reduced by four units. We are essentially talking about increasing jobs by two thousand from January 2015 to today, and there are - and there are more specific figures, up to December 2016, which, in comparison, show a decrease in the percentages of people in this situation. The process of dealing with this problem, of course, knows that it is painful. There is still the suffocating framework that our country is experiencing. But it seems to be starting to pay off. Of course, a significant contribution to this has been made to the programmes designed or redesigned and promoted by your Ministry and through the OAED. For example, the programmes for the unemployed of thirty to forty-nine years, which include ten thousand, twenty-nine to sixty-five years old, the programmes of a public nature, the programme for the four thousand recruitments to hospitals, as well as the programme to which I refer, which provides for the grant of private enterprises, the COMEP, cooperatives and general employers engaged in a regular economic activity, with a view to the recruitment of unemployed over fifty years of age, registered in the Agency's registers for more than 12 years. The duration of the total grant is nine months, with the possibility of extending it. The amount of the grant is approximately 50% of the monthly wage and non-wage costs of the beneficiary, up to a maximum of EUR 500, including gross actual monthly earnings, the contributions paid to the employer and the allowances paid to Christmas, Easter and leave allowances. However, from my experience, which was mentioned in particular by my own region, namely the Ioannina Prefecture, participation in this programme is low, with several posts remaining empty, despite the fact that, as we have said, this package concerns a vulnerable working, age group, that is to say, in the ages close to retirement, which, if they lose their jobs, is too difficult or almost impossible to find a next job. On the occasion of this, therefore, I would like you to inform us of the development of this programme in general in Greece, but also more specifically, as well as of the possible solutions, so that this programme can be fully served, possibly changing the conditions for participation, so that any counter-incentives can be lifted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, too. Please, Mrs Antonopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u35	Mr President, Mrs Jufi, I would like to thank you for the question you have put, because I am given the opportunity to inform the House, but also the citizens, of this issue which is of paramount importance to our ministry and to our government as a whole. First of all, I would like to inform you that this programme already has an absorption of three thousand five hundred posts. It is not negligible, because this means that three thousand five hundred families with our fellow citizens who were unemployed and over fifty years old have now found a job. Indeed, however, we are not satisfied, although - and let me point out - that is one of the programmes that are open. In other words, there is no date when the programme expires. They are open, so that we respond to the constant need for recruitment to this population, which, as you quite rightly said, is close to retirement. We therefore have fellow citizens who have to work for at least two, three, four years many times and who are close to retirement. That is why we have drawn up a package of programmes which may perhaps be given the opportunity at another time to discuss. However, I would like to focus on the specific programme you have referred to. In order to understand the margins we have in such programmes and the changes that we bring, I would like to make a brief retreat to inform you. These programmes, as you know, are subsidized by social resources. So here we have two routes, two cases: one is subject to the General Exemptive Regulation, which has a strict framework and concerns large companies. In this context, it is possible to finance a business of up to 5 million over three years. There is also the de minimis, which concerns small enterprises, i.e. enterprises employing up to 20 people. There are much less relaxed conditions in which one can recruit. Our first idea, therefore, was to go to large businesses that have the potential to recruit more massively. However, seeing that there was no absorption that we want to achieve, we decided and changed the programme and we broke it into two parts: one concerns five thousand people aged fifty and over, which will continue to operate under the General Appropriate Rules of Procedure. The other will concern ten thousand who can be recruited with the following differences from the first programme: Instead of proving an enterprise that within 12 months the employee's intake raises the average for workers, we will allow any small and very small enterprise to hire to the extent that it has not fired in the previous three months. In the current circumstances of the crisis, as you can see, this will facilitate many businesses so that they can participate. The second change we have brought is that so far in the context of the OAED, an unemployed person had to be registered in a CSD and the company that will hire him to have the same postal sector, so to speak. It could not, in other words, have been fired in Thessaloniki and found a job in another town, in another county, another district. He couldn't find one in a neighboring area. So that's what we changed. To tell you where we are today, this approval of the planned programme is at the beginning of the decentralised state aid unit. I hope, and I hope that this week the process will be completed so that these changes can be incorporated after the board's decision next week by the OAED. At some point, as I have said before, it would be of great interest to inform you of other actions relating to this very sensitive age, because the problem of young people is really very important in our country. However, the problem of the reintegration of the unemployed at a very high age is important and we are dealing with it with a programme, with the aim of which we are sure that we will soon have a very good outcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Jufi, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u37	Madam Minister, I would like to thank you for your reply, and especially for the substance of it, which speaks of redesigning these very critical programmes and of older people, as it appears that there are signs of improvement in the area of reducing unemployment, as I have said in introductory words and as you have said, there are signs of improvement. You will allow me here to point out that while it is recorded in the third quarter of 2016, there is a significant reduction in total unemployment - and you know that much better than I do - in these ages - to give greater emphasis - we do not have a reduction in unemployment, but an increase. So, at the ages of forty-five to sixty-four years in 2016, we have a figure of 18.5% from 18.4% in 2015. And, of course, this is even worse in ages over sixty-five years. Therefore, with the changes proposed by you and the willingness to have a wider debate on what we are doing for these age groups, which are still based on too many families - they are productive ages - with data and the issues of youth unemployment - we will be able to help to absorb better all these former workers, who are now facing particular difficulties in covering at least their insurance rights and being able to go to the next stage to get their pensions, in which, as we know very well, many families are supported because of the difficulties that still exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, too. Mrs Antonopoulou, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u39	I can only agree with what you have said and inform myself - since I have had the opportunity - of a new, specific programme for the ages of fifty-five to sixty-seven years. In this context, there will be recruitment for 12 months, which can be renewed for another 12 months by the wider public sector. So, beyond the private sector, we will also be recruited in the public sector, in so far as there are some jobs in municipalities, but not just. Our design has the following features: When new jobs are created with which we generally support the private sector, the state contribution reaches the level of EUR 381. In the case of the age of 50 and over, the private sector reaches 500 euros a month. We are, however, trying to raise this figure for both the public and the private sectors. So, in the next programme for ten thousand people in February, we will have an upper limit of up to EUR 600, to the extent that that represents 50% of wage and non-wage costs. We are open and we want to hear any constructive proposal that can help resolve the problem faced by citizens and by MPs SYRIZA - ANEL, as well as by Opposition. Thank you very much for the opportunity you gave me today to talk about this important issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the following to the House: First, Protocol No 172/73 of 11 January 2017 of the President of the Parliament: ‘Recommendation and establishment of the State's Balance sheet and general balance sheet and control of the implementation of the State's budget’. Second, Protocol No 173/74 from 11 January 2017 of the President of the Parliament: ‘Recommendation and establishment of the Special Standing Committee on Equipment and Conventions’. Third, Protocol No 174/75 from 11 January 2017, Decision of the President of the Parliament: ‘Recommendation and establishment of the Special Standing Committee for the Monitoring of the Social Security System’. Fourthly, Protocol 175/76 of 11 January 2017 of the President of the Parliament: ‘Recommendation and establishment of the ‘Committee on the study and treatment of the drugs problem’ of the Standing Committee on Social Affairs.’ Fifth, Protocol No 176/77 from 11 January 2017, Decision of the President of the Parliament: ‘Recommendation and establishment of the Subcommittee on ‘The debt and write-off of the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs’. The relevant decisions have been posted to Parliament Transparency and will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting. [[The abovementioned decisions, which read as follows, shall be submitted for the record:]] Changing p. Let the pages in. 50-59 Changing p.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u41	We are moving forward with the second debate under number 311/4-1-2017, a topical question from the Member of Parliament, Mr Athanasios Davakis, on the compensation to olive growers due to inconvenience and toll. The Minister for Rural Development and Food will answer Mr. Apostleu. Please, Mr Davaki, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u42	Mr President, since the summer that passed us - early June - I had made a reference to the Minister for Rural Development, which came from a document from the Municipality of Sparta, which was sent to ELGA and the Ministry, and mentioned the issues of damage and compensation due to the reduced fruiting of olive trees. In this report, which was very important, I was told by the Minister that the problem has been identified and a committee has been set up that has confirmed the phenomenon of reduced pitfalls throughout the territory. It is a phenomenon that has really not occurred to such an extent and without anyone knowing where all these situations have led to this tragic result, given that many olive mills in my region - but also in adjacent areas, in Messinia and in Arcadia, with less, of course, the possibility of collecting oilseeds - have not been opened. We have also reached that level, Minister. We have therefore tabled this report. You answered us like that. But now we don't have anything younger. At the same time, with the case of acarp, which may be glossom or cherry seed - we are now hearing new diseases - as well as other issues of defoliation, which have led to this result, we are not seeing much more. There is also the case of the high cost of production - another huge issue, which you must see - and we now come to the point of having these large percentages of reduced production, with what this implies for the income of Greek farmers, the Laconian farmers, the oil producers of the country, which unfortunately cannot be restored. So I ask: What are you going to do to mitigate these huge losses in the Laccos, the Greek oil producers? Do you intend to incorporate this whole process into a PESA - the well-known ones we are asking for - or some de minimis program, which I have heard before days to report on TV? Also, do you intend - after I spoke about the torch - to act in order to change the system of toddlers, to have something different, as the amount comes from you and goes to the regions? Is there any chance that the regions or any other body will be involved, but not with these huge problems that we have encountered this year in Laconia? These are the questions, simply and conscientiously, and I am asking your answers unequivocally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, too. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, you raise many issues, which are not just about Laconia, but about the whole country. Indeed - as you have seen, but we do - there is this phenomenon. The next phase is how to cover the consequences of this phenomenon. First, the ELGA, according to its founding law, cannot cover these cases of physical risks. That is what the regulation says. In order to incorporate these into the PESA, certain conditions and conditions laid down by both the State Aid Regulation and the Community guidelines must be fulfilled. Therefore, apart from these basic conditions, we should also see whether there has been any damage to this crop, to that product. In other words, it must be more than 30%. However, we must see this at the harvest next year - that is, that we are now in - and compare it to the three previous years, so that we can prove that there is damage. Be careful, at the same time, it must be demonstrated that we, for our part, have used the appropriate measures to deal with the insult that exists. So you realise that it is complicated. In the case of the tornado you mentioned, at least from what the regional sections give us, which have the specific responsibility, they did well. In fact, even in cases where they do not cover the money we have approved them, we come back and cover the extra costs. I am telling you this in particular about the Lakonia Regional Unit, which figures show that in 2016 the budget for the Lakonian Task Force was EUR 1 054 000 - more than the total expenditure for 2015, which was EUR 635,000 - with a budget available at the time - of 2015-1,145 000 euros. Nevertheless, in 2016 we gave them not only the specific amount that I told you before, but also another EUR 100,000, i.e. EUR 1,155,000. So you realise that these expenditures have been covered. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, a lot of issues have been raised and a reply must be given. Of course, the issue is about what to do with the acarp. You know that acarpia, as the committee has seen, is due to a set of unfavourable circumstances and other causes which are not covered by the ELGA. In order to incorporate a risk to ELGA’s insurance cover, there should definitely be a prior scientific study, showing the impact of the insurance contributions on the viability of the specified organism. So, as you mentioned, we set up a scientific committee with the participation of the universities in our country, the Directorate for Agricultural Research of the "ELGO - DIMITRA" and a first conclusion was issued. What does this first finding say? A proportionate study was decided. However, the damage that has to do with the acarpest that you have said, we cannot at present deal with it until this process has been completed. However, we can see these through the PESA through the possibilities of drafting a dossier which will go to the European Commission to be approved. We should have documented, as I told you, the level of damage. Of course, it's not simple. We need to see, for example, what we have, as I told you, in previous years, on two conditions. One condition is that the European Commission and the other should be approved by the state budget. The European Commission does not approve sums totalling over EUR 15 000-16 million per year and the state budget according to its potential. You have also raised other issues, which I will answer in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u45	Here, Mr Davaki, you have the floor for three minutes again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u46	Mr President, first of all I did not raise many issues, but two fundamentally: acarpia and the torch. Of course, as far as the incarnation is concerned, I would say that it is a result of a situation which we do not yet know why it has come to light. I told you about glossoms and kernels, etc., which are newborn diseases, for which the Ministry's services should be very hard to know what is going on. In your reply, I note that the Greek oil producer is in his fate, his fate and the fate of the farmers, who, as we say so, no one knows what they can provide to him to deal with these problems. Report the ELGA regulation. The ELGA regulation can in some cases be changed, because the heat is ineligible. There has been a heater during the season of the fruiting of olive trees and, unfortunately, there has been no such treatment on the part of the services. I think that you should see some things that so far I have not understood the right approach. You said about the PSAs. As you know, the PEAs, as you well know, need four years, two years to be approved, one year to make a decision at country level and one year to be paid, if there is the budgetary capacity, as you quite rightly said. From that point on, where are we going? My question is simple: will we, firstly, be able to capture the cause? This can happen next year too. How is this situation created? From there on, can you give the Laccos, the Greek olive growers a better perspective? Because there has been this problem everywhere in many areas. Others may be less and elsewhere more. But there is and may begin to appear because of the great climate change that has occurred, but also because of issues relating to the peculiarity and the phytopathological composition of the soil. Nobody knows. But in any case, as far as these conclusions are concerned, the gentlemen who are in your offices must also give the same applications and solutions to come and know what to say to the world. At the moment we have a huge reduction in income and a huge increase in the costs of farmers' production with various experimental methods, which are trying through the gardens and other information to put on their fields. For example, we hear they throw lime in the fields. You can see that all this is contributing to the further impoverishment of the agricultural sector that has taken place in recent years. I want you to know that we have done well in terms of the homicide, I do not think it is very precise, because we hear other complaints from the world about the homicide. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. In fact, when we hear about 50% of municipal districts want to join the tactics programs, we need to see this whole thing. We need to change the tactics program in terms of its applications. It also needs to be changed in terms of the historical reports of the torso population. You need to see things a little differently. These 17,000-18,000 euros, which you are making every time - 7,000-8,000 of which is only Crete, which I do not know and need to see - must be otherwise distributed in relation to the experience you have gained so far. If you are now telling me that you are pleased with the homicide programme, from there on no one knows about the results to be achieved. I would also like to say that the Tripolis ELGA should answer the questions of the producers concerned, such as the question of watering down, but also the question of heat in June 2016, which for most is the operative cause of the problem. Minister, will we, in short, be able to compensate or perhaps change the ELGA regulation on such cases? We do not rely on the ELGA regulation, because in northern Greece, for example, you have changed, as far as I know, the ELGA regulation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u47	Why did we change him?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u48	For the deer. There was this position on the deer from the Step of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u49	Mr. Davaki, please don't go to another issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u50	I'm done, Mr. President. Thank you. So you realise that this issue must really be seen. I fear that, if there are no appropriate decisions and appropriate responses, we will have the same time and the same time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr Davaki. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u52	Mr. Comrade, deer exist in southern Greece. If there were deer in northern Greece, there would be no living, because the fauna of the region does not allow it. The case you mentioned is in Rhodes. Unfortunately, there has been a problem, you have been informed that it has worked - I would say shameful - those who have disappeared an animal that is a symbol for Rhodes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u53	One did.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u54	Mr Colleagues, let us make it clear that the tactics are being implemented with a specific programme which we do not compile from the offices. Regional units. We are making a breakdown of money on the basis of sampling data, based on studies carried out in the region and, above all, on data which give us what the situation is, what the state of the olive forest is, what are the weather conditions that are formed in each region and on the basis of which we are deciding, having a specific amount that we will give. You know, this amount is from nowhere, neither the state budget nor the Ministry. It is specific money from the Ministry of Interior, which operate in the logic of recompense. That's the money, we don't have any more money to share. Of course, I told you earlier that the numbers that were particularly concerned with Laconia, in 2015, half the money was spent on what we had foreseen to them. In 2016 we put back the money we had since 2015, there have been greater needs, we have given another 100,000 euros. Whether there are any issues, whether or not the programme is being implemented is a good thing that we can discuss. Listen to me, we can talk about this, but first we should also see the responsibility of regional authorities in this particular process. But I will also be a little tough on the farmers. Finally, in such a process, they themselves should be involved and monitored. That's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u55	In June, the homicide in Laconia began, that's all.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u56	Please, Mr. Davaki, do not interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u57	Now, from there on, whether these damages are covered by the PEAs and how the procedure is done, please, I would like to say one thing. The drafting of the file has not yet been completed because the process of recording the data required to draw up the file has not yet been completed. We're moving on. You know, with the MAGPs somewhere we have managed, and the double control required by the European Commission now to be out of the way. A check. That means that at least the time of payment, as long as the budgetary conditions allow it. What do we have to hide from each other? We do not know that there is a budgetary problem and that the country is experiencing a crisis? Is it easy to find this money? But I am telling you, however, that it will be reduced to half in relation to the way previous payments were made. Now, as far as the acarp is concerned, there is a scientific committee and it has ended up somewhere. At this time, you should know that there is a whole debate at Council of Ministers level in the European Union, where the issue of climate change has emerged as one of the very serious issues. While we were in the opinion a year ago - I mean to the European Commission - that agriculture is causing problems in climate change, the picture now exists is that because of climate change there are consequences for agriculture. One of them is the acarpest. Now, you know, from there on, how many times do we insist that, yes, you have come to this finding, but should this finding not find resources to support farmers who suffer this damage? It is a matter and it is an issue which we always put to the European Commission on our side. But the time there is completely different, dear colleague. This has been the crisis in the dairy sector and a budget has been found a year ago. I wish this time the European Commission had established funds covering the impact of climate change on agriculture. We will, especially in this part, be very won. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, too. Mr Kalogerou, the Secretary-General of the Government, informs Parliament that they will not be discussed, due to the impediment of the competent ministers, but will be redefined for discussion, the following topical questions: The fourth question under number 317/9-1-2017, first question by the Member of Parliament of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Ioannis Giokas, Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the delay in the payment of accrued former contractors of the ERT. Mr. Pappas reports inconveniences. The fifth question, No. 313/5-1-2017, is a topical question for Members of Parliament, Mr. Theodoras Megalo-Economist, to the Minister of Health, about the risk of children and adolescents staying without treatment, due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Polakis, due to a workload. Finally, it will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister responsible for foreign affairs and the first question asked by the First Vice-President of the Parliament and by the Deputy Prime Minister of Athens, Nikita Kaklamanis, to the Minister for Migration Policy, concerning the program to rent apartments for refugees from the "Athens Development and Tourism View Company" (ETA). I also have the honour to inform the House that the Committee on the Rules of Procedure is tabling its report on the proposal from the President of the Parliament of the Greeks: "To amend the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament - Part Parliament (FO 106 A'/24.6.1987) and Part B (FO 51 A'/10.4.1997), as applicable". We move on to the third with number 314/5-1-2017, a timely question for the first cycle of the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the delays in the compensation of the affected farmers of Arcadia from the theory of 25 June. Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we met again on the same subject on October 7, 2016. Seven months have passed since the large-scale theorem that struck Arcadia, resulting in total destruction of crops, fruits, vegetables, livestock, bees and much more. On 7 October - I mention what you had committed yourself and nothing more - you said that the amount of state aid available is at 15 million and that the findings of that week from OPECE to ELGA are being transferred. It's been three months. You mentioned that there are attempts to pay the aid via PSEA and for other income losses not covered by ELGA, such as incomes in the years to come, the destruction of equipment and fixed installations. You said that when the 2014 programme starts, it will be possible for damage recovery costs. For the ELGA premium - and I will tell you why I mentioned it - you said that unfortunately there can be no setback, even in disasters. Today, seven months after the disaster and three months after your question and your commitments, where are we? It's not a big talk or anything, Minister. The reality is that, if this process continues and it is not paid yesterday, not tomorrow - and you said it was a total disaster - our production in the Arcadia region will not have a future. So far few payments have been made. If you want, there's been a minimum payment after seven months, not even 5%. If you have any evidence, I would ask you to testify to us, because of you we would expect. Secondly, I want you to commit to what time horizon these people will be repaid. I would also like to put one point to you, Minister: to rethink the set-aside, because this is an extraordinary situation, and I am learning, if I am not mistaken, and if you have the element, that of the two small areas that were paid and the 5% of payments, they probably could not be paid by 5% or 1.5%, because they had issues with ELGA. So, Minister, these commitments apply to PSEA, ELGA, a new programme? Thirdly, will payments be completed and what time? Also, because you said up to 15 million, if people are paid and the rest are not paid, because if you continue to pay at this rate, just before Christmas at 5% and January, you will arrive June and then we will not be able to proceed with production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u60	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u61	Mr Colleagues, you have either not been properly informed or not to say so. Here I told you in October, and I have here the phrase: "This is the time when the data are processed from the OPEKEPE file to be sent to ELGA at the end of October. The findings shall then be communicated and the compensation shall be paid to the insurance producers concerned.’. Do you know how long this process lasted before 2016? One year and a half. You said for seven months. Well, I'll let you know that by the end of December we've had payments to the insurance briefings. Let me make this clear, because offsetting is not an easy process, when you have a year that's one of the worst, and when we're already starting the new year in very difficult circumstances. So we will come to some logic, which will say: "Give me what I am entitled to, to pay you." Where? You all know that ELGA works rewardably. So we are coming, and I tell you that 300,000 beneficiaries were paid in December and by mid-February, that is to say we are talking in a process of eight months from the time that happened. Why am I saying that? Because, as I have said on other occasions, it is a process that is not easy. Starting with the submissions of applications, from the preferences, from the personalities to the OPEKEPE, because this is where we have to check, we have to go back to ELGA, see when the findings are going to come. It's a process that takes time. Of course, within seven months of paying these losses has not been paid. Now, because you're referring to other issues related to the PESA, they're related to the procedures...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u62	You tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u63	I'll tell you, of course. I said it before. The MAGPs are a process which presupposes establishing a dossier and, of course, this dossier must also have harvest data of the year and must be linked to the previous years to the European Commission to be approved. Previously, there were two controls, and that is why we had two and three years' time procedures. Control is one in the European Commission and, of course, since the country's budgetary conditions allow it to make payments. Don't make fun of each other. If we look back on previous years, four and five years, we come and we're still paying for the 2012 and 2013 MAGPs. So, finally, acknowledge that it has come into order, in payments, how much more so when ELGA is a fund that works exclusively backwards and when in 2016 we have a very difficult year. So, from our point of view, we are clear that what we committed ourselves to doing and by mid-February all the damages of June of Arcadia from these floods will have been covered for the insurers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u64	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty-eight students and students and three educational attendants from the 5th Highland. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u65	Minister, you have been under pressure for Arcadia - and I think for the other prefectures - since the first day and not just the 'political' pressure, as you have done in previous years. I could tell you what you were saying about Europe, namely that we expected you to change it, but you haven't changed it yet. I will not go in that sense, because these issues concern people who want to survive and, if they do not survive, there will be no production in my country and especially in Arcadia, in my area. You're the ones who talked about the PSAs, we're waiting to see when it's going to happen. I, Minister, hope that what you have said about payment will be done. Of course, you didn't tell us the 300,000 for how many people they are, how many insurance people are. We tell you our proposal. If you have the evidence, give it to us. Is he in five, ten, in a hundred, in five hundred? To figure out what's going on. Secondly, we say something to you again: Clearing will not give rise to a problem. This money you have to give will be taken by ELGA and may be taken by farmers as well. You don't want to do that. You'll be judged for that. You will be judged and judged by the farmers, not only in Arcadia, for this position. It is your right to say what you have said before you do not say it now and do not implement it. You're going to Arcadia next fort and so you'll see, you'll meet and you'll hear the people there. I hope in a nice way, in a democratic way, rather than what you have done, that they speak and tell you exactly what is happening in Arcadia and where they are all this time. I ask you, and I tell you again how it will appear whether or not your commitment will be kept. But I am still saying that if you make the setback, you will not close it, because at least 50% of the farmers will be excluded in Arcadia. They'll be ruled out. Nobody loses, Minister. Neither the ELGA nor the farmers, because of this money that the farmers are going to receive, will first go to ELGA - and the farmers themselves are asking for this - and then what is left will go to them. So I do not understand why a government, which wants to be close to the rural population and which wants to change the mistakes of the past, does not do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u66	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u67	Mr Colleague, you really want to dismantle an insurance body, which currently has a wider public character in the rural area. For non-payment of premiums where they have been damaged farmers, we have discussed with them many times, "Come to adjust your specific debts, give us a dose, so that we can enter the logic you say." From there on, if such a view is applied all over Greece, you realize that everyone will now expect damage to be done in order to offset it with the premium they are to pay. Why do you want to avoid a reality that you have served to the best in previous years? Secondly, I will give you the information on where the EUR 300,000 went.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u68	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u69	It is not possible to carry individual situations in parliamentary control when you raise so many issues. I'll give it to you, I'm fine with it. You will see payments this year in relation to previous years. In 2016, a revolution that you have not seen in terms of payments took place in the rural area. Do you know that we paid 3.7 billion payments that you had been outstanding since 2012, in 2007, in 2008? Please. Finally, let us recognise something that concerns the rural area, which you too are burning up to. I am very pleased, because I have seen that you have asked for a debate before the agenda. To come to Parliament and tell you, we have no problem, so that the entire Greek society can know what you and we are doing in rural areas. So let's give this date and see with figures not only numerically, the image of the rural economy today under the conditions that we serve, how things will be the next day. That is the sovereign, and that is what we will see your own views.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u70	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION Parliament's decisions: debate and vote, in accordance with Rule 76 of the Constitution and Rule 118 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, of the proposal: 'To amend the Rules of Procedure of the House'. I propose that a rapporteur or a rapporteur be given the floor from each party for ten minutes and, if anyone wishes to speak, speak for five minutes. The majority rapporteur, Mrs Kozobol, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, during this parliamentary term, since the first sitting of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, we have all agreed on the need to amend the Rules of Procedure and, indeed, on the update of the first part and the general reform of the second part of the Rules of Procedure. Consistent with what we agreed at the time, we started with urgent matters initially, outstanding employment contracts, staff issues, etc. and then they were arranged - with consensual procedures always - more permanent issues. Today we are at the stage that proposals have been made by all the members of the committee and by the President of the Parliament and are being processed by both the officials and the Scientific Committee of Parliament and we are ready the next time, after being consulted, to complete the amendments that we have adopted. But there is a need for some amendments to be tabled and they are the ones to be voted on today. The amendments to be adopted concern both parts of the Rules of Procedure, the first and second, the organization of Parliament's services and staff. Two provisions are amended in the first part, that of Rule 13 of the Rules of Procedure, extending the Conference of Presidents' Assembly by adding another member, the chairman or the chairman of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. This was considered necessary, since the Independent Members, in fact more than five, have requested and will have representation at the Conference of Presidents. This ensures the balance of the parliamentary majority. The first part, the parliamentary term, the provision of Rule 70a of the Rules of Procedure, is also amended so that they can vote on roll-call votes and women Members who have been in pregnancy for the last time before birth and the next period. During this period, which was set in a month and a month after birth, the Members concerned will be able to exercise their right, either by letters of formal vote or by a fax sent. The second part of the Rules of Procedure of the House, known as the Rules of Procedure, contains provisions on the organisation of the services of the House and the status of its staff. This part we have agreed that we need radical reform and then codification of the provisions, so that they are not scattered in various texts, with the ultimate aim of establishing a simple piece of legislation which will ensure the proper functioning of Parliament and its services and also of absolute transparency. The proposed amendments are fundamentally amended four provisions, but with the same aim. The purpose of the amendments is to harmonise the Parliament's Rules of Procedure with No 4412/2016 on public procurement. The provisions harmonising this part of the Rules of Procedure with No 4412/2016 are done with full respect for the autonomy of Parliament. The important thing here is that the House is not part of the central government authorities, but the public procurement procedure as established by Law 4412/2016 that I mentioned is being followed accordingly. Article 19 is amended to be added to the Department of Supply, Material Management and Ice Management. Article 21 shall be amended to replace paragraph 1, so that the Technical Services Directorate is responsible for conducting the procurement procedure, for supervising and supervising a public works contract or for studying the House, for drawing up a study by the Parliament itself for its buildings, as well as for maintaining them, for operating the buildings and for operating the vehicles. To this end, and in the same spirit, Articles 149 and 152 which provide for the use of the portal of the Parliament are amended instead of the National System of Electronic Procurement (ESDP) or the Central Electronic Register of Public Contracts (CIMIDIS) are amended. It is foreseen, by common decision of the President of Parliament and the Minister of Economy, that these systems should be interconnected - ESADI and KIMIDIS - with the portal of the Parliament. It shall also be constituted by a decision of the President of the Parliament's Committee on Examination of Procedural Actions and shall determine how it is to be established and how the term of office of its members is to be determined. The committee shall have the exclusive power to resolve, after a preliminary ruling has been lodged, the disputes relating to the stage prior to the award of the Parliament's public contracts. Finally, there is a third part of the amendments, which relate to matters relating to the Service Council. With a recent amendment to the Rules of Procedure, in August, the selection of members of the Service Council must be completed by the last Thursday of March 2017. Here is an extension until June of this year, because a number of appeals, which have been dealt with by the Legal Council of State, have been delayed. Finally, a member of the National School of Public Administration has been appointed as the Vice-Chairman of the National School of Public Administration, and the right is a member of the National Registry of the National Centre for Public Administration and Government. To conclude, I should like to stress that, first of all, all the amendments proposed today are to be voted on and they are to be adopted, they are in a consensual spirit and, above all, unanimously. I recommend that today's proposed amendments be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u73	Thank you very much, Mrs. Kozobol. The rapporteur from the New Democracy is Mr Tragakis. Please, Mr. Tragakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Parliament is the leading representative institution of our democracy. The parliamentary procedure must ensure and facilitate the emergence and promotion of good political and ideological confrontation. The functioning of the House is not enough to be institutional, legitimising and ratification, it must also be creative. The Rules of Procedure of the Parliament as defined in the Constitution, in particular as regards its parliamentary part, ensure that it operates freely and democratically. Some of the findings we can make in Parliament's Rules of Procedure are that, when compared to the regulations of other parliaments, it can be seen as very detailed and with a high degree of complexity as a text. In my earlier report on the change in Parliament's Rules of Procedure, I said that the change must be one: it must be implemented exclusively by the Bureau, but also by my fellow Members, the Rules of Procedure. This article alone would be enough to complete a process of change of the Rules of Procedure with regard to the parliamentary part. The Rules of Procedure are a text that is strict, but also alive, adapting to everyday use and to political practice. For this very reason - and even though it has the force of formal law - it is made up in every revision of it on the grounds that its arrangements are not permanent like those of the Constitution, but have the flexibility and the possibility, depending on the prevailing circumstances, to shape its character, sometimes as more liquid and sometimes more compact, as to the interpretation of its provisions. First of all, I refer to the second part of the Rules of Procedure, referred to in No 4412, which ensures the autonomy of the House. Poorly, many of us refer to the selfishness of the House. There is no selflessness of the House. There is autonomy of the House. And as our respected professor, Mr. Mavrias, has said - he is not here now, but he has written it in his writing - the House is the very body that produces laws, so it has guaranteed autonomy. Therefore, in order to guarantee this autonomy, certain provisions are in place which harmonise Law 4412/2016 on public procurement and public works contracts, which in short ensures this autonomy of the House and gives Parliament the right to the projects that are being acted on by the House, and also the commissions that are acting on behalf of the House, to be in particular - because many think that there is no electronic system and not the ESIDI and KIMIDIS system that falls under the rest of the public sector. That ensures the autonomy of the House and that is why we are all in agreement. As we agree on the examination of the preliminary appeals, with an addition, Mr President, which I did not see had, which I requested yesterday in committee, namely, the point which says 'there is a member of the scientific staff of the Parliament', to be replaced by 'a member of the Scientific Council of Parliament'. I had asked for it, and I thought it had been accepted. I don't see it in the final text. As I have also asked for the term of office for the Scientific Council of the Parliament, which is intended to be a one-year term, to be three years, such as the term of office of all others. Let's see if it's possible, today, that's what we're gonna fix. Now, for the technical specifications and technical competence, they are complementary to the rest, and I think Mrs Kozobol has been mentioned and I will not bother to talk about it. However, I shall refer in detail to Rule 6, Mr President - all the other things we are voting on - because the Rules of Procedure are usually passed unanimously, but I had a reservation as to Rule 6. I can confirm that today. We shall vote'residents' because this provision, which gives an extension until we await the decision of Mrs. Legal Adviser of the State in Parliament to go to a section of the Legal Council of State, I feel that she is trying to solve a rather internal political problem of the Parliament. We all know what is behind this extension. Yesterday, Mr President, a decision was published - and I will put this to the House because it was published the day before yesterday, on 10 January, and we were unaware of this - and I am aware of it today - which extends forty days the tabling of the tables with regard to the promotion of officials. I give this to you in the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Tragakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] That is why Article 6 will therefore keep this reservation. Of course, there is a difficulty in deciding, because there was indeed a decision by the Scientific Council. There was a procedure as provided for in the Rules of Procedure and this procedure was followed. After a draw came out a committee, which highlighted those who will be members to judge the promotions of the Directors-General, the Directors-General of the Parliament. So, in this, we are holding a reservation, we will say'residents' and we will follow it step by step, because there has also been an announcement today of one of the combinations of Parliament, the Unified Action of the Workers of the Parliament, which at least left me amazed. And I'm tabling this in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Tragakis, presents for the minutes the communication referred to above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But I will now be given the opportunity, Mr President, to refer to the first part of the House's Rules of Procedure, which I think is the most important and of interest to us all, because the Rules of Procedure need to be improved, we need to modernise, we need to create those conditions so that we have a regulation that has no asterisks, because the last revision we have made in the Rules of Procedure was about five years ago. New conditions have been created. There are inappropriate provisions, some streamlining needs to be done in certain regulations, and there must be the possibility of realization of the functioning of the House, which is the reliance on the guardianship of the government. I think that our main concern should be to have a regulation that has been dismantled from the guardianship of the government in question. A second objective and our aim should be a closer link between the government's mediation with the Union's institutions. We are playing the dominant role, because we are legislating here, and here we are ratifying all the conventions they bring from the European Union. We therefore consider this fruitful consultation to be a good one for the promotion of a new Rules of Procedure in this House, which will respond to modern developments and demands. I would like to take this opportunity, because I have put forward a proposal on behalf of my party, the New Democracy, on the revision, briefly to mention a few things to give you some stimuli as a thought. First of all, I will pass on to you a personal opinion from my long experience here in Parliament on the subject of diseases that we have been through, Mr President, on pregnancy and preservatives, a month for our pregnant parliamentarians. I feel that this measure can be extended to other cases - I have asked the committee too - for a proven major MEP, who will be able to vote by letter and when there is a serious cause for illness, because there will also be such cases. I will not forget the case of 1985, then in the secret ballot of the election of the President of the Republic for Mr Sarzetakis, that a fellow Member came here to the House in order to vote. On the occasion of this, I shall give you a personal opinion on the election of the President of Parliament. As you know, the President of Parliament and the Bureau of Parliament is elected by secret ballot, when the President of the Republic is elected by roll-call vote, when all budgets are by roll-call vote, when even the government's schedule statements are made by roll-call vote. I would therefore propose that this should be done by roll-call vote, not by secret ballot, and that the President and the Bureau be elected. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will take one, two more minutes and thank you very much. A second point I would like to make is the question of the duration of the Ethics Committee. An issue has been raised on the duration of the Ethics Committee, but there are other issues which we need to review on the Ethics Committee. The Ethics Committee must be set up throughout the period and not just every Session, on the one hand, and, on the other, we must look at the case that is presented in several Members' cases, who are members of the Ethics Committee and, at the same time, have suffered the suffering of a sue from anyone. This is a very common phenomenon. I would also like to propose something for the Bureau of certain committees. For example, the Bureau of Parliament's Committees on Internal Affairs, Library and Finance has always been intergrouping. As long as I've been in the House, it's always been cross-party. In this period, but also from the previous period for the first time, that is to say, since January 2015, this Bureau is not intergrouping because, as you know, the Quaestors of this House, who are from all parties, are, as you know, involved in this Bureau. Another which I would like to put - and it is very important - is the issue of the unconstitutionality of the laws. As provided for in the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, anti-constitutionalism is discussed at the beginning of the first debate in the House, when amendments are made, when the government has double or three times the bill itself and has a number of anti-constitutional arrangements. So an important proposal which needs to be passed is the possibility of examining unconstitutionality and amendments, but also legislative improvements. Another proposal will be made and I will be closed, Mr President. I shall refer to the issue of the too many ministerial decisions and circulars provided for by the laws. There is a law providing for sixty-seven ministerial decisions and circulars and not yet adopted, so the law does not apply. You realize what an empty one is. The proposal is as follows: At the same time with the law, both ministerial decisions and circulars provided for by the law are tabled, so that all of us are fully aware of it. As far as the Legislative Rules are concerned, there are too many proposals which I would like to make when we begin to discuss in detail now Parliament's Rules of Procedure, as well as I have many proposals that I can put forward with regard to parliamentary scrutiny, because parliamentary control should also be improved in many cases, but above all in the case of the refusal of ministers to attend the current questions. There was a day on which I presided and there were 12 time-consuming questions to be discussed and none was discussed because of the blockade of Ministers. The problem is time-consuming, I don't find it now. My proposal was and is that the honourable Member should be able to develop even in the absence of the Minister for a two-minute period his timely question. And you will see after that - I applied it in practice - how many ministers will come and answer topical questions. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you, Mr President, for the tolerance of the time you have given me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Christos Pappas, special speaker of the Golden Dawn, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u76	I shall speak from here for a short while, Mr President. Before we place ourselves on the Rules of Procedure of the House, I will be allowed by Mr Tragakis to make a very good comment - correction. The pregnancy or predation for the woman - there are doctors, MPs, and I say this because the Golden Dawn is sensitive to the issue of demographics, the birthhood, which is plagued by our homeland - is not a disease. Because you referred to her as a disease. It's a gender integration. It's, I'd say, divine gift. I think you'll agree. As far as the Rules of Procedure of the House are concerned, I would like to say that for the first part, concerning the amendment of Rule 13, which results from the addition of a member to the composition of the Conference of Presidents, that is to say the chairman of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, is added, the explanatory statement sent to the office is not the exact reason why this addition is being proposed. However, we believe that the presence of the Chairman of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs will not bring about any substantial changes in the functioning of the institution. We therefore have reservations about the existence of political objectives in this decision. In other words, there is a change in the Rules of Procedure at this point in time and not over time. That is why we will say'represents' in this part. Now, with regard to the amendment to Rule 70a, we think that it is a good thing that pregnant Members, namely women Members who are in an advanced pregnancy or predatory phase, are involved in votes in Parliament, and that discretion is necessary. I will, however, ask why this privilege should apply only to pregnant women or extend it to civil servants only? So, the rest of the Greeks, private employees or freelance professionals, women who face the suffering and threat of dismissal when they are found, by the bad professional, to be in the state of pregnancy, do they have no rights? Also, professionals, at the moment, are experiencing an economic reality worse than the Turkish domination of the tenth and the carpet. They are professionals from which the state, literally, takes 70% of their revenues. So they don't have these privileges too. In this sense and at this point we will say'represent', not in its essence, whether it is right or not. The second part proposes adding a total of seven articles. On substance, we note the analogous application of the provisions of Law 4412, for public contracts, i.e. works, supplies, etc. In essence, none of us plays a part. It is simply a harmonisation of the Rules of Procedure with the above-mentioned law. It has nothing to do with that, and for political reasons even more, we are saying 'the present'. As far as Parliament's Rules of Procedure and amendment are concerned, I have to say that the Greek people who are following us observe that the Rules of Procedure of the House are being implemented in due course. So, what Rules of Procedure are we talking about? For the Regulation which does not apply? For the Rules of Procedure being circumvented at each sitting? Are we talking about this regulation and you want us to amend? We are also talking about the Rules of Procedure that make sense of common sense and I would also say the parliamentary procedure? Mr President, I am not personally referring to you, it is general - and people laugh at this sight when they sit, as good time sitting in your seat, and say 'the sitting is interrupted for ten minutes' and they stand up and sit again, they rise again and one minute later they say'repeat the adjourned sitting'. In other words, you are applying the type and you are literally making a mistake, both the Bureau and the procedures. This is inconsistent in view of the other orgy that is being done with regard to the Rules of Procedure and its circumstance. Here you are the regular "Yiannis is buying and Yiannis drink". I mean, we denounce it. The truth is that we are the ones who came in May 2012 without parliamentary experience - because we were not like you and continue to remain unlike you - and we were the first to denounce the Greek Parliament. What orgy do I mean? The payroll. Who else made his seven-sealed secret public how much a Member gets? The Members of the Golden Dawn did so from this Step. Who else made the unacceptable status of committees public, paid to the Member for the work he is obliged to do, involved in committees? We even raised the noise from where for ten minutes, for half an hour, for one hour, a meeting on a committee, the compensation for participation was EUR 350 - when EUR 350 for the lucky man who has worked in the days of the memorandum is a wage - you did 75 euros. And there is the precursor - I beg your pardon for the expression, but I also see it in the committees which are not publicized, which are not covered by the channel of this House, but also by the Conference of Presidents, which I shall be referring to. There's this fear to everyone. I have heard it at every parliamentary session, not now on the left, but on the so-called right. Mr President, as far as the committees are concerned, the Rules of Procedure are part of the Constitution. And that's how it should be. Does the Constitution apply? Does Parliament's Rules of Procedure apply? Oh, no. Because you and all the President-in-Offices, and not now but before, have happened to say: 'Traditionally, against a plenary decision'. In other words, you put the plenary on top of the Rules of Procedure. So let us put this House above and from the Constitution, not have procedures for the revision of the Constitution, etc. Let us say that the plenary says 'do this'. Whatever's of interest to us, at the moment it's of interest to us. Either there is a regulation and it applies or you do it as you wish. The Rules of Procedure must therefore be in place and implemented. And if we want and there is a deadlock or anything, then it should only be changed or a solution given not by the Scientific Agency, but by the representatives of the Greek people, with the 3/5 of the Parliament, with the hundreds of eighty Members. Because the Legal Service of the Parliament is also officials and they are not representatives of the nation, and there may be other claws and relations between the respective administrations with the legal service. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall end. Mr Tragakis referred to the Ethics Committee and I take the floor to that. Why in the Greek Parliament beyond the Committee on National Defence - and I accept that, is it right - to apply the confidentiality of the procedure and the non-publishment of the committee's content, the non-television coverage? Why should the other committees not be aware of the Greek people? Why should there be no coverage in the Ethics Committee? Why should only be the Member, the representative of the Greek people, who will have access to the minutes of the Ethics Committee? The Greek people, however, cannot know. I, from yesterday's committee - and if you wish, Mr President - published the minutes of the Ethics Committee from my blog and from the Golden Dawn blog so that the Greek people know what is going on in there. As also, the Greek people must know exactly what is happening in the Conference of Presidents. We cannot say, Mr President, that only when it is a public matter should there be a cover for the Conference of Presidents. The whole House is of a public character and the Greek people must know exactly what is happening in the Greek Parliament, no matter how many people want to cover up what's going on here and blame those of us who came to uncover them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u77	The party's special speaker The Potami, Mr. Lykoudis, has the floor. Because he will replace me in the Chair, he will precede Mr Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank Mr Kegeroglu for giving up the series. Ladies and gentlemen, the House is the representative institution of our democracy. It is an institution of top importance and institutional and legitimisation and ratification. It is precisely because it is very important as such to see the double features it has in its structure. The Rules of Procedure are a text which can only be strict, because otherwise it is not working. We cannot have a loose Rules of Procedure of Parliament, because this cannot be the case. But, at the same time, precisely because its institutional function is of enormous importance, it can only be a living text, that is, a text that undergoes the necessary repositions and re-orders of its articles and its provisions. In this sense we are quite rightly faced with the need to look again at aspects and points of the Rules of Procedure. Today we have proposed provisions on specific issues that are put to the vote by Parliament. We agree with the proposed provisions of Part One, which relate to adding to the Conference of Presidents to it, and to facilitating the participation in the votes of our fellow Members of Parliament of pregnant Members. As we also agree in the second part with the proposed provisions adapting to the present circumstances to various operational aspects. I could conclude this remark here, but I would like to say a few words, in particular, that the Rules of Procedure should attract our interest and attention to a next meeting of Parliament and, where appropriate, to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. There are three main areas that want too much attention and interest. The first area, which I think is very important to be overboard to see, if necessary, corrections, is the management of time in the debate on our legislative work in this House. Mr President, all this time - and I think I am not mistaken - there is a sufficient presence at the Step and an analysis of the views of my fellow Members, because we are unbelievablely depleting the agenda, that is, the time before us. Let's go up to 1 00' or 2.00 in the morning, so that we can get the views of all the Members present. That's why? Because there is a storm in covering time on the part of Ministers, State Secretarys, Deputy Ministers, Parliamentary Representatives, rapporteurs and special speakers from the parties. The whole of this time is incredibly extensive. The time-consuming comfort that the parties' institutional actors, who are those who I mentioned before, must be excessive in relation to the opportunity for Members to speak and speak, too. I therefore think that there should be a restructuring of the way in which the legislation in Parliament is being discussed. The second big sector, which I think should attract interest, is the way in which parliamentary control is exercised. He said before, Mr Tragakis, the point I wanted to raise. We cannot have so many absenteeisms, when parliamentary control is carried out and so many postponements to topical questions, so that many times a topical question, postponed for the third time, is not up to date, that is to say there is no reason to discuss it afterwards. We need to find a way to change this. I do not know whether Mr Tragakis' proposal, which I find to be interesting, is inconsistent with other kinds of 'client' aspects of our Rules of Procedure. In other words, if the Member can explain his timely question and address to the Minister. This may also change the climate in the exercise of parliamentary control. From there on, the third big sector that I think should be concerned with is the area of amendments. We must agree very clearly, but also strictly, how the amendments are tabled, how and how they are accepted, what is happening and how we are dealing with the delayed amendments, obviously with a divergence from the strictness that often has this issue, and if, if any, we are objectively pushed by various issues. But the way in which the amendments to the House are now coming to be debated does not help anyone. It does not help the government, it does not help the opposition, and it does not help the exercise of the legislative work and the parliamentary process as a whole. One last point I would like to raise, but I am very afraid that it cannot be defined with any effort and with any stricter rigour in the Rules of Procedure, is the violation of the time that each Minister or a mere Member has, in order to present his views, the time given to him by the Rules of Procedure. We must sort of resolve this issue in an agreement of another type between us as members of the Greek Parliament. It is impossible to continue what we all know and what I have experienced many times from the Chair in conducting discussions. It is impossible, in other words, to continue this logic, almost any of the Members of Parliament or the Ministers or the Parliamentary Representatives does not consider that they have to speak about the minutes of the Rules of Procedure or on the basis of the agreement that has been reached. I'm talking about, I'm not saying strict. When, in other words, he has to speak for seven minutes, speak seven, eight or even nine minutes. However, the development of a political speech from six minutes to twelve is common practice. I say that this cannot be solved, I suppose, by any kind of provision, because there are provisions. He removes the word or closes the microphone. But it is not because we cannot have a debate in a good climate. We all know, however, that there may be a relative divergence from time to time, or many times from the point of view we are discussing, but this flagrant violation of time, but many times also the debate outside the subject, completely out of the question, during the speech of a colleague cannot continue. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u79	However, let me say, Mr Lykoudi, that the best return for the ministers to come and answer the questions was to the regime under which it was set a day per Ministry. So if the Minister hadn't come, the Deputy Minister or the State Secretary would come. However, someone would come because otherwise there would be a big gap when it was, for example, the Ministry of Finance day and there would be no one here to answer. This scheme has yielded more than other regimes in this respect.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u80	Mr President, there is now the phenomenon that the Minister will not come, that the Deputy Minister will not come, that the State Secretary will not come.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u81	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u82	And not once, but two or three. I have tabled a question, which was postponed for the third time and withdrew.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u83	This will expose the Ministry more of course, so someone will be forced to come. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, thirty-seven students and students and three educational attendants from the 5th Highland. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Kegeroglu, we apologise, but we will give the floor to Mr Georgiadis, who was in another committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u84	Today we are galantos!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u85	Good! Mr. Georgiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u86	Thank you and thank all the colleagues who give up their position. I'll be two minutes, I won't be too late. We shall vote directly and we shall also vote in favour, as in all the articles we make positive. With regard to Rule 1, welcome, as has been said, to the Conference of Presidents, the President of the finances, as there may be something important that he would like to put forward. It's not bad. Article 2 is, of course, acceptable in this respect. Finally, the issue of pregnant women is solved, although, as we are doing, some of them have a disease issue. It leads to another piece, so we go to the subject of illness and cover the pregnant ones. In the second part, the clarification based on the qualifications for Article 5 and Article 6, we will not oppose the provision, as it seems to give a solution, rather than prolonging or perpetuating a situation. We shall proceed with the proposed amendments to Article 2. Let us set up, as the committee says, and let us see what work it can produce on the question of the preliminary appeals, provided, of course, that no additional powers are exercised or members are increased, as is usually the case in such cases. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] As far as Article 4 is concerned, we are awaiting clarifications on the subject of 'derogation'. Make it clear. We believe that this should be more specific about the provisions governing the public sector. For Articles 5 and 6, we are positive and, in general terms, as I said to you, the whole proposal is positive. Some general remarks I would like to say for a minute on the representation of the Independent Members at the Conference of Presidents. Of course, since the seven of us have now arrived, it is imperative that this be done. On the other hand, we should be concerned about the fact that there are a number of colleagues who disagree and are independent. They may be personal ambitions, they may be anything but we see that soon they can reach ten and build their own parliamentary group within Parliament. Furthermore, with regard to the proposed provision concerning the Members' letter of vote on some parliamentary work they have, we support it too. We believe that the party duties are consistent with the parliamentary work of each Member. We don't think there's gonna be any abuse. In any case, we see who is intending to vote instead of sending a letter of vote. But the will of the Member should not be ignored and the work he produces in his absence from the House should be regarded as minor. It will therefore be good to accept these proposals in terms of lettering. We would also like to propose a proposal, which we made during the committee, to restore things to the previous situation, regarding the representation of the parties in the Standing Committees. We have seen that both with our independence, from our party MP and from Potami and due to the reduction of parliamentary powers, we have lost four Members in committees. This fact with regard to the Standing Committees brings us many problems in monitoring and in the proper functioning of our parliamentary work. We believe that there could be a new approach to this issue, which will enable us not to be deprived of our duties as a parliamentary group, for reasons not due to our will or fault. Finally, I am addressing the service of the legislative work. We are finally calling for a better planning of urgency and urgency. You can understand that this creates chain reactions within the House, both for those officials who may need to be evenings here, to provide us with a well-functioning parliamentary work, and for us Members where we are last minute called on to read numerous pages for a draft law. It is good to do this, if it really is required, but not to be panacea, as we have been used to over the past few months, because it does not serve anyone. We don't think we're being pushed by some and we can have the bills under the normal procedure. It would be a good thing if there were to be a better programming for the better of all of us. Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank those colleagues who gave me their position. As I said again, on the whole we are positive and vote on all the articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President. The House, the main institution of democracy and our representative system must be our care and constantly upgraded, its functions upgraded and, above all, we must aim at good legislation and effective parliamentary control. On these issues in recent years we have been having abusive practices. With regard to legislation under the procedure of the amendments and the mergers of the time-consuming debates in both committees and in plenary, the legislative work has been degraded. The concept of good lawmaking has gone for a walk. Of course, the non-regularity of the government and the fact that in the future, when that normality comes, the procedures for good legislature will be respected. I think it has no objection. And there is no contradiction because, in our view, there is no proper planning on the part of the government so that it does not actually blackmail the House with deadlines for the country. On the subject of the amendments which have been debated a great deal. We cannot continue to abuse, and every time we have piles of amendments, which go beyond the number of articles in the bill that are being discussed, we must invoke the one case that took place in 1865 or 1975. There is no need today for the upgrading of the legislative work to be overlooked and instead for the phenomena of the (n) amendments to be multiplied, with 'n' ahead. There have always been - it has been said by Mr Tragakis - phenomena. Yeah, but now we've come to the abuse. We have tabled a proposal which we shall insist on in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Members' amendments are tabled to the committee working on the bill. Of course, in plenary, the Minister is entitled to accept parliamentary amendments, but only if the procedure laid down for the report of the General Accounting Office of the State has been followed and only if they are time-consuming and relevant to the bill. We will insist on this because this "hole" must finally be closed, regardless of when it was opened and when it was raised, regardless of when this abusive practice began. Ministries may, for the necessary amendments, be prepared in good time and may bring ministerial amendments in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. From there on, this unacceptable one, which also happened during the debate on the last bill before the holidays, must be brought to an end. That is why we will insist and wait for the second phase of the amendment of the Rules of Procedure, which will deal with the legislative work. One issue that relates to the legislative work is the amendments, including ministerial amendments, to international conventions. It is disgraceful that an international convention, published both in the country or countries with which we have signed, should also include a regulation on how waste water is disposed of, to include a regulation on internal issues. This is unacceptable and should not be done, only because we are exposed beyond the internal and external borders and in each country with which we have concluded this international convention. As far as parliamentary control is concerned, there is abuse by the ministers, by the government and by the government. There should, of course, be a drafting of rules ensuring that this abuse which is taking place today is limited to matters of force majeure, with obligations of the Minister abroad or anything else. There are proposals and thoughts there, which have been expressed from all sides. We must do this. Parliamentary control is a basic function of Parliament and at a time when legislative work is poor for many reasons, this parliamentary control process must be more dynamic and creative, so that solutions can be found through it, on issues relating to society, the country and the citizens. There may also be abuse by parliamentarians. There may be, Mr President, - and on your position you have also referred to issues of time. Sure. But look, you won't start from thinking time limitation. I say this because you have also referred to it and may have been mentioned by other Members of the Bureau or discussed it among you. You will start with the application of the Rules of Procedure. Of course you're flexible, for the benefit of dialogue, many times. But this, instead of being in the interests of dialogue, is at the expense of the dialogue and the expression of Members. Therefore, the overrun, the abuse of time - ten minutes to become eighteen - by either a Member of Parliament or a minister or an intervener of Parliament - is at the expense of dialogue. So we're gonna have to set a line, that this is as far as the time violation. Start keeping time with a certain flexibility, which the President-in-Office will have at his disposal. But be specific. Not when it is Mr Kourakis leaving us for ten minutes, while we have seven minutes, and for example - for example - are the names that are more stringent than you, let us talk for seven minutes only eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u89	I leave 20 minutes, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u90	Yeah, I'm afraid so. So we start from keeping time. If we respect the Rules of Procedure we see that there is a matter of time, then we will consider a reduction. I say this, because some opinions have been put forward, to be in your wish to make the seven-minute period, depending on whether you will get out or not, i.e. whether the procedure can continue in a way that has taken the bill or the debate in this House. I think that this thought should not go any further but to see the application of the Rules of Procedure from the outset. I now come to what the committee is introducing for discussion in plenary and to point out that we should first have dealt with the serious issue of legislative work and parliamentary control. In any case after the explanation given by the President that he will be coming in the near future, we will enter the debate on a number of regulations that have come. We have expressed disagreement on two issues. First of all, I must say that the issue of the country today, the great problem of the country is the lack of national understanding, the lack of consensus, the lack of procedures that will result in the benefit of the country and the citizen. This has to do with the functions of Parliament and, above all, with the functions of the Conference. We are the party that, together with other forces within the Conference of Presidents, broke a specific process which was endless and led to the non-operation of the National Radio Council in the country. And the non-existence of this council is at the expense of democracy. So we gave samples of writing to this and there was no need for either a majority government of one party or the first two parties that had not been able to reach agreement. So the rest of us forced with our small powers and there was this understanding. This must be observed, so we disagree with Article 1, which is to increase the number of members of the Conference unilaterally, and say that we will only vote on one condition. Since this proposal was based on the fact that the independent Members of the Conference will be represented with an independent MEP, this provision must only be activated in this case. If that goes through, which was the reasoning within the Conference of Presidents - I do not know if it was in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure - then we accept it, but not as a general provision and independent of anything. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Of course, it was a steep fact that, in my remarks to the Conference of Presidents, Mr Tragakis, a representative of Officers' Response, has undertaken to answer and support the government's majority, and this is an indication of the perception of the two parties as regards the composition of the Conference of Presidents. So I think that should come in. And the second article to which we will be voting'residents' is the article on service councils, the extension of time, because the necessary explanations were not given to our question 'Why is this transfer of time needed'? That is why we shall vote 'the present'. In other words, we expect the process of upgrading the legislative work and the effectiveness of parliamentary control. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u91	Mr. Palphie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u92	Of course, there can be no objection to the debate on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the House, but what is essential is whether or not the Rules of Procedure apply, this regulation which also applies to the problems and weaknesses it may have. It is clear that, both before and in recent years, especially after 2009, some do not represent the innocent pigeons - and the current government, of course, not only, they do not apply the Rules of Procedure but they have escaped. Of course the explanations are given, but in practice this is the case. This is about urgent and urgent bills, as you now rarely find a bill that comes for discussion in a normal procedure. It is also about this regime of amendments - I will imagine the subject of the plays that will be presented in the future - that is, forty and fifty amendments or 100 pages, irrespective of the explanations that may be given, and also about the issues of parliamentary control. So the first and the first point is to apply the current regulation. Now for the amendments we want to clarify our view as a Communist Party of Greece, with a clear understanding of what this House can solve not only with this particular composition as a whole, but also with what a urban parliament can solve. However, in this context, we are opposed to any restriction, whether it relates to the debate in committees, the days when the bills are being processed, or also to the restriction in Parliament's plenary or to speeches and posts. All of this is at the expense of two things. The first and fundamental point, in our view, is that there must be time for the people to be informed of what the government brings, so that the institutions, the trade unions, the associations, what they are, can organise their answer. Because it is not a question of voting once in the four or two years, which is considered the abstraction of democracy, but it is a question of allowing the organized movement, the mass movement being able to respond every day to anti-popular policies, which are not perfect. So our main direction is that we should be given the opportunity, not to limit time, but rather to give more attention to the drafting of the bills so that they can respond to the mass movement. This is the most important thing for us, because that is where we will be given solutions or conditions for pressures will be created so that they can even take some semimeters - let us say so - the working class and the populace. The second is that we do not accept any restriction on speaking time in the House. I'll repeat it. We are not going to be a European Parliament, where you have a minute to say about the European Union's foreign policy or any matter. I also tell you our experience, which other MEPs will have. In five and a half years the longest time I've ever taken was two and a half minutes once. It was usually one or a half minutes. That's literally a mockery. This is not about the fact that the other Members do not understand what each party says, but about the extent to which, as far as possible, the Greek people can understand exactly what each party says. There's also a false question about us. Party or MPs? There has already been a debate, that is to say, restricting parties' time, namely parliamentary representatives and party leaders, so that many Members can speak. I mean, first of all, that this does not make any sense. When a bill goes through properly, and when it is serious, it can be extended and can be spoken by those who want to talk. Restriction of Members' time, in particular, comes from the fact that draft legislation comes under the urgency and urgency procedure. While under normal procedure, if the House wants, it can decide to discuss the bill for one more day. So that's hypocritical and it's hypocritical, because in the end government parties put this issue on the table. He's been on the board. I don't know if any more parties will support it. We're against it. For us, is there not the dilemma of the Party or the Member? It is a party, because everyone is elected with a party, with a political programme that goes down, and this theory as a whole that the MP is autonomous and, in our view, hides a great deal of hypocrisy. To conclude, therefore, in this spirit we shall put ourselves in the debate on the amendment of Parliament's Rules of Procedure and not on what is hovering and on the basis of the proposals that have been made so far for fast track procedures everywhere, such as limiting speaking time, drafting time, time between the first and second readings of the bills, etc. So where are we going? What are we afraid of? As far as those articles are concerned. We in the first article do not agree and do not agree for more general reasons. I imagine that everyone understands that the governments that are coming do not express the majority. The opposite happens. It is the minority in the Greek people. The fact that they have a majority is due to the bonus of the fifty seats, above all, and, secondly, to the electoral system that is not just proportional, as everyone calls it. In this context, then, the correlations are also established in the Conference of Presidents. We cannot agree to adding another committee chairman. In the other articles except Article 7 - I will say why - we have no objection. In other words, Article 2, Article 3, Article 4, Article 5 and Article 6. Article 7 does not agree and we do not agree for more general reasons, not because this should not apply if legislation is in place. However, each one is placed on the basis of how he judges the system of selection of heads to the d - half. And in this system of choice, we as a Communist Party of Greece - I do not want to repeat it, it is written in the Minutes or I want to 'eat' the time - we were placed 'against'. So we cannot now agree to the implementation of what we disagreed with and, in our opinion, quite rightly disagreed. In conclusion, I would like to reiterate that, from the point of view of the Communist Party of Greece, we are putting the question of the application of the Rules of Procedure to the next time, as much as possible. Exceptions may exist. No one's insane. Another exception, however, is to make the exception a rule. The second is that we will be firmly opposed to any direction of limiting the debate and, above all, the timing of drafting the bills as a whole. Otherwise, we are prepared to help.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The President of Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, a very interesting debate has begun today, which is a follow-up to the debate on the changes to Part II of the Rules of Procedure of the House, which was also very interesting. This debate will continue, and we hope that it will be over in a month from now, since there will also be meetings of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure, etc., in order to bring in parts the issues concerning the legislative procedure, the parliamentary procedure, etc. Very interesting proposals have been put forward in many respects and when the articles and procedures concerned come, I think there will be a very serious debate. I would like to say that as the Bureau of Parliament and with the help of all colleagues, representatives of the parties in the committee concerned, we are entirely consistent with what we have said, namely that we will not put the matter under the carpet or refer it to the Greek or international bells, and we are dealing with all the issues which either have been pending or have to be modernised and streamlined and also to the Rules of Procedure of this House, as well as to all the other administrative, operational and other issues of this House. We are all right in our time in this respect, and I think we should be happy in this regard. Of course, as far as the Rules of Procedure are concerned, we must bear in mind that the House is called upon to operate and operate in recent years under a regulation which was made at another stage and is called upon to operate at a time when, firstly, the parties are much more. It is eight and even nine had become when the Independent Members had formed a team, because it was more than ten. This can also happen in the present period. If, in the near future, the simple analogue voted by Parliament can be a parliament with more parties. This is not the way and perception of the Rules of Procedure, with which the House was working in previous years. The House is also called upon to operate and operate on the basis of consensus and tolerances which exist - that is what this is all about. Why hide between us? The Greek people are also listening to us - and many times it also works - let me speak, I know that it will be misunderstood, but I do not care - and with patents made by conciliation, in order to develop the process within a time when there are international agreements commitments from the country. Well or poorly there have been and there have been practical monitoring procedures, as well as procedures that have caused suffocation symptoms over the last six years in legislative function. These are facts and situations that we all know. So we have tried and tried, in discussing the Rules of Procedure, to think that it needs to be modernised and rationalised. But it cannot be matched and harmonized with a situation that we hope - and we are all working on it - to get through it as quickly as possible. In other words, it is clear that we should insist very much that the Rules should have the perception, philosophy, culture - if you like - and the comfort that my colleague, Mr Pafilis, spoke about earlier, and the time of comfort and the opportunity for creative debate. The Rules of Procedure should also have the possibility of equilibrium, equilibrium on all sides of the democratic process. I would like to make it clear here, because a lot of things have been heard and whether the House is the pillar of democracy and the most important and only legislative procedure. That is not exactly the case and we all know that, because the legislative initiative belongs to the government. Even in the articles and procedures in which this has been done - for example, proposals for laws of the parties, proposals for laws which can be made by Members, parliamentary control, where the Members and others have taken the initiative - it is the government which decides, recommends, a prior agenda for discussion is being held. In other words, if you look at all the articles and the backbone of this Rules, which we want to amend and discuss, which, in normal cases, is supposed to be - periods, in what we call 'normality', was formed and recorded, it has a perception that Parliament, to a very large extent, is monitoring the legislative initiative, so that we can be very clear. I am telling you this because I believe that all parties' representatives are coming - and to me, as President, many times even - social actors, who say 'take this initiative to put this amendment in, to get this legislation in place'. This can only be done if it comes with the relevant Minister. We can only say in our good conversation, in the form of parties, as parliamentary groups, that they should come through the government to examine and legislate. I say this simply so that we can also know the limit that the Constitution itself sets, of course, the first pillar of democracy and the legislative procedure, which is the Parliament. With regard to the specific points - which I hope will be voted on today - I think all the clarifications have been given. On the subject of the Conference of Presidents I also said in the sitting that there must be - because this also calls for the Rules of Procedure in all its articles and the Conference of Presidents is a Committee of Parliament - the presumption of the possibility, even marginal, of majority voting, as is the case in the Standing Committees. The Conference of Presidents also has the special characteristics of having a composition which is not specific to its number. That is to say, every time it comes from how many former Members of this House are once again MPs and can be present, how many have dual qualities. Let me tell you something, Mr Kegeroglu, because you have also raised this issue on behalf of your party. Mrs Christodoulopoulos, for example, who is at the Conference as Vice-President of the House, is at the same time the chairman of the Committee on Institutions and Transparency. And instead of Mrs Christodoulopoulos, Mr Tragakis has come. It could therefore be possible to replace Mrs Christodoulopoulos if the narrow-minded-minded party were to follow the numbers and the marginal majority, so that one more of the ruling party could come. That's not how it happened. And it didn't happen right. The Scientific Committee gave me its opinion and President Tragakis came to the Conference of Presidents. These are the issues that need to be addressed each time, on the basis of the situation in this Parliament period after the elections. It's no different. That is why this proposal is also being made, since the five independent Members of Parliament have exceeded and send a majority colleague, Mr Theocharis, to join the chairman of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. That's what this is about. I repeat that at another time in the House, the previous time in which I participated in the Conference of Presidents, two, three former Presidents of Parliament participated and were then changed, Mr Kegeroglu, and the relations, etc. In the next, perhaps, through other connections that the people themselves will have given, this composition can be very different. In other words, the Conference of Presidents has this specific feature. That is what I wanted to make clear. The other issues that have been raised are too thin. In other words, there is a provision for heavy patients or for colleagues who - beating! - they had an accident, so they could count their vote. It's not easy issues. We'll talk about it in particular. For everything that has been said, the proposals are already being tabled, they are well known to the representatives of the parties and we have positions - at least I as President - because we worked on holidays. These are issues which either are sensitive or which can be interpreted in several ways or need compositions that we are going to make here. And that is why I think that the process started properly today, some priorities were put in place directly, functionally, and for the House, particularly in terms of supplies, competitions, etc., which must be resolved. In the other half of the month, we'll move on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Kammenos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u96	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll be brief. The Independent Greeks, as we said yesterday in our report, support all the amendments proposed by the Bureau. They're reasonable. The most important of all, I think, is selfishness or autonomy. I will agree with both terms, and I do not think that anyone is 'worst' than the other one, to use for the House in relation to the attempt to create public procurement, to have supervision, supervision and to conclude these contracts for projects and studies in Parliament. It is therefore extremely important that all of this, as it has been voted on and proposed, should go up to a public debate, be public, be transparent, be transparent for very simple democratic reasons, and for every citizen to be informed wherever he is, within or outside Greece, how much more so the Members themselves who do not, if you like, monitor, within the framework of the competences and the work of the House, as far as the conventions he has entered into for various projects and studies are concerned. On the issue of pregnant colleagues, we have nothing to talk about. We're supporting it. It's reasonable and reasonable. We discussed with the President yesterday all the other cases of sickness, accident and chronic illness. It is a great deal of talk, if anyone follows a medication, for example, if he has the clarity to vote in any way outside the House or through a representative. This in other parliaments in Europe or around the world is happening, but in Greece it can only vote by means of a letter of letter. All this will be discussed in the future. I think there is a good mood and too many proposals have been tabled. On the first issue of the amendment concerning the increase in membership, we voted 'yes', since there is a Parliamentary Group of Independent Members, which is currently represented by Mr Theocharis. And I think we should all wish them a success, because they must contribute to the work of Parliament, democracy and parliamentary control towards us, to the government. We have no further comments. Finally, I should like to say, in particular, that for us new Members and for the parliamentary groups that have little representation, it is important that part of the letter of vote should, for example, have two or three committees, or we should be present from a committee of Parliament or from our party for the work of the committee of Parliament or the party. We could put that in the Rules of Procedure. We as Independent Greeks, for example, have no world. We have MPs, members of our parliamentary group who are both Ministers and are not all in Parliament. We could have voted by letter of formal vote so that the work we have been commissioned to do abroad is not lost. The second point I discussed was the digitisation of Parliament's documents. I am glad to hear that the project is progressing very quickly. It is very important in parliamentary control, in the contributions, in the speeches, in the current questions to the ministers, that we put to Parliament be digitised, so that at any time we can find these facts and not trouble the officials of this House to find the documents, to make photocopies and to have a huge management cost, not only, but also to make our own lives easier to get information at all times. Finally, I also raised the question of parliamentary representation with the number of Members. There are departures from many parties and the Independent Greeks happen to have changed in the order of suggestions to the House. I have therefore raised the question of whether it should be provided for in the Rules of Procedure, directly or indirectly, and the change in representation in the Bureau of Parliament. That was accepted. The rapporteur, Mr Georgiadis, also supported this. I think it's something we need to see. Thank you very much. Happy birthday to everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Last, Mr Carras has asked for the floor. Mr. Carras, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. I wish many years, a good year and a productive year to everyone. I have been a member of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure for fourteen months. I have worked in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. There was indeed a constructive dialogue and I can say democratic. But I have come to a conclusion - you will allow me to speak, Mr President, which I know you have liked, because you have used it too - with a legal twist. I found this to be inconsistent with the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution. Why am I saying that? Maybe it's a consequence of my word. The Constitution refers to the Rules of Procedure, but the Constitution is the supreme law and the Rules of Parliament must go hand in hand. I would like to make some comments, including today's debate. All the Rules of Procedure give precedence to parties, while the Constitution gives precedence to parliamentarians who are proclaiming representatives of the nation and the only right that is mentioned in the parties is to express the Statement of Declaration so that the government can function. However, this has already been transposed into Parliament's Rules of Procedure since late years. I would like to make a few brief remarks. I see it today in Article 1. The government majority is coming and says that because the Independents are more than five and are represented at the Conference of Presidents, we should put another member of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy to ensure that the balance is not disturbed. Is this consistent with the functioning of the House, a parliament which must be a place of dialogue and ideas? The House is not parties, Mr President. Because if we follow the parties, there is no reason for the House to operate, there is no reason why colleagues should complain that the time allocated to them to express their views is limited. So Rule 1, which is now the abstraction of restricting Members' rights, cannot personally support it. I would like to go further and say two, three more words. What were the arguments for the fascination of the voice of the MPs and, in particular, the Independents? I now have a different experience and I hear things that give a deterioration in the role of the Independent Members and, furthermore, transfer the parties into the House, so that the House only operates parties and not as space, as I said before, dialogue. The arguments which have been heard are therefore that the time of the speakers, the parliamentary representatives, is limited. I have been a parliamentary representative and can say, Mr President, that I have also abused my rights and often with the tolerance of the Bureau. It does not, however, mean that this scheme must be maintained. What for? If the bills come either in the form of emergency or urgency as a package, to be voted on by the government majority, Parliament no longer contributes. It doesn't matter. Furthermore, another issue that is raised and I want to say it is this. The limitation of the role of Members also appears with the quota of time-consuming questions and also with the right of the Independent MEP when, on what day, if he submits a timely question, he will be discussed. So here I have to say - and I shall say with all conscientiousness - that not only is the Member's right to exercise parliamentary control, if the Independent in turn waits for him to ask a question, and if he does, I am not speaking of the matter of the presence of the ministers, this has been exhausted - the time for the Independent to exercise parliamentary control. You understand that the Constitution does not go hand in hand with any regulation from the rules in force. Even with the experience I have gained in the short time, the next regulation will not go hand in hand. As much as Mr Voutsis said he will bring Rules of Procedure to the House to update and modernise it, it will not go hand in hand. I think, therefore, that a great debate should be opened on what is the role of the Member. Is there the Member's role? Does it only have a role to cover the parties? Does he have a dialogue role? Does he have a reason for independence of opinion? I am thinking about them. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the proposal is adjourned: 'To amend the Rules of Procedure of the House'. Does this House accept the proposal in principle?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u100	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u101	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u102	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u103	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u104	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u105	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u106	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u107	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u108	The proposal, therefore, 'To amend the Rules of Procedure of the House', was approved by a majority in principle. We are entering the vote on the articles. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u109	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u110	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u111	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u112	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u113	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u114	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u115	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u116	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u117	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u118	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u119	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u120	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u121	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u122	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u123	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u124	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u125	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u126	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u127	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u128	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u129	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u130	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u131	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u132	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u133	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u134	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u135	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u136	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u137	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u138	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u139	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u140	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u141	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u142	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u143	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u144	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u145	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u146	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u147	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u148	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u149	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u150	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u151	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u152	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u153	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u154	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u155	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u156	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u157	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u158	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u159	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u160	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u161	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u162	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u163	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u164	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u165	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u166	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u167	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u168	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u169	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u170	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u171	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u172	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u173	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u174	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u175	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u176	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u177	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u178	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u179	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u180	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u181	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u182	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u183	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u184	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u185	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u186	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u187	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u188	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u189	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the proposal: 'To amend the Rules of Procedure of the House' was accepted in principle and on the articles. Does this House also accept the proposal as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u190	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u191	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u192	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u193	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u194	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u195	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u196	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u197	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u198	The proposal was accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the proposal: "In order to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament - Part Parliamentary (Law 106 A/24.6.1987) and Part II (Law 51A'/10.4.1997), as in force", was accepted by a majority in principle, Articles and all of the following:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u199	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u200	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Ministers for Foreign Affairs, Education, Research and Religion, Administrative Reconstruction, Finance and the Deputy Ministers of Interior and Finance have tabled on 11-1-2017 a draft law: 'Amendment of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs's Code and other provisions'. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u201	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Tourism: "Following the Memorandum of Understanding for Cooperation in Tourism between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt and other provisions". The draft was adopted by a majority in the Standing Committee. It is introduced to the House in accordance with the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of this agreement. There was the vote on the Golden Dawn vote and the vote on the Communist Party of Greece. Therefore, the representatives of the Golden Dawn and the JRC, if they want, can speak as objections. Mrs. Zaroulia, here, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u202	Today we are discussing in plenary the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding on Tourism Cooperation between Greece and Egypt. This memorandum seeks to encourage and promote tourist cooperation between the two countries in various ways for the benefit of both countries. As we also pointed out in our position in committee, in order to have effective and efficient cooperation in the tourism sector - in this respect, with Egypt, but also with any other country - there should be precisely the framework for strengthening our tourism competitiveness vis-à-vis other countries and making our homeland a stable tourist destination. Otherwise, no agreement or a memorandum of understanding and cooperation will have any substance. But how do we mean strengthening tourism? VAT on the islands? With 13% VAT on accommodation in tourist accommodation? In the absence of a national tourism plan? For the year that we are already experiencing many are those who consider that the Greek tourism industry will benefit for another year from the insecurity climate in Turkey. There is already evidence of an increase in prerogatives for 2017. In 2016, our country seems to have benefited to some extent from the negative events in Turkey, be they terrorist attacks, or the embargo that Russia imposed on Turkish products and services. So some of the Germans and other tourists from Western Europe and also Russians were moved from Turkey to our country. Greece had a 4.7% growth rate in all arrivals in January and 5.7% in air arrivals in January - November. On the contrary, Turkey had fallen by 21,35 % in November 2016, compared to the corresponding month of 2015. In the nine months of January - November the arrival fall reached 30.85%, compared to the corresponding period of 2015. They now cease to choose Turkey as tourist destinations in Belgium and the Netherlands. This is something that our country must take further, because until now, unfortunately, Turkey has become a desirable tourist destination for many Europeans. We therefore come to our initial reflection: to strengthen tourism, to strengthen its competitiveness. How will this be done in practice? How will our country become a fixed tourist destination? The Greek tourism product must be enriched with infrastructure, products and alternative forms of tourism. Alternative forms transform the product into more quality, aim to better quality visitors and qualitatively enhance the time to stay at the destination. We must develop tourism in new areas, where infrastructure is available, but at the same time many accommodations have not been built. To make accommodations where the sites have been deprived of the benefits of this overconcentration of decades of tourist development. We should aim to upgrade supply to more qualitative levels. Accommodations and slots that have been developed before present a problem of quality, since many have not been renovated, as well as a lack of service to tourist demand. The accommodation must all be renovated at a higher level and all entrepreneurs must be assisted by ESDP programmes. Competition with other countries is great and we must be able to meet the new needs. As regards infrastructures and ports, the necessary upgrading projects need to be carried out where necessary. At the same time, we should aim to upgrade quality of services, through training for workers and entrepreneurs in tourism. Staff working in tourism must upgrade their knowledge. Higher education schools must be strengthened and not closed. The tourist marketing should be strengthened and upgraded, with the aim of upgrading and promoting our country's dynamic visibility. Tourism should be linked to the local economy, through the development of crafts, goods and through the promotion of local products, such as feta, oil, olives and other goods in our country. Even these, with the policies of the post-government governments, we risk losing them. The horizontal increases also affect all other structures of Greek tourism, affecting catalyticly the rental sectors of cars, transports, tourist buses, conferences, travel agencies, catering etc. The increased flow of illegal immigrants has created a major issue in tourism. According to information from the German Travel Association regarding the first months of this year, traditionally in the first place the preferences of German travellers remain Greek destinations, such as Crete, Rhodes and Corfu. However, the same is not the case with Samos and Kos, Lesvos and Chios, for example, because of the intangible arrival of illegal immigrants, which for these islands is now a regime and will increase the already ugly tourist movement in these islands. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The tripling of VAT last year, its further increase from 23% to 24%, the abolition of HNPH's exemption of hotel units and the imposition of a 0.1% rate, as well as the increase in insurance contributions, have brought and will carry very briefly, many tourist businesses that have been marginally saved in the past five years of the recession, to the limits of survival. Let us highlight and use various forms of tourism: maritime tourism, city tourism, medical tourism, cultural - religious tourism, conference and professional tourism, and of course agricultural tourism and ecotourism. Let us improve and adapt the infrastructure so that all these forms of tourism are possible all year round. Simplification of the licensing and operation procedures for tourist facilities and infrastructures is necessary. There is a constant demand for quality tourism and an increase in tourism expenditure. Total numbers may seem prosperous. However, the great wager of the tourist industry in Greece remains the attraction of quality tourism and the increase in per capita expenditure of the tourist. Let us in every way strengthen tourism for the benefit of our national economy, for the benefit of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u204	Mr President, I would like a little more time because yesterday the Minister spoke to the committee for a long time. The debate is general, which is objective on the basis of the contract and the contract. For this reason, we would like to say a few things about developments. In our assessment, these developments are directly linked to the evolution of the global capitalist economy, the developments in the European Union, the evolution of the crisis in Greece, the intra-imperialist contradictions in the Mediterranean, the imperialist interventions and the consequences they cause for peoples with refugee and immigration beyond death. Developments are linked to the intervention of the urban state and the policies of the capital governments that implement the designs of the monopolistic and business groups by opening up new profit fields through the so-called Memorandum of Cooperation, such as what we are discussing today. All Greek governments have moved and move on the basis of the guidelines of the European Union and the strategy agreed under the various conditions. These conditions condense the needs of European monopolies in the modern conditions of increased international competition. Their common aim is to raise concentration and concentration in all sectors and to create strong business groups that can better cope with international competition. The Greek capital agreements with foreign capital are governed, like all relations between capitalists, at the same time by cooperation and competition, by great disagreements and contradictions. Improving the competitiveness objectives of the tourism sector monopolies is combined with the attack on the rights of workers in the sector. So the Minister has referred to the committee for a long time in his policy and has called for us to be delighted with the success of tourism, with the success of the government. It is right for the Minister to rejoice with developments, since its role, as he suggests, is to create the conditions and the necessary conditions with his policy to make the business groups profitable, as he says. As the committee noted, all ministries cooperated and dealt with the problems with rapid procedures contributing to infrastructure, roads, ports, airports and other actions in the development of tourism. The representative of the Association of large tourist enterprises welcomes the Government for the implementation of all claims they have made and led to a new record of business profits. It puts forward demands for implementation, such as the reduction of corporate taxation, the grant of new development projects, the use of a greater part of the NRP and the possibility of further flexibility. They demand, by highlighting the inhuman face of the system, measures against refugees and immigrants, so that the spear does not fail and that they do not become an obstacle to their profitability. It is characteristic of the expression of a hotel in Crete - I do not know if it was speaking as their representative - when it was discussing transferring part of refugees to the island, which said that entrepreneurship and humanity are opposite. This, of course, has also been confirmed these days with the refusal of hotel owners to go to their homes in the frozen days. Businessmen have one and a half million more reasons for celebrating and rejoice, such as the Minister or the government, as well as the additional arrivals. There have been billions more than that, and the extra billions of profits that have been wasted right now. This course can only go through the rise in the level of exploitation of workers and the increase in pressure on self-employed workers. In the tourism sector, developments have accelerated, leading to even greater exploitation of workers by redundancy, intensified work, by the concentration of the sector through sales, mergers and acquisitions by the application of the whole anti-dumping framework which now touches more and more spaces. In circumstances of intense and hard attack on the monopoly capital at an electronic and international level and with competition increasing, they take an even more dangerous turn. The interests of employers and workers are completely contradictory, conflicting, in no case do they. Tourism profits are recorded on the ever deeper exploitation of tourism workers. A series of laws passed by the Greek governments, which are maintained by the European Union's current decisions and decisions, strengthened the trend towards concentration, concentration and strengthening of monopolistic groups. The capitalists of the state have made the most use of this legal and institutional framework to increase the degree of exploitation. For example, the departure of many hotel owners from their organizations, especially in the large tourist areas, is accompanied by a vertical drop in average wages, in most cases within the limits of the National General Association of Labour and even below. Tourism workers are living the consequences of growth by generalizing elastic work, by one-day contracts, with black work, undeclared, uninsured, uninsured, insecured, with extensive intensification, by circumventing fixed daily working hours, by violating weekly work with multi-employment, by abolishing from the SYRIZA Government and the last right, this right to take this one-and-two years in the profession. As far as wage levels and the general rights of workers in the sector are concerned, because I said that I will bring you in shock, Madam Minister, we must say that from EUR 885.69 which was in 2012, today the salary is at EUR 586 mixed or at EUR 511 for young people under the age of twenty-five. In other words, in order for everyone to understand what we are talking about, we are talking about 300 less than a month less than 450 euros a month for workers in this sector that you are saying that they are developing rapidly, with the endless overtime that they are imposing on workers, with the abolition of redundancies in case of redundancies, since the trial period under the law of the Government of New Democracy and the PASOK went to one year from two months ago. And this arrangement, like all other overthrows, is maintained today. Generalized apprenticeship forms an even cheaper labour force in tourism, since pay at best does not exceed EUR 300 a month. The Government with a tool for the OAED and the labour subsidy programmes, as it claims, further increases the profitability of the business groups, since it further reduces so-called labour costs and grants a total of billions of labour requirements to capital. It is not enough that the middle-aged one formed by business groups, not only with tolerance but also with the government's guidance, overturned even the arrangements that existed for aid from unemployment by reducing benefits. Today we are discussing unemployment benefits in Rhodes, Kos, Corfu, everywhere. The government has given off payments to the unemployed in these benefits, to these poor benefits for these workers. So, from the annual income, Minister, of the workers who were EUR 5,300 for example in 2012, today is 3,066 their annual income, that is, they spend today with an average of EUR 255 per month for the whole year. So, how do you enjoy this development of tourism? Who's she favouring? This is the development, therefore, of a huge profit on the one hand, for business groups and poverty, impoverishment on the other. This situation will worsen in the face of the assessment, the unfolding of the anti-population government's policy on collective bargaining, collective redundancies, the continuation of the attack on labour rights and trade liberties. Tourism and holidays in this development path you are serving capitalism are a luxurious commodity and not a social right. In this context, more and more will be deprived of this possibility in vacation and recreation. As time is indeed short, the Greek-Egypt Monument of Cooperation is addressed to business groups, to tourist agencies, to tourist agencies that are invited to promote tourist packages, to combine visits to Greece and Egypt. It provides for business partnerships with an investment facility in one and the other countries, the promotion of business interests through the assistance and partnership of the public sector with the private sector. As the Minister said attributes, we look forward to the five million tourists from Egypt to fill even more of their vaults by employers. The interests of business groups in Greece and Egypt are therefore at odds with the interests of workers in the two countries, but also with any other country that we sign such a cooperation agreement with them. We are voting 'no' in the convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, during the debate on the bill in the committee responsible a ministerial amendment under number 890/1 was accepted. The amendment, incorporated into the third article of this bill, has already been tabled by Mr Xydakis. So open a list of speakers. I would first like to ask if anyone who objects to the amendment would want to take the lead. It is the Golden Dawn with the "present", the New Democracy, subject to the JRC as well. Mr. Xydakis, do you have any objections?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u206	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u207	Are you referring to the extension of time for "subjects"?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u208	Yes, in the amendment that we voted on in committee. Mr. Ilias Panagiotaros has the floor from the Golden Dawn for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Mr President. The Golden Dawn in committee through the special speaker, Eleni Zarulia, said that we will state in this amendment 'the present'. And we want to explain this 'at present'. "The present" because, as you all know, there are many categories of new civil servants, such as policemen, who are obliged from now on to submit a statement "from now on". And so far, because it's a complex process, many of them have not been able to complete their papers and get out what is necessary for the documents. That is why, Mr President, we are saying 'at present' to this extension that is being given on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, Mr. Panayotare. Mr Bukkokouros has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Mr President. We have expressed some reservations to the committee, which I would like to explain, initially, that Parliament has legislated that the statements of the assets of all the debtors should be submitted by 31 December each year. Of course, extension for technical reasons until 15 January, for reasons of lack of information to the parties concerned by the Public Financial Services, may be justified. However, the extension until 13 April, which is given by Amendment 890/1 tabled by the Deputy Minister for Justice and justified it on the grounds of a number of arguments, is, for our part, considered to be too great. It was enough, that is, a period until the end of February. He said the Deputy Minister of Justice in this House was a matter of clearing up the decision of the Council of State where some people had appealed. This, of course, is also a confirmation of what we all know, that the decision of the Council of State has been adopted. But, Mr Deputy Minister of Justice, as a former top judicial officer in the country you should know - and you know that, I am sure - that on issues of more general interest at the request of the parties concerned to the President and the rapporteur of the relevant section of the Council of State, the clearing of the decision, which we are discussing and for which the extension is given, could have been made in a shorter time. My speech and my remarks, Mr Minister, are not bureaucratic. You should be aware that in recent years with populism in our country both in society, but even within Parliament, there have been forces seeking opportunities in order to influence the prestige and unleash the image of our parliamentaryism, our culture and ultimately the very democracy. Parliament must also protect itself against such moves and similar actions. After all, it is of great importance what we are voting on, but it is equally important that what image is being emitted to society, for the reasons I have just mentioned. You told the committee, Mr Deputy Minister of Justice, that you hope you do not need any further extension due to the fact that it coincides with the amendment on 13 April. It's Easter days, we know. It is a large Wednesday, April 13, 16, is Easter, and we hope that we do not need a new extension. What needs to be made clear in all respects, however, is that this extension, which we regard as excessive, in our view, is neither a demand nor a demand from the political world. You have, of course, told the committee that it must be made clearer for the purpose of protecting the image of the culture and democracy itself. In the end, we shall vote for the amendment, Mr President, because we as a New Democracy believe that, in matters of transparency of the functioning of our culture, there must be a spirit of consensus, for these very reasons, in addition to constructive criticism, in order to protect the image of our culture, parliamentaryism and democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Katsotis has the floor, and then Mrs Triantafyllos, Mr Xydakis and Mr Constantinople will speak. And at the end, the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u213	I would like the floor, Mr President, because there has been a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u214	Wait a minute, Mr Katsotis, for the Minister to intervene for a moment. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u215	Thank you. It is a question of clarifying what I shall say. I don't mean you didn't understand. Well, I guess I didn't express myself right and there's been some misunderstanding. I repeat, I may not have expressed myself well. I didn't say that if I had to, we'd give out on Easter first. I said it might be necessary if the scavenger's late. The decision will come out of the S.E., but we all know the S.E.L.D. Sometimes, and now, lately, he's been delaying cleansing too much. Having only a leak of judgment, as usual in some supreme courts without the reasoning, as you can see, does not make it easier for anyone. The S.T.E. He hasn't decided yet. He's suspended a deposit. We need to explain that, too. We don't have a decision yet, we're waiting for her. I have made it clear to the committee, and I will say it again, and as many times as it takes, that the political world is happy to present you anywhere. Some classes - and I have even kept a reservation because of my old status, because I did not want to turn against my old colleagues - show an excessive sensitivity to their personal data, even though they have so far submitted in writing where you were and there has been no question of it. And I would like to point out that for these charges that have been filed at the S.H.E. and insulted the joint ministerial decision there is no post on the Internet. So their concerns are unjustified. I avoided raising the issue because of my old capacity, because I did not want to think that I was confronted with my old colleagues, but I made it clear, and I again made it clear that the political world had no objection. The political world, the parts of Parliament, the politicians are happy to submit and have not raised any objections. They are in transparency and they are willing to take part in this effort. Those who delay electronic submission are other outside the political world. I hear the canals will follow. I don't want to make a combination of judges and canals. I want to believe that the motives are different. I repeat, therefore, that the extension was given only because there is still a decision, not a laxative, in order to make this clear. He doesn't even have a decision. Temporary order has only been given by the S.H.E. and suspension. So in the quarter that I said, I think it would be reasonable for the Greek data to issue the decision and for it to be cleaned up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u216	Thank you, Minister. Mr Katsotis, who has been kept and after the speech Mr Xydakis, Mrs Triantafyllou, Mr Constantinople, Mr Javaras, is here to close the Minister. Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u217	Thank you, Mr President. As far as the amendment is concerned, we have, of course, retained a reservation. It appears here that the government will, on a case-by-case basis, implement a decision of the CCT which talks about suspension of the deposit of the place you had. And with this decision, which has not yet been cleaned up - as they say - you are going to implement this decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u218	He hasn't been tried.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u219	He hasn't been tried. But a temporary order has been given. That's what we're saying. Temporary order. With this extension you are therefore coming to implement a provisional order of the Council of State. Others, however, decisions of the Council of State concerning, if you wish, wages of workers or the right of workers, you do not come here, as you do with this issue of 'from the outset', which are indeed requests for specific groups that are liable to deposit 'from the outset'. It is not about facilitating workers and other people's bodies. We in this sense are voting 'at present' in this particular amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Xydakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Mr President. There has been a relatively satisfactory debate in the committee on the amendment brought by the Minister. At the first moment we said to make it easier to extend for practical reasons, but also for substantive political reasons. I heard Mr Katsotis. No decision has been taken. The Minister explained it. Temporary order shall not be a judicial decision. It's kind of an insurance measure. It'll be given. There's a slow process. But until this decision comes out, and until it is cleaned up - personally, I have never understood what 'cleaned' means in the courts in the times of the computers, at least, we are not in the time of Bouvar and Peking, which have been penned and wiped out with sandals - there will be a disturbance in parity and isopoliticalism. Some professional groups and MPs - who are not a professional group, but represent the political world - have submitted and the judges will be out. That creates a problem. The extension is facilitated so that both the political world and the judiciary and the professional groups in charge of making statements can all go together. It creates a homogeneous environment. On the other hand, we hear the objections or mistrust expressed by the judges, and I think that some necessary clarifications and safeguards can be given at that time. If state officials, such as judges, do not believe in the credibility of state systems, i.e. electronic application, we need to see this. We need to see whether safeguards, encryption and system security are parallel to tax systems, the Ministry of Finance, the banks' systems. We trust all our personal data in various electronic systems. We should therefore see whether this system security is the same. Because if it is, the conversation is over. Neither published nor uploaded nor any one takes a hammer. The Members of Parliament who are posted shall not be posted either. There's nothing. They're afraid of the human factor, if any of them will leak, will they transmit evidence? This is, however, in advance mistrust and suspicion against the overall state system. So we as parliamentarians, who are elected, must ensure that there is safe procedures, that there is confidence in these institutions and that we give a message to the citizens who are watching us. Citizens are watching. They got us in the microscope. It should all be made transparent. From there on, in the technical part, they've heard - and in the press now - that it's a time-consuming process, that it's difficult. Good. We have a little room to see, to improve them. However, the digitisation of the process, even though it is brutal and time-consuming, since this year, has created a digital database. From there on, we will have a lot of tools at our disposal so that selective checks and cross-checks can be carried out and used, of course, in the interests of security and security of personal confidentiality. We're in favour of this. From there on, I think it's a step. It's a step. In "wherever you had" the written, as it was submitted, was diverse. In addition to the publications of Members and Ministers, in the rest we know very well that tens of thousands or hundreds of dossiers from the statements are in some public service warehouses and the Attachment. In fact, energy is being done, but it is not possible and no control is being carried out. We therefore expect to show this confidence, we expect criticism and improvements to this system and see what will happen by the end of the deadline. I think that only improved steps can be taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Triantafel has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, Mr President. I won't need all the time. He said, Mr Xydakis, we have also told the committee that we are giving the facility - although we have thoughts - not only because a procedure is being put in place, not only because an independent authority is directly put in place, but there are concerns about Parliament itself and its functioning. We therefore believe that the prolongation contributes to the equilibrium, and of course we consider and insist on the decision on transparency. This government has decided on a conflict with the phenomenality against the phenomena of phenomena of phenomena that have existed over the past few years, with the two parties that have ruled this place mainly since post-Civilisation. I will finish by just making a little mention of the ratification itself. The need for national central planning, which we mentioned both in our committee and in our suggestion and in the tourism sector, is not only perceived by the Ministry of Tourism, but there are concrete efforts and actions by the current leadership of the Minister and the Ministry in general, which cure the pathogens of the past. I don't want to expand. I shall mention just one small example. We had mentioned as very important pathogen - but not, as the most important one - the medium and small tourist business that was really destroyed. There are concrete actions by this government and by this leadership of the Ministry of Tourism, which support the small and medium-sized business, tourism. From there on, there are too many issues to be done. In fact, tourism is a social asset. However, not all people are societal. Efforts must be made to do this. There must be a great deal of effort in relation to work. We are sure that both the government and the Ministry of Tourism will work very hard on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, my colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance 'Compulsory audit of the annual and consolidated financial statements, public supervision over the audit work and other provisions'. Mr Constantinople has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, Mr President. I have listened to my colleague - and seeing in the ministerial seats - about the party domination of previous years, I thought he said it about the Minister, who also took part in other governments in previous years. But I think he hadn't seen the ministerial benches.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u226	We just have a different view of politics.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u227	I would like to say to you that governments are mainly judged by whether they have learned from the mistakes of the past and from whether they continue to make the same mistakes - that is the main thing - that is, if the government, through this whole process, can go ahead and give citizens a real solution to the issues that we are discussing. We first said to the committee - and we asked the Minister and he was very clear to be absolutely honest - that the citizens should know that this matter was not coming from the parties, from the political world. The Minister was very clear about this. There is one decision, there are procedures in the Council of State for which we cannot be a la carte, one to respect them and one not to respect them. I'm not going to reason now if it takes a month, two months, three months. But there is one point that the Council of State and all the institutions must see. In doing so, there cannot be two or three categories of transparency. At the moment there are police officers, doctors, politicians - above all we must - judges, canalarchs, etc., who must be treated on an equal footing. I understand that they must be guaranteed - and it is the state's responsibility - these elements, which must not be used by anyone. From there on, however, everyone must be on equal terms. I mean, from the police officer to the Prime Minister, from the judge to the canalarch, the state has to deal with them the same. That is why we have had no reservation from the start and said 'yes' to the extension. You will see it depending on how the Council of State is going to proceed. But the whole political world, all democratic parties, must send out the message that everyone must testify to their "possibly obedience". There should be a state guarantee, but no one can operate under another regime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u228	Thank you. Mr. Javarras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u229	Mr President, it is true today that the government - and it seems that the majority - has a tendency to avoid the regulatory approach of reality, which we are calling for with this amendment to regulate as a Parliament. It is confined to or liked - I would say - an imaginary indication or promotion of a number of issues which have nothing to do with what is the problem today. I say this, and I also take the floor from the words which the President of this House previously addressed to the House himself. I would like to believe that what he said about the government's 'competence', in fact, also to legislate on having an accompanying role - I want to believe, I repeat - they have shown a more broad understanding of the issues that have actually become a routine, as he said. In any case, apart from the imaginary expression of various demands, and in addition to the accession to what we would call the'regulatory role of things', that is to say, to come permanently and to legislate, because things have evolved to such an extent and to such an extent as to impose a certain degree of legislative approach on us, there is - as I said before - the regulatory approach to matters. So, here - and I address the Deputy Minister - and SYRIZA and the government too, have had all the comfort in dealing with the issue that today with this amendment we are asked to regulate, when since May 2015 - if I am not deceived it must have been on 12 May 2015 - if I am not deceived - by a SYRIZA MEP asked the European Parliament a question on the issues of electronic'subjects' and ownership. And there, from the Commissioner responsible, Mr Moscovisi, he received an answer which precisely involves the difficulty with which today - or at least in much better time, as I said - the House had the obligation to be involved. And this difficulty has to do with the fact that yes it is necessary to function electronic "from where you were", but always with respect for the principles of confidentiality and privacy. That is exactly what the Competent Authority for Personal Data Protection has said and given its opinion. So, today, when we are calling for us to continue, in essence, to unite the government's inability to organise, operate and implement a system that ensures transparency in the public space, in fact, we admit that the government has failed to fulfil its commitment and, above all, to respond to the colleague - who is far from being able in a serious way to meet her commitments, that is to say, she, who has made her claim that this is supposedly for the first time in Greece, supports transparency. That is why the consent of the New Democracy is simple and contains the following clear meaning: we agree on this extension, because precisely because we are the first ones to recognize and have raised the preventive action of the administration and all the state institutions in the fight against corruption on top of the issue and call for public life. It is a privileged instrument in this struggle that is the "outside" and, above all, any measure relating to the instability of transparency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Psarian - last speaker - now the Minister has the floor. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please, ladies and gentlemen. Here you go, Mr. Fisherian.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u231	Thank you very much, Mr President. On the substance, I do not want to go into that. As a river and as a human we are and I am in favour of any attempt to modernise and improve the system at all levels and in all areas. Any modernisation, Europeanisation, whatever is institutionalised and with which we are leaving the established and what we have done so far and what we have been conducting and the practices we have had so far, we are always in agreement and voting. We're the first to ask. So on the substance, in the digitisation of the 'underground' and in all these things, we agree and succeed. However, I would like to tell you that if we had a debate on these matters exclusively with a bill of detail, we would all have the opportunity to discuss in detail and say where we agree, where we disagree and what we are proposing. But when such amendments come out of a system which is very serious - as it now says about postponement and extension of terms and postponing to digitisation, etc. - these things - in essence, I say again - are lying down to who we are. This debate must take place on the substance, at a particular time, with a predetermined agenda, in a draft law regulating such matters very seriously. On the other hand, this government, to a multiple extent by the previous governments, is teasing amendments to contracts with Zimbabwe in contracts with other countries on the subject of college behaviour. In everything that goes down to us, and when we discuss any convention, we are taking too serious amendments on very serious issues that concern the country. This practice is 100% convicted. It has to stop. If we were to put something urgently and exceptionally into the day after tomorrow, and once in twenty, we had to put one topic like this, to discuss it. Exceptionally, that's also exceptional. But if we do this, because that is how we feel, and because we want to do various arrangements, or to postpone things or a number of things to do with them - the so-called one - is bad practice. We cannot, in every debate in this House, bet on two hundred and fifty amendments on very serious issues. That is why, on some points, we would agree and vote with both hands. But in postponements and extensions and "Let's see it later" we totally disagree. However, since this practice has become a custom in our everyday lives, that is to say, to slap amendments to various secondary bills or sanctions, that is why we will not vote on, we will remain in'residents'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u232	Mr President, I would just like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u233	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u234	I would like to say to Mr Psarian that on the serious issue of digitisation there has been a debate in the House and you have also voted'residents' in your honor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u235	We are talking about the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u236	The amendment was an extraordinary event that emerged. On December 19th was considered and the provisional order was issued on December 21st, after appeal by the judges who said that their submissions should be suspended and not digitisation. The digitalisation continues to take place normally. So the Potami had voted in a really thorough debate both in the committees and here in digitisation. So I think it's satisfactory. Now, in what Mr Javarras said, I will admit that in general I have - and the doctors forgive me - a disobedience to doctors. Maybe because I'm afraid if I go, they'll find me too much. But now that I'm gone, I'm going to go to the doctor, because I have a weakness of understanding today. I didn't understand what Mr. Javarras said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u237	I'll explain.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u238	Explain to me, but I'm afraid I won't understand why I have...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u239	I've asked you a question, Minister, since you want me to explain...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u240	Why are you interrupting me? Why are you interrupting me, Mr. Javarra? You want to step up my confusion? I confessed I didn't feel well and I'm going to go to the doctor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u241	The fact that you're always confused, I get it. Mr President, may I have a word on the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u242	Mr. Javarra, please. Let the Minister finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u243	But he's personally addressing me, without having the right, and he's bothering me to interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u244	It is clear that you will be asking for the floor on personal matters after which you will be given the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u245	He's got a obsession with my face.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u246	I didn't address you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u247	There's the Rules of Procedure. There is Rule 64 of the Rules of Procedure. Read it and you'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u248	Mr. Javarra, I'll give you the floor on staff later. Minister, go on, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u249	I have nothing with Mr. Javarra, nothing personal, nothing personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u250	Me neither.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u251	I just boldly confessed that I didn't understand. That's not bad.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u252	Not bad at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u253	I hurt myself, I have a weakness of concentration. I even said I'd go to the doctors. What else can I do? I would therefore like to say to Mr Javarra what I said and to Mr Psariano, that the amendment tabled was an undeniable necessity after the development and application. It was not a question, it was not a question, we were not going to ball anything, nor should we hide anything. As for transparency, Mr Javarra, I would like to ask you: Do you remember what you voted for in digitisation as opposed to the Potami? I'll stop here, but I'm in the mood of anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u254	Mr. Javarra, you have the floor. But if possible, briefly.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u255	The fact that the Minister does not understand is his problem. But I insist very clearly that for several months now - and the Minister knows very well - I have tabled as a Member within the framework of parliamentary control a question for a specific question, and I have told him that, because nothing has yet been done - see why you will find yourself in the need not to respond to your obligations, if you have not taken into account the new data that have arisen from the opinion of the competent authority, but also from what I had the honour to report to this House beforehand. So I say this because the Deputy Minister himself obviously does not deal with the answers he gives and I justify them. It may have a workload, there is the Office of Parliamentary Control at the Ministry. And it seems that Mr. Deputy Minister is just signing. It's good. It's his right. And after they trust him, let him continue to do so. But you will allow me, Mr President, to say that the Rules of Procedure are systematically violated by the Ministers. In breach of Rule 66 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, where a speaker is forbidden to speak to Parliament, but only to the House in general, he has addressed me personally. And because I answered him, he was disturbed because I interrupted him. I have no reason, since he wants us to have a live dialogue, because that is the essence of democracy. The essence of democracy is based on orality, that is to say, the directity that arises from this orality and which allows the person who speaks to be addressed to the person from whom he expects an answer. So don't bother, Minister. This is democracy. If you can't stand it, at least respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u256	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u257	Don't comment, Minister. This is a parliament. Perhaps that is why I referred to the President's words. Yes, you are. And you've come up with some sense of why? Because you are ignoring that people's sovereignty is being exercised in this Chamber here in a real and symbolic way. And this popular sovereignty is exercised on the basis of the principle of representation which connects the people with us and not the government, which governs because it has the confidence of the House. These are well-established principles, they are constitutionally established principles. It's conquests.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u258	Mr. Javarra, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u259	...of the Enlightenment in which you too believe. I shall conclude, Mr President. [[Noise in the Chamber]] And that is why I will be beg you with decency to come to him here...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u260	No, Mr. President. What's he saying? Am I not a decent man?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u261	Mr. Javarra, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u262	I shall conclude, Mr President. I'm sorry, what did you say? Well, your level is well known.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u263	I'm sorry, did we say anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u264	Is it possible to hear four sides of protest? Let's finish, let's see what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u265	It characterizes you, and of course I do not need to comment on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u266	What did we tell you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u267	You said a word...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u268	You're done, Mr. Javarra. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u269	The Minister of Tourism, Mr. Helena Koudoura, has the floor. Madam Minister, please on the bill. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. Javarra, Mr. Panayotar, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u270	Mr President, there is no question of this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u271	Let the Minister speak about her bill, please. We're talking about this another time. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u272	You will allow me to speak about the bill and make a more general reference, given that in the committee yesterday, things have been discussed which distort reality, mislead public opinion and create a complete confusion in this House. In order to clarify exactly what the Ministry of Tourism and, of course, the Government of SYRIZA - Independent Greeks, I will make a more general reference to the success of the national tourism policy that has already yielded excellent results and is particularly disturbing to the Dedicated Anti-Policy. In circumstances of intense competition in the global economy and in the midst of rapid geopolitical changes and very unpleasant - I would say - events affecting tourism internationally, Greece remains a safe, stable, friendly country and is today a strong proposal as a globally attractive destination for holidays and investment. In the two-year period 2015-2016, therefore, the growth rate of Greek tourism was higher than the global average of tourist development, and this process did not occur at any random, ladies and gentlemen, nor was it due to a juncture, but it was not the result of other forces than of a specific national tourism policy designed, with targeted actions that we planned, we implemented in 2015, we implemented in 2016 and we actually have excellent results and huge success. I would remind you, therefore, that in 2015, when we took over, our tourism was at the expense of strong pressures, under the constant threat of Grexit, economic suffocation, hard political negotiations with partners, two elections, referendum, a continuously negative attack by abroad and our competitors that caused a blow to our country's image. In spite of all the adversities, we managed these crises in our tourism with great success that has been recognised, and I stress this internationally by the World Tourism Organization and the General Secretary of the Organization of World Tourism, Mr Taleb Rifai, who has repeatedly said about Greece in his public speeches that it is an example to imitate an excellent crisis management that overturned the negative image and managed to come out successfully and with historical arrival record. We really did the highest numbers. We've achieved a history record of arrivals and revenues. 2016 was a record year after a record year. The arrivals touch the twenty - and - seven - million, the largest number of visitors to Greece so far. And that is not what we say, but all the official figures that the Ministry has, of course, and not some inaccuracies that are heard by anti-population that want to cause confusion. And, of course, it is well known that her tactics are attempting to hide the truth, to undermine governmental work, but also to distort reality and, in this case, the positive course of Greek tourism. I would like to stress that this is very dangerous, because they are attacking the whole tourist world, businessmen and professionals and, of course, the economy of Greece, because tourism is 20% of GDP, we are taking a great breath of the revenues that come and create too many jobs. So I would say that they are a little careful in their statements and in the way they are trying to distort reality and mislead public opinion. So in a very difficult economic and geopolitical context from outside and unscrupulous factors that Greece cannot control and there is an international concern, I would say, with constant unfavourable events in our neighbouring countries, we have not only managed, as I said before, to reverse the negative climate, but also managed to be credible, to see us with confidence, with stability, with security and a country that is friendly, not only to choose Greece for their holidays, but also to be active in business. We are therefore very pleased that the national tourism policy that we planned in four years' time has given so fast, so great, many and successful results. The first example is the prolongation of the period. For the first time, the SYRIZA Government - Independent Greeks made it a reality. In July - August we had extremely high performance and the months of September - October - November were the best months of all time. We started the summer escalation since March, we completed it in November, and in the past it ended in September. This was translated into full details of hotels in Athens and Thessaloniki 100% and in the rest of Greece, an average of 85%. It is very important to say that we have opened new Greek destinations to benefit local communities. We opened up new high-income and travel budget markets, because we are really interested in bringing quality tourism and that's what we did, opening up the Middle East, spectacular arrivals, strengthening Russia last year's serious financial problem, and today is 30% up, strengthening Canada and America, which we also had very important arrivals and revenues, as they are markets that were in the past, because there were direct flights from Olympics, we had a very great influx of tourists and for a time there was a crackdown. You claim me, with tough negotiations, with a programme, with business plan and action plan and with the help of the family - and I thank them through my heart for that - we have not only been able to fly an airline from America to Greece, as was the case until 2015, but we have managed to bring three American airlines and triple the arrivals in Greece. I want to say about the thematic tourism that an effort had been launched in the past and completed under our own governance in 2015-2016 with very targeted legislative interventions. Problems have been solved that years and created terrible problems for businessmen and professionals in the tourist industry. Solutions were given so that they could make use of all this in our everyday life - because that is where the difference will really be - and we will do our vision "365 days a year of tourism" which our government has once again stressed - SYRIZA - ANEL and our ministry succeeded. And we are currently spending the period December - January a record move with high completeness in urban winter destinations, with double digits for the first time in all these years that we have been trying to develop our tourism product. For the first time, there was a discreet increase in internal Greek tourism - which is hidden and does not emerge from Acoustic Opposition - since we also did social tourism programmes. We strengthened them together with the Ministry of Labour, Ms Rania Antonopoulou, the commander of OAED, in order to support Greek tourism as well as the islands of the northern Aegean that received the pressure from the refugee region. When we ensure tourist packages of thematic tourism, then, direct links not only from capital capitals abroad to our capitals and our islands but also from regions to Greece - creating new popular destinations, we manage to strengthen and stimulate economics and all the local communities from the important markets that we have opened, such as the Middle East, China and South Korea. And what we are trying to do, however, is to support all these European emerging markets, such as Poland, Romania and Serbia. In 2017 we also open India. And in all this environment, all these memoranda - like the current one that we are voting on today - are to be able to increase tourism to Greece, make synergies, make the Mediterranean a strong choice. And we are the ones who give the opportunity, the message, if you like, symbolism, to have stability, security, peace in our region. The press is inaccurate that because there is a geopolitical problem and the other countries have lost, if you like, tourist inputs, Greece should have taken a huge piece of tourists. That's inaccurate. We all know very well that Greece is building, at least, with our own government policy, relationships firm so that this tourist who will come, come again, become faithful, strengthen the quality of our services and create a tourist stream that will always choose us, ignoring what conditions exist in our geopolitical environment or in our neighbourhood. The fact that our neighborhood is affected is against us is not good. The share of tourism that comes to the eastern Mediterranean, when there is insecurity, moves away. Greece has therefore achieved huge success in 2016 so that it can bring these excellent results that have exceeded every expectation. And even if you want, the private sector considers and makes announcements that Greek tourism is a champion. To date, 2017 shows that it has a two-digit increase. And with regard to the press in Britain, Austria, Germany, Scandinavia, they give titles such as, "Greece celebrates the great return", "Expansion of arrival demand", "60% prevalences in Austria", "40% prevalences in the Netherlands". With regard to the cruise in 2016, because this was also said in committee, we did a great deal of struggle to maintain and trust us by private, multinational companies, who naturally decide on the basis of their interests whether to put more ships or less, given that there was a huge turmoil in Europe and in the ports of Turkey or Egypt or Tunisia, which might have been intended to go and decided that due to these unpleasant developments they would not go. It was a great success, therefore, to increase 2016 on the cruise. The Civic Opposition comes and once again distorts and hides the fact that in 2017 if there will be a reduction in possible cruises, this is due to the fact that there is a riot in Europe and, if you want, concern for all these tourists who choose from distant countries, such as America or Canada, the cruise holidays given that they are closed one and two years ago and of course there can be a reduction. For our part, however, because we have also in the cruise of a national strategy, we have managed to make agreements which will enable us to support our cruise dynamically when, before our own government, there was not even a cruise programme, it was on the automatic pilot with a complete indifference. A very important part for the cruise is the fact that we have also created the Cruise Committee involving all operators with the Maritime Ministry, which will, if you will like, give us a greater opportunity to see how in the coming years we will build this type of tourism, which we think can actually bring a great deal of revenue to Greece and can - apart from being already within the three very important options - become a basic option. In yesterday's reports again, the spokesperson for the Civilian Representation was inaccurate. He said for these 27.5 million that official data from "Eleftherios Venizelos", from Civil Aviation, from airports, road tourism, tour operators abroad, our EOT offices, the Ministry itself, the EOT with its investigations, and all other official bodies are mistaken and that there is no record of tourism. But, with some inaccuracies, he began to say that there are some of the Skopje that come, stay one day, go, don't know if we can count on them tourists, say there are immigrants Greeks who come and whether they are counting as tourists. It's really dangerous what they're trying to do. Because, as I have said, not only do they distort the truth, but they show an empathy for the national tourism product, which is tourism. I insist that we leave micro-political and micro-political here and without good evidence to say inaccurate and distort the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u273	Madam Minister, I think you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u274	Sure. They had to be answered, Mr President, that. Because these, unfortunately, are reproducible.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u275	You're not a Qualified Opposition. You're government.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u276	Mr. Bukkaro, let me handle this conversation. Please. Minister, you say interesting things, but don't forget today's subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u277	You're constantly fighting. Where'd the income go? Can you tell us the revenues for 2016?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u278	Mr. Bukkaro, please, let me get in touch with you. Will you insist? We have a specific issue, Minister, today, namely the Greek-Egypt agreement. It is interesting what you are saying, but it is on the whole tourist issue. How long will your speech last? Is that possible?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u279	A little more and I'll be done. Because, Mr President, unfortunately, the committee has heard things which cannot be answered and because, here in the House, not only the House, but also the Greek people, must be informed. Because real facts are distorted and it passes a picture that affects Greek tourism, affects entrepreneurs, professionals and is very serious about our national economy. So I have to restore the truth. In the context of this effort, Egypt's memorandum of cooperation is also a memorandum of understanding. Because Egypt is a new market we opened up. It is our Government that supported this bilateral agreement. They are visitors of high purchasing power and economic surface. Because Egypt has about five million people with a very large income, traveling abroad not only for recreation, but also for business trips. And because these bilateral relations make partnerships much more specific and not in a more general context, such as tripartite relations or, more generally, contacts and agreements, on our own initiative on 21 February 2016 with my counterpart, we signed this memorandum that we are voting on today. The most important thing is not only to increase flows from Egypt to Greece, but it is also important to strengthen entrepreneurship. I will close here, saying that in 2016 our investments are very important. There's an investment explosion. A hundred forty-two proposals were submitted from four and five hotels, as well as from special tourist infrastructures, which have to do with existing ones, as well as upgrades to modernise them. Because, as we said before, we are very interested in quality and development law, we must stress that it has some 40% of tourist investment and around EUR 300 million have been put in funds for tourism, in order to strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises and that everyone can meet the requirements of this product that is competitive and that Greece has successfully achieved us in these two years to record historical records and arrivals and revenues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u280	Madam Minister, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u281	I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying a proposal on revenue. It is the first time that some elements that have seen the light of publicity have huge discrepancies, while the methodology is stable for years. This is the first time in 2016 that has escaped from the limits of the statistical error and the discrepancies are so great that the Ministry, EOT has a meeting next week to see why there are so great differences in what was published. It's also very important...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u282	Thank you, Minister. You're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u283	I'm closing, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u284	You're in 20 minutes, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u285	I've explained I've asked for some time, because...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u286	But you asked for tolerance from ten minutes. Tolerance has been, but you've reached twenty minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u287	I'd be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u288	In committee, we have asked you and you have agreed that we will hold a special meeting on tourism policy issues. Do you have to tell everything today?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u289	Yes, Mr President, because things have been heard, which...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u290	But this is not the agenda, what are we to do now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u291	Things have been heard that distort the truth, and unfortunately we are under attack, without any step being able to talk. So this is what the Greek people need to know. So for the last time: as most opposition parties support this possibility of having national cohesion and supporting the national product, I would also like to see Axiety Opposition, instead of undermining and distorting the positive course of tourism, coming with proposals constructively and not misleading public opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u292	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u293	Mr President, on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u294	Proceedings? About what?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u295	Mr President, today we are discussing the ratification of a memorandum...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u296	I know, you're gonna break open doors now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u297	There has been a violation of the Rules of Procedure. I request the floor for a minute on a point of order, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u298	Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u299	For a minute, Mr President, to clarify a few things. Today we are discussing the ratification of a memorandum of cooperation with the friendly country of Egypt. The Minister has committed a political slip. He took advantage of the consent of Officer Opposition precisely for the Memorandum of Cooperation in Parliament's committees and came here to make cheap propaganda against Officer Opposition, generally speaking about tourism. The Minister said specifically, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u300	Yeah, but don't repeat it...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u301	Yeah, but they have to answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u302	Mr. Comrade...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u303	Please, Mr. President. He said 2016 is a record year after a record year, which was in 2015. Why, Minister, in 2015 wasn't a record year after a record year that was in 2014? Who set up the bases for the lifting of Greek tourism? And in any case, you have been repeatedly provoked to provide the revenue data, because it is the revenue from tourism that shows the true course of tourism. And revenues in 2016 are obviously reduced. These are your achievements!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u304	Mr President, I would ask you to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u305	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u306	No way.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u307	No, Mr President, that cannot be the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u308	No, I'm not giving you the floor, because...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u309	No, I'm sorry. There can be no inaccuracies in this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u310	Madam Minister, I'm so sorry. At the beginning of this sitting almost all the parties to the House admitted that the situation of violations of the Rules of Procedure could not continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u311	Who violated the procedure, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u312	What do you want, Mrs. Triantafel?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u313	I want the floor on a point of order, just like Mr Bukokouros.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u314	Let me finish, then.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u315	Mr President, I will leave and vote this afternoon.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u316	Mr. Cammene, at least help me. There was a speech from the Minister who left the subject, to the perpetual advantage of it. It's okay, but let's move on. But if you now wish to respond to the reply of the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Minister, we will not proceed. Don't you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u317	No, Mr President, I will say a phrase.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u318	But don't you get it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u319	I want the floor to say a phrase.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u320	Honestly, I'm telling you, well-meaningly, help us finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u321	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u322	What do you want, Mr. Xydakis, now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u323	Let's finish this, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u324	If you want to finish it, help me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u325	Mr President, I'm leaving. I'm not going to be a fool anymore.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u326	Mr Kammene, on behalf of the Bureau, you are aware of the responsibility we must all have.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u327	Please, Mr President, just one proposal to put in order what has been heard. Things have been said in committee with this Saddam Hussein, which the Greek people have heard, and there have also been statements in press releases and even inaccurate statements. So I, Mr President, have to restore these inaccuracies. That is why I had to have this debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u328	Excuse me, Minister, you're wrong. You have no right to have this debate now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u329	Madam Minister, it's a distortion you're doing. You're gaining the tradition of political generalism. We're giving it to you!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u330	I'm done saying...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u331	Do you ignore the Bureau? I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u332	I conclude by saying that the basis for this memorandum and the agreement is given the specific national policy we are implementing and that is what I have developed. I didn't get out of the matter, I was very clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u333	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being followed by the upper Western theories - and that is why we must all be very careful in managing the debate - after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber of ENIZELOS and have been informed about the history of the building and the way in which this House is organised and operated, 50 students and students and three educational attendances from the 3rd Salamis High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The debate is alive, I hope you do not mislead us in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u334	Mr President, I would ask you to take the floor so that we can get this done smoothly.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u335	I beg your pardon, Mr Xydakis, I will give Mrs Triantafyllou the floor, because she had asked for the floor beforehand. Mrs Triantafel, you have the floor on a very strict procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u336	As strict as Mr. Bukkoros.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u337	I mean, you're making us...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u338	Mr. President, please...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u339	...to figure out what you're trying to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u340	Mr President, I would like to say this: you are President in this sitting, and I think you can really see who has violated the procedure, who has expressed himself in the way it was expressed. You are right that the procedure has been broken, but at least on the part of SYRIZA and the SYRIZA rapporteur have said only two things about the amendment. Of course, each one of us, as it stands, is politically speaking, of course, from the rest of us politically, but I think that this is where the trouble has been overshadowed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u341	By who?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u342	I'm clear. In this process, therefore, I say again that we should be constantly in conflict. In my humble opinion, we maintained the process. I would also really like the Bureau to judge - I think it has already done so - and I think there are certain people in this House who are over-driving many times. We've never been an honorer of anyone. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u343	However, the Bureau has neither commented nor wished to comment on the content of the speech. The Bureau is trying to safeguard a balance in the debate and is trying to do everything in its power to hear all views, but the Rules of Procedure should not be violated.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u344	He didn't break today, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u345	You know very well that we had a diversion from the debate rather than the contents, in time. You know that very well. Mr. Xydakis, just a word. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u346	Look, Mr President, the special rapporteur and I, too, on the subject of the amendment on where you were going, have spoken very specifically with a political argument and a calm end to a procedure which is predetermined and discussed in committee, where a climate of understanding and composition prevailed. End the story! Unfortunately, also the parliamentary representative, whom I suspect, Mr Javarras and Mr Psarians have given other extensions. They became embroiled by the government for things that are irrelevant of this debate, they do not fall. Here we are going to make a settlement on where you were, in economic terms, giving a political and practical solution. Let's finish here, let's close because there was a good discussion in the committee and we get here and show the impression of a dog fight. We've agreed on the basics. Anyone who does not agrees 'present' and ends.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u347	Good, Mr. Xydakis. Let us consider it being closed so smoothly. Mr. Katsotis, would you like something?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u348	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u349	Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u350	As I anticipated in my position, I said that the debate would be general and objective. In addition, we have been presided over by the Minister in the committee that he will tell us more today. Mr President, you were in committee. You heard that. We waited for the Minister to say everything he said. Therefore, the Bureau should also organise the debate otherwise, because, for example, there are issues which we can and must answer to the Minister, about what he says and about what he is not saying. It is therefore a matter of discussion, how it is organized, when the Minister told the committee that he would say other things today.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u351	Mr Katsotis, I would like to tell you that I also said at today's sitting that the Minister's speech is really interesting because he raised a number of issues. And in the committee I told you that all the issues...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u352	Without a copy, Mr. President? In the House without a parole?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u353	Excuse me. Let me continue. And the issues that you raised in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection were of great interest. However, if we develop all these issues without allowing the other parties also to participate in the substance of the debate, we have violated the Rules of Procedure because the other parties have spoken about this issue of the Greek - Egyptian tourism agreement and the debate has been extended without their participation, the essential one. That is why I say that the Rules of Procedure have been violated. Thank you very much. Let us follow Mr Xydakis' call to close this debate and move on to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Tourism is finalised: 'Following the Memorandum of Understanding for Cooperation in Tourism between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt and other provisions'. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u354	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u355	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u356	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u357	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u358	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u359	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u360	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u361	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u362	Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of Tourism: ‘Following the Memorandum of Understanding on Tourism Cooperation between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt and other provisions’, was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the vote on the articles. Asked by this House: Can Article first be accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u363	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u364	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u365	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u366	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u367	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u368	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u369	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u370	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u371	The first article was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the second paragraph as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u372	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u373	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u374	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u375	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u376	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u377	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u378	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u379	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u380	The second paragraph of Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 3 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u381	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u382	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u383	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u384	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u385	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u386	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u387	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u388	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u389	The third paragraph of Article 3 was therefore accepted as being majority. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u390	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u391	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u392	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u393	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u394	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u395	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u396	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u397	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u398	The late payment was made by a majority vote. We are entering the vote as a whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u399	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u400	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u401	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u402	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u403	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u404	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u405	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u406	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u407	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Tourism: ‘Structuring the Memorandum of Understanding for Cooperation in Tourism between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of articles and all of them and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u408	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u409	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Thursday 10 November 2016 (morning) have been distributed and the House is asking whether they have been ratified.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u410	The minutes of Thursday 10 November 2016 (morning) were therefore ratified. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-12-S1-commons.u411	The sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, January 13, 2017 at 10 a.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: a debate on topical and urgent questions.
