ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: According to Parliament's 20-9-2017 delegation, the minutes of the PP Sessions of Wednesday, 20 September 2017, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: "European mandate for investigation into criminal matters - Harmonisation of legislation with Directive 2014/41/EU and other provisions"]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers for Environment and Energy, Home Affairs, Economy and Development, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economic, Administrative Reconstruction, Culture and Sport, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime and Island Policy, Rural Development and Food and Tourism, the Deputy Ministers of Finance, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Environment and Energy, Rural Development and Food, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Finance and Culture and Sport, have tabled a draft law on 20.09.2017: "Control and protection of the structured environment". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS From today's topical questions will be discussed three. They will not be discussed, due to the absence of the competent ministers abroad, two questions: The second one, with number 1495/18-9-2017, is a topical question for the second of the Athens MP, Georgios Koumoutsakos, to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "The Greek Government's stand against Macedonia's continuing intransigence", will not be discussed due to the absence of Mr Kotzias abroad. The second question under number 5958/576/30-5-2017 asked and application for the submission of documents in the reporting cycle by Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: ‘Are they sought or not alternatives to avoid a new reduction in pension expenditure under the last Law 4472/2017?’ It will not be discussed because of the absence of Mr Anastasios Petropoulos abroad. The fifth under number 1503/19-9-2017 topical question by the Independent MEP, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Interior, on the question of debts of the Municipal Waste Water Corporation of West Achaia to PPC, will not be discussed due to lack of competence. The Ministry of the Environment and Energy is responsible for answering. They will also not be debated because of the impediment of the competent ministers and will not be redefined for discussion, which means that colleagues will have to put them back on the basis of the amendment of the Rules of Procedure, which has been made - because the impediments of the competent ministers are included in the justified absences - the following questions: The third, with No. 1508/19-9-2017, topical question of the first cycle of the MP Irakliou of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Increasing the financing of the measure "The Installation of Young Farmers", so that no young person who wishes to deal with agricultural production can be left out, will be given a fair examination of the objections", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister, Evangelos Apostolos, who is on a government mission internally. Similarly, the first question with number 7260/14-7-2017 question of the circle of references by the Member of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Unjusted young farmers of Elias, due to their exclusion from Measure 6.1 "Installation of young farmers" of the 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme (PAA), will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Master Apostle, who is on a government mission internally. Also, the fourth question under number 1498/18-9-2017, first question by the Athens MP, Athanasios Pafili, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Inadmissible situation in the Panhellenic Gymnastic Association", will not be discussed due to a justified blockade by the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport, George Vassiliou. Finally, the first topical question with No 1493/18-9-2017 second cycle of MP Chios of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Andreas Michaelides to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Completion of work for the formation and fence of an expropriated area at Chios airport and the construction of an extension of the Christos road", will not be discussed due to a justified hindrance - according to the new Regulation - of Minister Christos Spirtzis. Similarly, the third, with number 1507/19-9-2017, a topical question by the President of Heraklion of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMARKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKM The same is the fourth question with number 1509/19-9-2017, the second question of the Member of Parliament's Lesvos, of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Stavros Tassos, to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, concerning the immediate compensation for seismopaths and the compensation for damages in Lesvos, will not be discussed because of a justified hindrance - according to the new Rules - of the Minister of Justice, Mr. Christos Spirtzis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u5	You don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u6	But, Mr. President,...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u7	No, you can't under the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Tassos. You can't. It is justified on the basis of a change in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, this is the sixth or seventh time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u9	Yes, I now tell you that under the Rules of Procedure, the absence of a colleague is justified and is one of these cases where you need to resubmit it. Now, since you are in the Chamber, I give you the floor for an exceptional minute, not that you are entitled to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u10	Okay. This is the sixth or seventh time that the debate on this question has been postponed. And therefore, the government, through Minister Spirtzi, shows its sensitivity to the problems of workers and the populace. When it comes to capital and its subsidies we have the fast track procedures. When it comes to workers and people's environments, we have the immoveable procedures. It is consistent with the government's policy, obviously.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u11	All right, Mr. Tassos. For everything you have heard, there is a letter from the Secretary of Government, Mr Michael Kalogerou, confirming what the services have prepared. The first question to be debated today is the sixth question under number 1455/11-9-2017, the second time question from the Independent MEP, Efstathos Panagoulis, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject of “Incomplete tradition of the individual political opinions of the Panagoulis family and of concealing documents”. To wish you many years, Mr. Panagoulis, for yesterday. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, I am very pleased that the Minister has found the way and learned where the House is. Seventh time I asked a topical question, the five previous ones were for workers' chemicals and beatings. And the second time is this and Mr. Toskas found his way to the House. It seems that Mr Toskas detests Parliament. Mr President, briefly. Last February my colleagues at the Ministry of Interior and Public Order asked me to submit my family files. Since February, Mr President, we have been taken from Anna to Kaiafa. When my partner, a lawyer, told them he was going to table a question at the end of June, we were told to go to the Home Office. Listen to what they said to us, before we go to the Interior Ministry: "You will file a paradox 159 euros to get the files". I did go with my attorney at the Ministry of Interior and they gave me about seven hundred and a thousand pages. My brother Alexander Panagouli's file was missing and my father's file. They handed me a small part of my file, a small part of my mother's file, and so was my brother, LOK's missing lieutenant, George Panagoulis. I have tabled the timely question, Mr President, and also an application for documents. Indeed, the Minister of Public Order sent me five bulk files of about five thousand pages in the House, as he had to do. Unfortunately, there was still no record of my father, an officer of warfare, traumatized warfare, who was arrested twice on a junta and who was detained under house arrest. Consequence of all these hardships, he lost his life. The most important thing I was interested in was my brother George Panagoulis, who was lieutenant at the LOK and the first Greek officer to say "no" to the junta, when the Minister was serving the junta as Euelpis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u13	Start slandering, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u14	You will answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u15	Learn to act as parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Panagulis, finish it up. The question is that there should not be any disputes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u17	I have twenty years in this Chamber and I have never interrupted anyone or called underneath. You found the road at last. You should also know the rules of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u18	Go on, Mr. Panagoulis. Already, I've left you twice as much time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u19	Did I lie, Mr. Tosca?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u20	Keep going. I'll answer you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u21	Mr. Panagoulis, complete your protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u22	You didn't enter 1971 at the School of Hope, which in normal circumstances...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u23	Is that a clue to blame?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u24	Mr. Panagoulis, excuse me. Complete your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u25	He interrupted me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u26	Yeah, all right. But finish your prototype and I'll let you...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u27	Because I know your sensitivity to these issues, I do not think I should be given a little more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u28	But I've left you more time, as you can see.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u29	He did not deliver the complete file of George Panagoulis. My father completely ignored him. He was your colleague. He fought in the Albanian Epic. He's wounded, Mr. Toska. He didn't take the gallons like a burrow of fresh water! King Panagulis didn't get them there.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u30	Finish the protagonist, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u31	I conclude, Mr President, by saying this: why did Mr Toskas and his services not send the documents on the understandings made by Mossad, the service of Israel, where my brother had fled, when he left Greece, with the Greek CFP? Why isn't Mr. Toskas tabling the talks then made by the dictator George Papadopoulos with the then Prime Minister of Israel? Why doesn't he testify with that? Who does Mr. Toscas want to protect?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u32	You'll answer and have your dentistry too. Because I know your mentality and you are not such a man, I would like to say two things: obviously, you have rightly complained, because you have been late to get answers, beyond what the Minister will tell you now. I must, however, tell you as President-in-Office that Mr Toskas - and I do not need to be his lawyer, nor do I want to - is he by the ministers who come and answer. I think that is what you said. And secondly, because I also know the love and respect you have in the army in general, let us not fire everyone who entered the School of Hope in 1971!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u33	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u34	You'll answer your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u35	Wait a minute, please, Mr. President. I didn't blame anyone for becoming an officer or being a judge. I blame those who have shown exaggerated zeal.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u36	Good. I understood that, and that is why I wanted to make the clarification. Minister, you have the floor and you will have the relative tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. I shall reply first to the part concerning the procedure for parliamentary scrutiny and, in particular, the two questions that the honourable Member formally raises. To be understood by this House, I would remind you that the exact number of individual political opinions retained by decisions taken by previous governments in 1989 is only two thousand and ten. They are concerned with persons from the time of the Civil War, the Aerospace Court and the time of the dictatorship. They've been all about fighters throughout this period. Some of them at the time the files were destroyed did not, for example, live Kazantzakis. The rest of the files, as everyone knows, were delivered to the fire with a cross-party consensus at that time and, according to the Minister at that time, Mr. Kefaliannis, the number of these files was about seventeen million, which envelopes were driven to the steel industry, brought to the fire and destroyed, poorly by me, but that is the reality. For the rest of the files, the two thousand percent ten, there was a decision to keep them closed, without access to anyone until 2029. With my personal decision, these files opened in May 2016. I wonder why the honourable Member, who was also a Minister - and indeed a State Secretary for the Interior, which means he could have access from then on to his family's files - did not protest either in 1984, nor in 1989, nor asked for access at that time. What did we do? We abolished the ban and allowed survivors and their relatives to gain direct access. Of course, we didn't create new files, nor did we start looking for evidence and putting new files in these files. The honourable Member is rescinding us because we did not deliver him the file of Vassilis Panagoulis' father. Such a file simply does not exist between the two thousand and ten dossiers, which have been with intergroup consent since 1989. The Member also asks us why he does not get the case, as we received him at the Security Office, and he blames us for having concealed the information concerning the understandings of the Israeli Secret Service Mossad and the CFP and documents concerning the dictator Papadopoulos with the then Prime Minister of Israel in relation to his brother's disappearance, because it was simply such evidence when we received these files, there were no. In fact, I also addressed to today's NSA whether there are any data on this case, and the NSA told me that there were no such data in the service history. I do not know and do not consider where the honourable Member draws information from, or whether it is true or false, but to control and invoke allegedly hidden data without any evidence, any proof, and even when I opened the files? In the same logic, anyone can come and seek and say why there is no record of this agonist, this anti-positive, this man who has been tortured. Because we simply received these files. I wish there were the seventeen million of the files burned. If the honourable Member wishes to protest because he does not exist and has not survived his father's file, which was also his brother's action, and then there were his brother in the EEA, that is not my problem and it is not a problem that the current government has created. There's one more thing I want to say. We set up a committee of intellectuals, experts, we are in cooperation with the Military Archives Service and will be handed over to the Military Archives Service these files to be made available by the rules of the Military Archives Service, as is the case with the other public documents, as they have been so many years since these events occurred. However, I now come to another matter which also has a personal character.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u38	And that's what you're finishing up with, Mr. Toska.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u39	Mr President, so much has been said. The Member in question seems to me to be taking part in a number of contractions in recent years - I would say - in my dissatisfaction, presenting them with a plunger and everything, because for reasons I do not understand them, he insists on systematically muddling on these issues. In fact, after what has been said, Manolis Glezos, the well-known fighter, asked me to convey to you that anyone who wants recommendations for my resistance past or for any of my past should address him. And there could be other people inside and not the Government's Order in this Parliament, who are not present at the moment, to speak. Unless, of course, those who served in the military at the time of the junta or those who entered the military schools and graduated in the coming years, that is, the leaderships of the Armed Forces in all previous years, have been dormant. Many of me have recommended not to respond to this challenge, but for a number of reasons this Member has lost all trace of credibility. I'm up against it. My personal honor is not at risk of such false attacks and false riots. Last week, while I was absent from Parliament by doing a serious duty of service, this Member of Parliament without taking part in the sitting was arbitrarily speaking using unacceptable Hybrid designations against me and displaying a photo. I challenge him now to testify to the Secretariat of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u40	On the Minutes of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u41	On the Minutes of the House. But he made a disastrous mistake about the same mistake. He pretended to display the photo, didn't testify it, and I'm waiting for him to testify right now. Otherwise, you understand what it means. That is what I wanted to say for now, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u42	Mr. Panagoulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u43	I justify the Minister, because he does not know how this Parliament works and obviously does not know my own story. I have not accused myself, Mr President. I'll start where you made the observation and you did it right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u44	Clearance, not observation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u45	I didn't blame anyone for at the time that sad, seven-year-old, became an officer, a police officer, a judge or anything else. I have accused them, Mr President, of being zealous and the Minister - and I will prove it to you - of being zealous. At that time to enter the School of Hope, you had to have a means. I will testify - I did not want to do that, Minister, you are causing me - in the Minutes because you caused me, a picture that your father is at the celebrations of the junta - I have other photographs, I have this handmade right now - under the bird of Judas. How did you get in, Minister, to the School of Hope?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u46	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u47	I have not interrupted and you will not interrupt me, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u48	Go on, Mr. Panagoulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u49	You wouldn't be able to become a waterman in Kobotti at that time if you didn't have a certificate of social rights. Do you know where Kobotti is? Ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u50	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u51	Mr President, I would have no problem with the Minister. The Minister has only not told us so far that he was a trotskyist and has insulation and resistance through the junta ranks. And what has irritated me, Mr President, and I consider myself to be responsible for the fact that all these years have left some gymnastics to rob the resistance, is that the Minister writes in his curriculum that he has been a resistance. I did not meet you, Minister, in twelve prisons and detentions I made, from 1967 to 1974.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u52	You don't have the monopoly!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u53	I have not interrupted you, Minister. Why are you upset? But it's not your fault! I didn't meet you anywhere and you're telling me you're a resistance. Are you a trotskyist? Say it, don't be embarrassed! You're in a progressive, left party. You're a trotskyist and you're in the way? And learn not to interrupt, Minister! Can you tell me something, because you're saying you're a resistance? The night Ioannides did the coup, where did you go? You went to the Lycabetto to keep the telecoms. Is it true or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u54	You're a liar. You're a disgusting liar!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u55	Am I a liar? Dozens of your colleagues have confirmed it to me. You're a forger of history and resistance. Minister, you have shown during the two years you are at the Ministry that you are incapable and irresponsible. If you're assigned to keep empty warehouses, I'm sure they'll steal your door. I conclude with this, Mr President: the resistance is intimidated, fighting heroic officers, Spiros Mustaklis, Anastasios Monu, Antonis Kakara, General Opropoulos and Nikos Pappas, who have been imprisoned. And now he comes to tell us that he has a witness that he was a resistanceist. Minister, the agency also asks you for money from these people who have been afflicted to give them some worn pictures! And I inform you, in order to prepare yourself psychologically, that I have been authorized by several resistanceists to ask Monday to submit their files to the House, because you have submitted them to a huge suffering. Since February, Mr President, five times my colleagues have gone to the Ministry of the Interior, which is in Kifisia. From Anna to Kaiafa, from one day to another, from one week to another, from one month to another! And if I hadn't tabled the timely question and application for documents, I would have had absolutely no answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u56	Finish, Mr. Panagoulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u57	I shall conclude, Mr President. I ask Mr. Toskas to withdraw from his CV that he was a resistance. You are insulting, Minister, all those who fought and gave their lives and are not among us today to sit there and rejoice as Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u58	Of course, everything that has been said has nothing to do with the question. Minister, you have the floor, because it is personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u59	Mr President, I have never heard of such a slander and unscrupulous accusations within Parliament. Please give me the picture to see it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u60	I shall put it before you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u61	I'll sign it to get a photocopy and get the minister on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u62	Mr President, first of all, I honour the struggles of the Panagoulis family and the struggles of all fighters for democracy and freedom, but from this point on, to the point, someone is trying to monopolize the struggles for democracy. I think the whole world has figured out what happened. Instead of 2029, I've opened the files now, and I'm accused of being above? And can anyone say why there is no such Mossad document or this secret service document? I wish we had all the papers and all the world's information and were given for use in historical archives and for use by stakeholders. Unfortunately, these papers exist, in these files there are. If documents were removed over time, after that time, it was not me, Mr. Panagulis, who, as I said before, could have been interested in the files of his family. Too many people have gotten files. There were malfunctions, there were reactions from service actors, who were afraid to sign them because they wrote "confidentially". We're over it. Not to go out of above indictees, because we have opened the historical archives, and we will, as I said, give them to the Military Archives Service, so that the ones that are scheduled to have wider access. From there on, when it comes to the personal issue, anyone who has doubts, let him ask Manolis Glezo, let him ask the other resistances and the others who know within Parliament and outside the government. They're engraving anyone. The designations, charges and slanders that have been launched - not now - that have been launched all over the last few weeks I don't know why they're launching. I do not have the proper knowledge to interpret these behaviours, but they are totally unacceptable and they characterise the one who expresses, who launches such accusations in this area. But Mr President, I would like to see the photo, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u63	You will be given, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u64	Thank you very much. The photo has some people, including, I can see, and my father, working at the Air Force State Air Force Factory at a ceremony. My father - in mind - was a member of the Venizelic Movement of 1936, a permanent official of the Air Force, a member of the Albanian front, a militant fighter of the National Resistance and of the sabotters of the Gorgepotamo Bridge. He was an employee of the State Aircraft Factory at a ceremony. If that means anything, if it's a charge, I don't get it. And I don't understand...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u65	Go on, Minister, now, because I've shown tolerance, but we're talking about an irrelevant subject, that is, I feel I'm not doing my job well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u66	Yes, Mr President, but you have shown tolerance to both charges and slanders.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u67	Okay, that's why I let you talk on staff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u68	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u69	Mr. Panagoulis, you don't have the floor anymore. There'll be a response. Please, I let you speak for twelve minutes too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u70	Mr President, I would just like to say one sentence.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u71	Mr. Panagoulis, you can't say a phrase because the Minister will answer again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u72	I could take the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u73	There's no staff, the Minister didn't swear on you now, sorry. Well, we move on to the next question and because I see Mr Georganta here and Mrs Katsavria will be 'the point'. It is the second question of 1494/18-9-2017 of the New Democracy MP Kilkis, Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios, to the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, about the planning of recruitments of each speciality in the municipalities and the delays in updating the census. The Minister for Reconstruction, Mr. Olga Gerovali, will answer. Mr. Georgiod, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, we will try to be 'to the point', as you said, Mr President, at least I in my question, which I will distinguish a little from the number of questions contained in the topical question, because I understand that some are issues that need to be answered by the Ministry of the Interior, as we have been informed with your colleague, Minister, yesterday. Madam Minister, my question has a key axis, a key issue that has been created. It's about the permanent staff of cleaning, for which you have announced that they will be recruited in the next period. The relevant notices will be issued by March 2018. Is it included in the limitation of departures and recruitment? I ask this question for two reasons. The first is because we have - at least the first time, you will make it clear to us - contradictory statements by the Ministers. At some point you have expressed that they are included in the restriction. Mr. Skourletis had an opposite view. I do not know if you have changed your initial position too, but it is important that we know about this. It was mentioned then, when the issue was raised with contractors, that there are two and a half thousand demands from municipalities for permanent staff recruitment. Are these requests for staff in cleanliness or are they out of cleaning? Because according to the medium-term, there is a certain number, which has been foreseen for the possibility of recruitment to the LAGs. For the three years 2017, 2018, 2019 is a thousand nine hundred and sixty-three people that you have agreed, as a government, that they can be hired to the OTAs. So you understand that if it is not done with permanent staff of cleanliness, it is a question of whether we are starting notices, which can ultimately be deprived of the possibility of other sectors, such as the Security Body, justice and health. I think you are due to a clear answer to Parliament about your position, which I imagine you have also consulted the institutions, so that we know exactly what programming is. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u75	Thank you for the time, too. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Georgioda, I will answer you as clearly as I can and I think I can. The issue of recruitment in municipal cleanliness services you know is related to the budget of the reward services, which come from the remuneration fees paid by the public to the municipalities, in order to provide them with compensation services. It is therefore money that does not affect the state budget and its management. There has been a great problem with cleanliness, because there have been no recruitments for many years. You know well for how many years they haven't been recruited to the municipalities. And, of course, I think that when every citizen pays a special fee for that, the municipalities should pay him decent cleaning services. So this whole debate took place and an issue was raised this summer because the recruitment had been delayed and all that you know has been done. Then the Minister of Interior, of course, announced his intention to create a corresponding - not equal - positions, based on the demands of the municipalities, permanent staff in cleaning services. This, of course, as you said - how many of them were, how many recruitments will take place, when all these details will be made - it is obviously a matter of the Ministry of the Interior. These recruitments do not fall under the recruitment rule - leaving rule, which reminds you that for this year it is one to four. In any case, although the needs of the State in many services, as you have said, are strong, compelling and increased, the rule of recruitment and departure will be respected, as has been agreed, on the basis of the medium-term programme and on the basis of the country's budgets. Let me tell you the number, because it is important to hear: permanent civil servants in the public service in December 2016 were five hundred sixty-five thousand sixty-sixty-seven and seventy-seven and today there are five hundred sixty-sixty-six thousand two civil servants. In other words, there has been a change of three hundred employees, which of course is of no importance. It's just within the limits.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u77	Does this number include the TABs?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u78	No, these numbers have happened so far. Requests from the municipalities, when the competition will take place, how many places will be, these are not on the agenda yet. I now come to your questions, Mr Georgioda. I would like to reply to your fifth question that recruitment planning is being carried out and submitted and made public for the next few years. If, for some reason, the need arises, this programming can be altered by respecting the number of the withdrawal rule. In other words, we can assess in one department that the need can wait six months and then wait for us to change programming. However, proper programming must be aware that this was also a difficult chapter in public administration, because there was no mechanism structured from previous years, which would make clear what needs will be in one or two years' time in each service. We're trying to structure this mechanism as well. As far as census and delays are concerned, there was one issue. It was found that the data in the census relating to contractors, although the contracts expired for months without such information from the competent authorities to come down from the census and to show the termination of such contracts. So we noticed excessive numbers being captured. In the spring of 2017, in May, when we reached the seventy - sixty - one, we realized that something is happening with the census method. Let me just tell you what was included in this number. Apart from the fact that there were delays in bringing the data down, that is to say, the end of contracts, even the students who did their practice as State contractors appeared. You agree with the services, after a job that has been done, as you know now in the data are also posted in August. Let me just say to you to understand the scale of the error that in May there were seventy thousand, sixty-one contractors in total - and state money and the NRP all together - and in August fifty-four thousand sixty-five five, a change of over twenty-thousand, precisely because there were malfunctions in the system. Trying to restore the system and bring it to the real facts has been a delay of about two months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u79	Before I gave Mr Georganta the floor, to correct it in the Minutes, you said that Mr Skourletis promised to create permanent positions in cleanliness. Obviously, you meant covering empty organic positions in cleanliness.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u80	Yeah. I mean, based on the municipality's demands...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u81	To fill empty organics that exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u82	To respond to the Ministry...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u83	Not make more. I say it because you said to create.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u84	Wrong wording. I mean, based on...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u85	I get it. I had to tell you, to correct it in the Minutes. Here, Mr Georgioda, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u86	Mr President, the Minister actually gave her interpretation a clear answer, saying she considers that recruitment of permanent staff in cleaning is not included in the rule of withdrawals and recruitment. I will be allowed to have reservations - and I will explain this - and I hope that in the next few years I will not be disproved, as I think there will eventually be many problems if things are as I say. Reading the medium-term signed by the Government in May 2017 on page 209 I see only one exception, which exists from the designated, the estimated number of withdrawal recruitments. The only exception there is is in irrevocable judicial decisions. We know very well that the largest number of irrevocable judicial decisions is essentially compensation services, namely in the areas of cleanliness. I therefore believe that if they really wanted to have an exception to this rule, it would have been included in the exceptions, as set out on page 209. However, there are other elements which allow me personally to say that your position is wrong. One of these is that with an amendment brought by Mr. Skourletis, the cleaning payroll can now be paid for at least the last two-three years, i.e. in 2015, 2016 and 2017 by each municipality code, not only by the cleaning codes. This possibility was given because it was a large number. So you understand that we already have a long, three-year, payment of non-cleaning codes. Thirdly, the logic of not charging the budget of the central government is that it is not a good argument, because it is a burden to the citizens. The fees are either a central government budget or a budget for cleaning charges, which must be increased sometimes in order to satisfy all the recruits, once again they are borne by the citizen. We also have the fact that you have been asked to limit the contractors. I therefore believe that the image you give will lead to pluralism. In other words, if the notices do not go ahead and you do not exactly do this assessment, that is to say they are included in the rule, I think that issues will be created with all the other notices in areas that are really necessary. There are great needs in both health and justice. I think that the framework, as you put it to me, is not clear. In any case, I would ask - I imagine you have a day-to-day communication with the institutions - to make this clear so that we really know where we are going and what will come from. On the basis of the suggestion made and on the basis of the texts, you must make this understanding so that the municipalities also know what they are doing. One municipality has planned to recruit other staff who need them, because the municipalities do not only need cleaning staff. You understand what will happen to these programming, if suddenly they say "the planning you have done for cleanliness, it forbids you from doing any other intakes" in other sectors that will need people. There are other services to be provided. So the answer must be clear and after consultation, because the written texts, which so far I see, do not support this position. Let me say one last thing about the census. Of course, one cannot accept that, within two months and with this restructuring, the contractors were reduced by thirty thousand. We simply know very well that September always and not August is added 15 to twenty thousand substitutes, which are within this category. In other words, there are a few months in the year where the number of contractors is very small, but in September, called by the alternates, is already twenty thousand. I'm sure next month will be a couple of fifteen to twenty thousand. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u87	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u88	Obviously, Mr Georgioda, contractors have a seasonal distribution, as you know, and there are months with larger numbers and months with smaller ones, precisely because the needs within time are changing. But what has been agreed and respected with the institutions is not a reduction in the number of contractors, as falsely recorded in various press releases...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u89	There's forty-seven thousand five-seven.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u90	I'll tell you exactly the numbers. I explained that about forty - seven thousand two hundred are the number of contracts relating to the state budget. There are also about thirty thousand contractors, where they are co-financed projects which are another category, including, as I have said, there were even even students' practice. It is therefore two different issues. Nevertheless, the sum of about seventy-two thousand or seventy-six thousand - I do not remember to tell you exactly - the agreement with the institutions, which is maintained is the average of the year 2016, that is, the average that will be formed in 2017 should not exceed last year. What was also discussed and won in the negotiation was the number of contractors involving natural disasters and refugee, not to be included and excluded. In other words, in the old seventy-two thousand there were inside, too. So you realize that there is comfort for contractors. I don't mean we're going to raise them. We don't want to increase the contractors. We do not like to create such jobs, but in any case the country's budgets, the country's finances, are what they define. With regard to the second issue you raised on the planning of the municipalities, each municipality may ask for positions based, firstly, on its establishment plan and, secondly, on its budget. If the municipality does not do that, it will obviously have taken himself out of his own program rather than the government. You know very well that in order to ask for positions and for approval, it must be shown that your finances correspond to this need that a municipality comes to cover. Of course, I agree that the municipalities have other needs, but unfortunately we cannot cover them. We're trying to cover them with surgery. So, Cythno asks for five people, because he doesn't have services to get out of compulsory services, and we're trying to get one, so he doesn't get naked. Surgery is taking place in order to resolve issues specifically of barren and remote areas to the extent that they allow economic and the rules of withdrawals, which we will in any case be observing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, we will now discuss the first question with number 1492/18-9-2017 on the first cycle of the Parliamentary Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Chryssoula Katsavria - Siropoulou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the impact on cotton farming by reducing residue limits of the active substance ‘mepiquat chloride’. These phrases are good to be written in Greek. The Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food will answer Mr. Vassiliou. Here, Mrs. Katsavria, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. Minister of State, on 17 June 2016, the European Commission decided, on the basis of Regulation 2016/1015, to reduce the maximum residue levels of the plant protection product ‘mepiquat chloride’ known to all ‘RIX’ in cotton seed. Specifically, it decided to reduce from 0.5 ppm - parts in the million - to the limit of analytical determination of 0,05 ppm, i.e. essentially not detectable. Those reduced residue limits shall apply from 19 January 2017 and, at the same time, in accordance with Article 2 of that Regulation, transitional measures shall be granted for products produced before that date. For this reason, the use of "RIX" preparations has been restricted to cotton plants whose seeds will not be used for human or animal consumption. Although the decision of the Secretary-General, Mr Antonoglou, was exceptionally authorized to use a hundred and twenty days in the "RIX", the cottonseed to which the same substance would be detected can only be sold within Greece. This means that the bulk of cotton seed produced cannot be exported to countries in the European Union in which it has so far held 80% of the export product. Consequently, the risk of market distortion in cotton seeds is threatening. In other words, the price the producer enjoys is the sum of the fibre and cottonseed after the costs have been incurred, falling the price of cottonseed intended for feed and export, there is a risk that it will necessarily involve the price of cottonseed. Undersecretary, because cotton is an extremely important crop for the country, for Thessaly, but especially for my area of Carditsa, because it is also the main source of decent income for thousands of Greek producers and rural families, from whose production is invading valuable currency in the country and, finally, because there is a turmoil and fear that farmers' incomes will be reduced, I ask you this: What steps will you take to resolve the problem with the residue limit of the active substance ‘mepiquat chloride’?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u93	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u94	Madam Commissioner, we have indeed had a reduction, as you mentioned, in the residues. First of all, we must make it clear that it is mutually acceptable that cotton is the flagship not only for the Thessaloniki, but also for other regions of Greece. We must and must - and we shall do so - support cotton, because it is a product on which the primary sector is very much founded. This reduction is due to the fact that it was not supported by the European Food Safety Authority by any Member State - and therefore by Greece - the authorised use of the active substance with mepiquat chloride in cotton. As far as our country is concerned, this is due to the lack of information from the company concerned on this issue, so that the agency can intervene in the movement of all officials - three in particular - who were dealing with the relevant waste, plant protection products, with the agreement of the then political leadership, despite the Agency's disagreement. We moved in time, as you yourself said. We granted an exemption for a hundred and twenty days, but this applies within the Greek territory. But our agency promoted the application of the company concerned to assess the risk in Benacio. The evaluation was completed by Benacio. The absence of an 'unacceptable risk' has been confirmed and an evaluation report has been prepared proposing the introduction of a temporary residue limit. The agency then enacted Article 18 of Regulation No 396 of 2005, according to which it granted, by way of derogation, the licence of a hundred and twenty days. On 21 and 22 September, a representative of our Office will participate in the meeting of the Standing Committee to support our country's positions, stressing the urgency of tabling this issue and proposing that the request be considered as a matter of priority even temporary residue limits. Of all this, Madam President, we have received a problem and we are trying to cure it by all legal means, because cotton farming in our country is very important. We are awaiting the results from the conference in the Standing Committee, which will be attended by a representative of our Office, and we will inform the stakeholders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u95	Mrs. Katsavria, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u96	Mr Minister, thank you, first of all, for the answer. I understand the efforts made by the Ministry and the professional organisation of cotton, in order to tolerate the previous MRL limits, i.e. the residues of the active substance at the earlier levels in the European Union. A road opens, so that there is no risk of a reduction in the incomes of thousands of rural families. We hope that these efforts will be successful. As we hope to respond to its obligation, and the company producing and marketing this active substance. This company must take the necessary steps and complete the dossier with the required residue experiments requested by EFSA. I left for my dentistry, Minister, the second part of my question, which concerns the red loans to farmers and their cooperative organisations. We all know that, primarily because of the mismanagement of the old agricultural bank, but also because of the crisis that followed, many of the farmers' loans and the cooperatives became unserved. So in recent years, an intense parafiscality has been developed to regulate or not regulate the red loans of farmers. As a result, producers are very concerned about the viability of their farms, because, as we all know, this sustainability for the overhead farmers is directly related to their ability to serve their old loans. So I would like you to tell us, Minister, whether there will be and what will be the solution to this issue, so that the rural world does not remain a commitment to the arrogant debts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u97	This is a huge matter, but I do not know whether it is the responsibility of this State Secretary. However, Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u98	First of all, two words to the previous question that we understand the concern of cotton producers, but as the Ministry of Rural Development at the moment we can say that we have just received knowledge of the problem in time and appropriately and with all the legal measures, both in Greece and in the European Union, in order to protect the income of cotton producers. But, I repeat, it was a problem that we received because of poor movements of previous political leaders. I would like to say two words, although the President said that there is no competence for agricultural loans.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u99	I wondered, I didn't say.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u100	Yeah, yeah. Probably, Mr President, because it's the Ministry of Finance. The Carditsa Prefecture is afflicted by overcompensation, and the cooperatives and natural persons. How the Agricultural Bank was operating was and is a demonstration of the banking phobia in the past decades. Unfortunately, the Agricultural Bank, instead of making the agricultural credit, has had three axes: first, funding for cooperatives without banking criteria. Secondly, the funding of the political parties. And thirdly, the graceful arrangements. All the previous thirty years were the case with this vicious banking system implemented by the Agricultural Bank: it provided loans to the cooperatives, which were supposed to go into farmers' pockets. On the contrary, there was not a single drachma then in the farmers’ pockets. Today, after 2012, when the Agricultural Bank was sold out in substance, it remained the bad part in the company being liquidated, with thousands of farmers, thousands of farmers being captive of overcompensation, but also several cooperatives. The government will shortly announce some basic principles for regulating these'red loans'. I give you an outline: Sustainable debt. The farmer will now be able to pay what he can and not what the Agricultural Bank had previously called on him to pay. Secondly, the re-energisation of the well-known law on grotesques. And here, Mrs Giannakou-Koutsikou, it is this oxymomile: we are being accused of the opposition: 'What are you doing about agricultural loans?' Is it possible when they did not take care of 2012? In 2012, with the transfer of the Agricultural Bank, they did not provide for a single measure for the loans of these farmers. And they are asking now Officers - and Major and Minor-Population and they are accusing us: 'What are you doing about agricultural loans?' Is that possible? Soon Mr Apostle said that he will also announce the plan for cooperative property. Thousands of cooperatives are bankrupt. Many who have commanded the cooperatives are charged with criminal offences. Huge fortunes. These properties, with due respect for the Constitution, should always be owed and transferred, at least being exploited by farmers or producer groups. So - and I close, Mr President, and thank you for understanding - the Ministry of Rural Development in cooperation and with the co-operating ministries is considering a genuine, sustainable solution for agricultural loans with transparency and giving a real and radical solution to this cancer, indeed, which has troubled the primary sector for forty years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u101	I'm afraid you'll have to come back, but anyway. Thank you, Minister. At this point, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Friday 22 September 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under No 1496/18-9-2017, a topical question by MP II of the Republic of Athens, Miltiadis Varvitsiotis, to the Minister for Migration Policy, on "They are caught in our country by thousands of refugees and illegal immigrants". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Question No 1501/19-9-2017 by Mr Athanasios Theocharopoulos to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy on: 'What action will you take to deal with the situation in Saronicos? Is there a clear timeframe? When do you estimate that damage and environmental equilibrium will be restored? What care is taken to compensate the affected professionals and citizens? How will you ensure that such a disaster is avoided in the future?' 3. Under No 1489/13-9-2017, a topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Association of Centres Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "An inadequacy of the environmental problem in the Municipality of Cordelios - Evosmos". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under No 1497/18-9-2017, a topical question by Deputy Athens, New Democracy, Anna - Michel Asmakopoulou, Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the government's action to deal effectively with false news (fake news). The topical questions which will be answered by the same Minister or State Secretary will be discussed after each other. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-21-S1-commons.u102	With the consent of the House at 10.49 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 22 September 2017, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: (a) the topical and urgent debate; and (b) the debate on Question No 36/25/14-9-2017 on the agenda which has been distributed.
