ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-24-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: According to the Parliament’s 23-3-2017 authorisation, its minutes of Thursday 23 March 2017 were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Measures to reduce the cost of installation of high-speed electronic communications networks - Harmonisation of legislation in Directive 2014/61/EU and other provisions’.]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question report on Monday 27 March 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Nikolaos Igoumenidis to the Minister of Economy and Development about the replacement - extension of the existing damaged water network of the city of Heraklion Crete. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 624/20-3-2017 by MP Kilkis of New Democracy Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister of Culture and Sport on the delay of the Ministry in the request of the Municipality of Kilkis for the project "Conservation and Upgrading of the National Stage Kilkis". 3. The Question by Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Finance concerning the sale of the "National Insurance". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Kozanis of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Themistoclis (Themi) Mumulides to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The increase in VAT to the concerts in 24% is devastating for Greek music and Greek creators and artists". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 623/20-3-2017 by MP Evros of New Democracy, Anastasios Prize to the Minister of Health, concerning the tragic deficiencies at the Dumos Hospital leading to shrinking, depreciation and deterioration. 3 The Question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Health, about the problems of the Psychiatric Clinic of the General Hospital of Chania "Agios GEORGIOS". 4. The question by No 572-7-3-2017 of the current question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the extradition of Presidential Decrees on the recognition of professional rights of TEI graduates. 5. The Question No 590/13-3-2017 by MP Rethymno of New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Kefaliannis to the Minister of Home Affairs about the management of the waste of Zakynthos Law. 6. The Question No 587/13-2017 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKK Confusion and its maintenance and safe operation responsibilities. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. Under No 596/13-3-2017, a topical question by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zarulia to the Foreign Minister on the subject: "The World Bank "characterizes" the Aegean in Turkey". 8. The Question No 591/13-3-2017 by MP Magnesia of the New Democracy Mr Christos Boukokouros to the Minister of Health on the sanitary abandonment of the Alonissos. 9. The Question No 602/14-3-2017 by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the licenses of assistant teachers. 10. The Question No 577/9-3-2017 by Independent MEP 2 of Athens Efstathios Panagoulis to the Minister of the Interior about the provocative use of chemicals in protesters despite the recent explicit ban on the government and the commitment of the Minister. 11. The question by No 479/14-2-2017, by Evia MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Michou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, about the burden of marine ecosystems in the Mediterranean with radioactive waste. 12. Eleni Zaroulia to the Minister of the Interior on the subject: "The Municipality of Kavala legalises the pseudos in a tourist exhibition in Constantinople". 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The question asked by MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Manatis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the activation of the decision on the pilot study of the Argos' Zone of Economic Control (ZOE). 14. Observed. The Question No 571/7-3-2017 by the Independent MEP, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the case of beer and whether there are persecutors in the Competition Committee. 15. The 584/13-2017 topical question by MP Kilkis of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of Finance about the irrational divestment of the profitable "EGNATIA DUE". 16. Observations of the Committee of the Regions The current question by MP B' Thessaloniki of the Independent Greeks George Lazarides to the Minister for the Environment and Energy with regard to supporting the employment and production of Greek industries. 17. The 582/13-2017 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Interior about the existence of only four speed radars on the national network of the country. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The first under number 629/21-3-2017, the first question of the first cycle of MP Achaias, the Radical Left Coalition, Ms. Athanasias Anagnostopoulou to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on improving the legislative framework for involuntary hospitality in mental patients, will not be discussed due to lack of responsibility. The Department of Health is responsible. The second question under number 621/20-3-2017 of the New Democracy MP Drama, Dimitrios Kyriazides, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, concerning the implementation of the vertical Drama - Amphipolis road route, will not be discussed due to the absence of Mr Spirtzi abroad. The fifth question under number 639/21-3-2017 of the first cycle of the Athens MP of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the reconstructing of the Labour Housing and Labour Housing Organisations will not be discussed due to the absence of Mrs Ahtsoglou abroad. The third, with number 626/20-3-2017, topical question by the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance, on the stage of the realisation of the investment of the former airport of Greek and its delivery to the investor, will not be discussed due to the absence of Mr. Euklidis Tsakalotou abroad. The third question under number 619/20-3-2017 is the first question of the Parliamentary Attica of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the reappointment of importers of higher education on the basis of academic and rational criteria, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister responsible and will be redefined for discussion. The sixth question under number 620/20-3-2017, first question by the Member of the Parliament of the Greek Independents Mr. Konstantinos Katsikis, concerning the compensation of owners of the expropriated areas for the construction of the Western Attiki landfill site, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of the Interior, Mr. Panagiotis Skourletis, due to unsuccessful commitments. The seventh question under number 625/20-3-2017, first cycle of Piraeus, Union of Centres Mr.Theodoras Megalo-Economics, concerning the payment of contractors, to several municipalities in the country, will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Minister, Mr. Panagiotis Skourletis, due to outstanding obligations. Also, the second question under number 622/20-3-2017 of the New Democracy MP, Christos Boukorous, concerning the payment of the transport of students by means of special student cards with public transport, will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Minister, Mr. Panagiotis Skourletis. Finally, the fifth question under number 633/21-32017 of the independent MP, Mr Nicholas Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the subject: 'is the tender for the licensing of television stations delayed and delusional', will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister, Mr Papa, because of a workload. The fourth question, with number 640/21-32017, will be discussed in the Second Circuit of the Greek Communist Party, Nicholas Moraitis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on meeting the needs of personal security, in order to reopen the Museum of Ceremony of the Municipality of Akti - Vonicas. Mr. Moraite, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-24-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Madam President. We transfer, Mrs. Minister, the anger and indignation of the residents of the village of the village of Cyrus - Vonicas of the Prefecture of Ietokarnania, where the museum is closed for four years, two years with the coexistence of New Democracy - PASOK and two years with the government of SYRIZA - ANEL. All the years before, the rulers did not speak of shutting down. Instead, they made promises that the existing building would be maintained and that there would be an extension of the exhibition area in order to house the findings in general. Because we are talking about a museum that has been built for over half a century, almost sixty years now, and it was obviously other standards, and today it does not cover all these needs. Despite the promises given at times, not only did not the maintenance and extension of the building, instead, a nice morning became the closure of the museum. Of course, the rulers - and we must stress this -, with dissatisfaction and hypocrisy, have called for reasons of security for the findings found in the region, which were not discovered by excavations - and here it is the responsibility of the state which does not see to it to be excavated - but have come to the surface after some of the projects carried out by the municipality, the former community, such as the opening up of roads and the excavations of certain buildings. These findings were of great value and, on the grounds of security, they were taken and taken to another museum, even though they had to be housed in their natural space at the Museum of Cyril. Madam Secretary, I don't know how informed you are. Don't tell us what previous speakers have said, that there are no such findings. I tell you features, namely, that there is a gold wreath, which was found when the excavations took place in the village aqueduct and is in another museum. We have some information - I don't know if they're accurate - in which museum they're in. Also, a few years ago, in Aktio, which is in the wider area, there were findings that were carried to another museum, always invoking these reasons, that the safety conditions of the objects are not met. And as if not all of this is enough, two and a half years ago, obviously on an order from the IAS of Antiquities - I don't know, he must be the number - he went to the yard space of the museum to load ancient Byzantine objects. However, there has been mobilisation of the residents, who have enclosed the truck in the yard and, under pressure, did not do so. This is a message sent by the residents, because perhaps there is a thought to transfer the museum. It is a clear message that people are not willing to accept such thoughts. As far as the questions are concerned, they are specific and I would ask you to answer them. Firstly, what measures will you take to cover all the posts required by the recruitment of permanent staff so that there are standards for the operation of the museum? Also, you need to make sure that the objects found in their natural space are returned. I shall speak in my dentext on a number of issues that the state invokes, as far as accessibility and all that is concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-24-S1-commons.u3	Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-24-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Moraitis, according to the survey carried out by the services and the answers given to me, a number of questions have been answered from 2008 to 2015, nine of you and other Members. Indeed, the Archaeological Museum of Thyrenees after the transfer of the unique archaeological guard in 2011 and despite the negative suggestions of the responsible Archaeological of Antiquities of Aitolokarnania and Lefkada, it does not have permanent prisoners, as well as other museums on Greek territory. So the subject is quite old. Since September 2012, the Museum of Thyrenees has been closed. However, all these years, from 2013 to 2016, tours are held for the general public and educational programs for children per year, as well as cultural events and talks in his yard. It is right, however, to point out that access to cultural heritage is a social right. The services for this purpose are designed to ensure that the museum operates in various ways, i.e. at times with prisoners, from other places, where possible, or opens up in consultation with groups or persons who are going to visit it or for some time more systematically through the recruitment of guards from OAED's public works programmes. Therefore, we would say that the Archaeological Museum of Cyrres opens periodically to the public and to visit groups of citizens and schools in time, after consultation with the relevant curator. In 2016, the museum operated during the period from April to September with the recruitment of a daily guard, which was carried out through the OAED work programme. The Archaeological Department of Antiquities of Aetolokarnania has a large number of archaeological sites and museums. The museums, monuments and spaces of the Antiquities of Istanbul and Lefkada remain open to the public. For the current year, the positions of archbishops for the Epostolokarnania and Lefkada were not approved, as care was taken to fill gaps in museums, monuments and archaeological sites where it is applied according to criteria and visitability, extended working hours for the summer season. I have information on the visitability of the Museum of Cyrres in the years 2013-2016. In addition, I would like to remind you that, as you know, no organic position has been foreseen since the 2014 Agency. I mean the organization of the Ministry of Culture. Already, as you will know, the Ministry of Culture and Sport is working on a new organisational project in the context of the update, improvement and reform of the existing 2014, which has been subject to severe doubts from the outset. With the reform of the organization, care will be taken to give this way a solution to the uninterrupted operation of museums and archaeological sites throughout the territory. In addition, however, the plan of the organization, which is at the end of the process, has long taken action toward the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction in order to fill two hundred positions of the Department of Guard - Information to serve the needs of museums, archaeological sites and archaeological stores in matters of security and security. This procedure is under way, i.e. approved by the General Accounting Office of the State, and pending the act of a Ministerial Council by the Ministry of Interior. On the second point you raised, I shall refer to my denunciation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-24-S1-commons.u5	Here, Mr Moraite, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-24-S1-commons.u6	Madam Minister, you followed the tornado, you gave the answers that your predecessors have given to such questions. Minister, the operation of this museum is a matter of vital importance to the wider region, but also to the inhabitants of this village. And indeed, the operation of the museum, in combination with excavations, can give life to an area that desolates and can contribute to keeping youth there, in an area that, due to the responsible minister sitting next to you - because it is a mountainous rural village - has known poverty, impoverishment, desertification with the agricultural policy that has been pursued. And with the closure of the museum, we lead to the final blow in this area. Of course, we are clearly saying that it is a conscious policy of deterioration. And even though you have referred to it correctly, noting that access to cultural heritage is a popular right, we say that it is not exactly the case. Previously, tickets were made to museums, as in the Museum of Cyrres in the few months that it operates. This is a sample of the fact that, instead of being a people's right, it's a commodity. And don't claim that the price of the ticket is small. It is a sign of where this issue is being taken. It marks how it's measured. It shall be measured under market conditions, in terms of profit. That is what we denounce. Now, with regard to what you are saying about visitability, of course visitability may be low, but we are talking about carrot road networks. There's no access to these villages. Are the residents responsible? We need to make sure the state makes roads, create these conditions. It's like what our people say, where they owed us, they took us the ox. That's right, Minister. 'Cause you followed, like I said, the tornado. So, is it the people who don't have a road network there? One more thing. You say it works from time to time. All right, they're going to school. We demand and ask for what we have told you. You said, after all, that in this year's programme there are no places for Ioannina. Of course, we have another issue. You said it yourself. It's not just the Dyrrion Museum. A series of museums in the country are down. In summer months, they don't even work. An example is the Heraklion Museum and museums in other areas. And what are you guys doing, like the other guys? You're trying to squeeze, with patches to operate the museums. For example, we have quarterly, four-month watchdog contracts or fixed-term contracts that hold people in a work hostage scheme. We say that there must be permanent, stable jobs with full rights to cover all of these storage needs, not only in Thyrrion, but more generally in our country in all the archaeological sites. Madam Minister, I reinstate the right request: we are asking for the museum to function, because, as I said, it is a matter of vital importance. And you said there was no 2014 intake, but there was earlier. Here I have Decision 1903/22-12-2003, which spoke of three organic positions, which were never paid, never went there. You'll tell me it's not your responsibility. We consider it to be a continuation of the same policy. You, too, follow the same policy as the previous ones. As we have said, you are turning people's access to these sites into merchandise. Of course, because we have no delusion that it can within this barbaric system, where it is profit-making, we have such policies aimed at what I said earlier, the promotion of cultural heritage, and it is accessible to all people. We say that there must be a policy of the People's Movement itself, which really serves these needs. Finally, I would ask you to commit that in the summer months at least the museum will work and that it is your intention to have permanent, stable posts for the full operation of the museum. In particular, answer whether there are findings transferred elsewhere. I'm hanging up with this, Minister. Is it not hypocrisy - what I mentioned in my protolog - to claim and say that guardianship requirements are not met when the state itself has no guards? And there were thefts in the past. We also had a certain view that it might also be a policy to devaluate the museum. Once there are no guards, how can there be protection of the findings there? Unfortunately you have left to the archaic cauldrons - and you and others with your policy - the archaics are only in their applause and not with a design to highlight the cultural heritage of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-24-S1-commons.u7	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-24-S1-commons.u8	Mr Moraite, as far as roads are concerned, it is not our responsibility. But I think you did not notice enough the answer I gave you for the 2014 organization, to which we agree, and our intention is to change it. Maybe you didn't notice my answer. I won't come back, so I don't misuse time. As far as those mentioned for the return of ancients and for the change of their position are concerned, we know that antiquities have never been removed from the Archaeological Museum of Thyrenees, according to the report of the responsible authority. Never, that is, ancient finds of the region were transferred to other museums in Greece or to unknown directions, as you said. The museum’s exhibits remain the same and no object has been removed from the exhibition. Therefore, there is no question of their return. You may refer to very little valuable findings, the leaves of a gold crown, which, for security reasons, as well as other very important, valuable findings, are kept in a special space, and this special space is in the unique vault in the area. I would also like to mention that the findings from the region of Thyrenees are included in the already approved myceological study of the archaeological exhibition "The Xenocrates building in Mesolonghi", which will have findings from archaeological sites from all over the Prefecture of Aetolakarnania, when the museum operates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-24-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, MP SYRIZA of the Prefecture of Cyclades, Mr Nikolaos Symmarllene, is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad for personal reasons from 24 March to 27 March 2017. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-24-S1-commons.u10	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Also, MP Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis is seeking permission from his absence abroad, in the USA, from 25 March to 2 April 2017, because he will be there as a guest of the Greek federation, in order to participate in the events on the occasion of the celebration of the National Year. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-24-S1-commons.u11	The House therefore approved the requested permission. The next two questions will be answered by the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Evangelos Apostolos. The fourth question, then, under number 627/20-3-2017, is the first time that the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Michou has been asked to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the occurrence of outbreaks of avian influenza on domestic holdings. Mr. Micho, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-24-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, special attention should be paid to biosecurity measures on their farms following the Ministry's announcement of two new outbreaks of avian influenza in domestic holdings in Arcadia and Florina. More detailedly, the announcement by the Department of Animal Health and Food of the Directorate-General for Agricultural Economy and Veterinary Affairs of the Region of Central Macedonia states: “According to recent information from the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, two new outbreaks of highly pathogenic avian influenza have recently been confirmed in domestic poultry holdings in Arcadia, where the virus is called H5N8, and in Florina, H5. "Portugal owners must therefore pay particular attention to biosafety measures on farms and monitoring parameters for birds, which are still in force and are strengthened, while the preservation of domestic poultry and systemic holdings is mandatory throughout the territory only in enclosed areas. The biosecurity measures adopted for systematic rearing and domestic poultry shall also apply to free-range poultry and organic poultry.’; I ask you: First, what other measures do you intend to take, apart from what you have taken so far, not only to suppress the incubation of the disease but also to prevent it from occurring in the future, given the high risk ratio? Secondly, will the premises of poultry owners be controlled to ensure that they comply with the planned measures? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-24-S1-commons.u13	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-24-S1-commons.u14	It is true that since November 2016 there has been an outbreak of cases throughout Europe and cases have been detected in poultry and wild birds. Indicative of the dimension that this epizootic disease has taken is that there have been confirmed outbreaks of avian influenza in wild birds from twenty-three European countries in three months. The whole of Europe has been affected. In our country, in December 2016, subtype H5N8 was first detected in a wild bird in Evros. Overall, to date, this subtype has been detected in eleven wild birds, and a subtype H5N5 has been detected. We know all the facts and have already taken the necessary steps. The veterinary services provided by the local veterinary services and the services of the Ministry of Agriculture were implemented. We tried with circulars and on-the-spot visits to inform all owners of both livestock and domestic units, because domestic activity is an activity that is very spread in the province. We have already given the relevant instructions to the Ministry's website. What we are really putting as the main priority in our inspections, both in livestock and in domestic animals, is to exhaust all sorts of control, so that we can limit the further spread. But don't forget that we're also talking about wild birds, so you realize that this particular surveillance is very difficult. For the hazard, I'll be placed in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-24-S1-commons.u15	Mr. Micho, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-24-S1-commons.u16	Mr Minister, as you know, I also know that in the past twenty years and back, there were no such diseases. We know very well they're hostiles. A few days ago, I talked to a friend of mine, a vet, who told me about the inspections that are being carried out and that the ministry is trying. However, are these cases and these diseases affliction, are they on purpose? Let us not forget a great deal of cooperation which has recently been done between BAYER and MONSANTO, which makes medicines and much more. They want to make a company that passes the mutants and not just. When I talk about mutants, I mean not only horticultural but also mutated animals. We know very much that the new order of things wants to control everything. So, slowly, as in some states of America, one is not allowed to put a tomato in his orchard, a man living in the village or five chickens is forbidden to have a sprout in his home. So, slowly, dropping various diseases, as you said before, when birds are first taken out - it's nothing to provoke viruses - they come to the poultry farms. You're from Evia, too, as am I. You know very well how many poultry farms the Baitata region had, how many poultry farms my area had, how many poultry farms all of Evia and how many of them exist so far. She or these diseases, these cases never existed. Every year, every second year, there are new diseases, new viruses. I guess, as things show, it's a set-up game, and I hope I'm going out, a liar, that all of this is being done deliberately. I hope that your Ministry will do everything possible to avoid more incidents along the way, of course, to stop this evil. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-24-S1-commons.u17	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-24-S1-commons.u18	I cannot agree with you on drunk scripts from multinationals. We're doing our job. We have an image in front of us, which shows that there is a specific epizootic disease throughout Europe, how much more so when it is transmitted by wild birds. In a scenario like you say, it is not possible to incorporate wild birds. What I want to stress is that, as regards the risk to public health, according to all the analyses that have been carried out so far, there is no danger to humans, and indeed, for any debate on this subject, I can say that this debate is being conducted by serving other methods. There is, however, no such issue, of course, and in Greek society there is this fear of public health. So, on the basis of what we have planned, on the basis of the possibilities we have, all the services will be constantly in a process of monitoring. Everything shows that in a country like ours, where fauna, I would say, mainly consisting of migratory birds, you realize that, whatever we do, we cannot avoid such epizootic diseases. What we can and shall do is to make effective intervention, both in poultry units and, of course - and we stress it once again - in domestic poultry farming, in the villages, in the yards, in the stables, as far as possible at this time as possible to limit these poultry so that we do not have any further spread. It is a epizootic disease that we believe that, when the period of migration of migratory birds passes, these will be carried out on a normal footing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-24-S1-commons.u19	Thank you. Now it is the first row with number 630/21-3-2017, a topical question by MP Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Panayotas Vranjas to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the impending liquidation of inactive agricultural cooperatives and the exploitation of their assets, which will also be answered by Mr. Apostleos. Mrs. Vanja, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-24-S1-commons.u20	Thank you. Minister, in accordance with L.4384/2016, any agricultural cooperatives operating and registered in the National Register of Agricultural Cooperatives shall be obliged by 26 April 2017 to amend their statutes, in accordance with the new legislative provisions, and to adapt to the number of members of the twenty natural persons. Cooperatives which have not adapted their statutes within the period laid down shall be deleted from the register. In addition, cooperatives that have not applied for first registration in the register of L.4015/2011 or have registered in it as inactive, at the time of entry into force of Law4384, also have a deadline by 26 April either to merge with other cooperatives registered in the register or to decide whether to resolve and clear them. The designated clearers shall have an obligation to make an inventory of the property of the cooperative cleared and compile balance sheet, a copy of which they shall submit to the competent authority. In any case, this must be done within one year of the solution of the cooperative. Of course, in order to submit the balance sheet to the competent authority, the cooperatives and accounting records should have their hands, which is not always easy. The same balance sheet obligation shall be applied at the end of the liquidation. Where the liquidation is extended, the balance sheet shall be drawn up at the end of each year. The law provides that the liquidation procedure must be completed not later than two years. However, if the liquidation phase exceeds five years, the liquidator is obliged to convene a general assembly - and this is not easy for cooperatives, I must tell you, who are not active - to which he submits a plan for speeding up and closing the clearance for approval. Minister, from the outlines mentioned above, it is clear that in the next few years an important issue will arise for a number of primary and secondary cooperatives throughout the country. Those who have a zero balance sheet and who are inactive will be wound up and their assets will be placed in the public sector. I'm talking about warehouses, plots, tractors, patches and so on. However, on the basis of the current legislative framework, they are seriously questioned: will there be interest in doing so by clearers in taking office, due to the limited financial resources - the assets of most cooperatives? Will the procedure for the liquidation of cooperatives really be completed within the planned timeframe set by the legislature? Last, and more importantly, what will be the use of the assets of the cooperatives in liquidation? So the question I am asking here today, Mr Minister, is, firstly, whether on the part of the Ministry there is the necessary preparation for the uninterrupted and timely completion of the procedures for the liquidation of all the small and medium-sized agricultural cooperatives and, secondly, what is the Ministry's planning for the possibility of using the assets to the Greek public. I'm obviously not talking about the newly established organism that exists in v. 4384, the DIAGE. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-24-S1-commons.u21	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-24-S1-commons.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, in your timely question, I would say that there is a problem between rural areas and the operation of cooperation. Madam President, I would like a little tolerance because there have been too many issues of particular interest to farmers. In the electronic register of cooperatives, four thousand cooperatives have been written in the last years. With L.4384/2016, as you said, we have allowed time for cooperatives to adapt their statutes with the new law, with a penalty for deletion from the register and the supervisory authority to complete the assessment of all cooperatives. At the beginning of the evaluation of two thousand forty - three cooperatives were found out of the register, because they were inactive for many years. In the evaluation process, which will be completed in a few days, it has remained about two thousand. Of these, with an initial assessment, another thousand will come out of the register and, of the thousand to remain, about four hundred fifty are the ones who will have some status. What about their cleanup? We have three categories of cooperatives we need to manage. Firstly, it is the cooperatives that are already in liquidation and, above all, former associations of agricultural cooperatives. Secondly, it is the cooperatives that will now be wound up and have assets, with or without debt, and, thirdly, cooperatives that will be wound up and have no assets, whether or not they have debts. The first case, as I said, is already under way and the clearer, has to liquidate assets to cover creditors present in this category. It is a process that we cannot stir up. Interesting in this case is that there are production facilities available to the cooperatives, and there, therefore, it is our obligation to monitor the process, because you know how late these procedures are and how long they take. The second case concerns cooperatives that are to be wound up and have assets. If they have debts, the clearer and there will complete the process. If they have no debts, they have no problem. They go on, but few. The third case is the case of cooperatives that will be put into liquidation without assets, and of course this case, in accordance with the law, can be with rapid procedures. In any case, after the evaluation by the competent authority has been completed, when there will be a definitive picture of the situation of cooperatives, then we have actually prepared and taken legislative initiatives - we cannot take legislative initiatives without legislative initiatives - in order to resolve both the issues of liquidation, the issues that will arise, but above all the use of the productive elements of cooperatives. The big issue and our big problem are to what extent the debts of these cooperatives are covered by mortgages entered in relation to their debts. In my dentistry, we're going to get into this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-24-S1-commons.u23	Here, Mrs Vanja, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-24-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, these three accusations do exist. I have to tell you that there are already partnerships in liquidation. Clearance lasts longer than I said. So we need to see what happens with the clearing procedures beyond that. I would therefore like to highlight the size of the issue for the whole of the agricultural world, and I would like to point out that only in Thessaly, cooperatives are over two hundred and thousands of members. Especially in Carditsa, in which I am elected, according to the official information I have requested and received from the competent departments of the Ministry of Rural Development, namely the Department of Economic Control and Inspection, there are eighty-nine registered cooperatives in the National Register of Agricultural Cooperatives, sixty-nine of which, that is, the vast majority, have been registered as inactive. Therefore, according to the recent law we passed in 2016, either merged with active cooperatives or solved and cleared up by 26 April. Of course, according to the Ministry's own Office - and I say this to hear - decisions to resolve and settle cooperatives in Carditsa have not been registered and, therefore, it is not yet known to the relevant departments of the Ministry which cooperatives are in liquidation or merger. I would also like to say that the Karditsa Agricultural Cooperatives Association has been in liquidation for some years and has not yet been submitted to the Office of the Ministry of Finance. On this basis, Minister, it is clear that the Ministry does not have a safe picture of the critical economic sizes and the situation that will arise for the Carditsa cooperatives and I suspect that the same incomplete picture has, unfortunately, also been found for the cooperatives throughout the territory. I believe, however, that timely and valid information on these critical economic data is a prerequisite for the Ministry's necessary and appropriate preparation of the scene after 26 April. Without this necessary mapping of the economic data of agricultural cooperatives, without knowing what the basic figures are and the real picture are, and what picture we will be having to deal with in the next few days, it is certain that we will not have a substantial result in the end. In other words, we will not be able to act effectively in the direction of rapid progress - it is important to 'fast' - to complete the relevant procedures and to reach a clearing product, which is in the interests of the rural economy, especially at a time when the genuinely active and willingly working farmers are seeking to create new cooperative schemes and partnerships. Of course, all of this must be done on the basis of not only the public assets and we must ensure that they actually catch a place, but also the human factor, since all these cooperatives that we are talking about are numbering thousands of members. A further question therefore arises: what will happen with the obligations of the members in respect of the outstanding debts of these cooperatives? In any case, Minister, I am giving you the concern and anguish of the rural world - not only in my region, but also in the rest of the country - for the future and the development of the whole process, a process that I hope will not block the scratches of bureaucracy or the indifference of the ministries' services and will not take place for a long time without any substantial result. This is a process that I hope the Ministry of Rural Development will find a real supporter and a sick and I hope that it will ultimately be for the benefit of the country's rural world, for the benefit of the real economy and for the benefit of the public interest. I would like you, Minister, to mention a few things about the newly established ODIAGE organization and tell us what we are working on in order to make use of the property that will come into the public domain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-24-S1-commons.u25	Here, Minister, you have the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-24-S1-commons.u26	Let us see a little what the economic situation of cooperatives is today, because this is the key part we need to see how we manage for the next day. As a whole, cooperatives are due due due to the former Agricultural Bank, the clearer, 850 million euros. In Piraeus, to which the Agricultural Bank was transferred, it owes EUR 450 million. In the public for income and VAT 220 million euros. In the IKA and in general the insurance area owes EUR 300 million. In other words, we have an internal $1.82 billion. If we do not add the sums of EUR 580 million that the European Commission has forced us to seek from cooperatives, then we will reach EUR 2.4 billion. We do not know what the amount owed to third parties is. So you realise that the problem is 'burning'. When in a debate in the Committee on Production and Trade I referred to what we should do and how we should manage in particular the part of the recoveries, a colleague of the opposition party responsible for the problem that was created, you know what he answered to me? "We did it. If you recover them, the responsibility shall be yours.’ We're talking about an area in which we all have to work consensually. So let's get one thing straight. Those of these organisations that have economic viability will help them as long as we can. If there is no economic viability, we will not be in a process of resurrecting dead situations. From that point on, I want to make one thing clear. It does not mean that the cases of mismanagement and dismantling of public and social money observed in some cases in the cooperatives in previous years will be eradicated. Already some have taken the path of justice and others are already in the process of control. We will be next to the farmers and the cooperatives in an attempt to reorganise the space. The course of cleansing, I would say, has been in trouble, because there has not been a corresponding response from their part to date. However, when we are faced with a procedure of debts, as I said before, and do not know how to go, we expect the assessment to be completed at the same time, and within the framework of the treatment of loans in general, to see what we will do for them as a basic parameter of keeping the production process in place. There too, legislative initiatives are needed and, as you can see, the finance ministers of the government also need consultation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-24-S1-commons.u27	The topical and urgent debate is closed. I wish you a good three-day day. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-24-S1-commons.u28	With the consent of the House at 10.51 the sitting on Monday, March 27, 2017, at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
