ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-07-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the topical and urgent debate, I have the honour of announcing to the House the issue of Friday 8 December 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 570/5-12-2017 of the Greek Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Dimitrios Mardas, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Mond cultures: Important losses of revenues for the public, the inability of new licenses and illegal activities". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 573/5-12-2017 by MP Kilkis of the New Democracy Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: “No individual needs for firewood in violation of the law”. 3. Under No 488/1-12/2017, the timely question by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "The first place in the face of the auction wave prepared by the Government and no arrangement for red housing loans". 4. The question raised by Mr Georgios Amyras, Member of Parliament, with number 486/1-12-2017, by Mr.Athens, Mr. Georgios Amyras, Minister for Economic Affairs and Development, on the subject: "No one of a "leak" house in the hands of a banker." B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question raised by Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou, Member of the Achaias Parliamentary Committee of the Democratic Association of the PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou, Minister for Migration Policy, on the subject: "Great dangers for the future of the refugee from the wrong policy of the Ministry". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We begin with the seventh under number 566/5-12-2017, a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Aetolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr.Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister of the Interior, concerning the lack of staff and equipment in the Amphichia Forestry. The Minister of Interior will answer Mr. Panagiotis Skourletis. Mr Mauritius, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-07-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in desperation there are the farmers in the wider area that are in the Amphichia Forestry. The huge deficiencies in the staffing of the Forestry, technological and engineering equipment, have led to the desperation of hundreds of farmers, while waiting for two and three years to obtain a certificate - an act of status for the issue of a statistic installation, which is an essential condition, to continue their productive activity. They are also in front of pressing dates for the payment of organic livestock for the past five years and other programmes. Moreover, these delays in characterisation are an obstacle, as I mentioned, to a series of daily activities for the poor and middle farmers in the region. The situation at the Forestry Department is explosive. It is within the five largest forests in the country, covering an area of almost two million acres, while the staff that exist are incomplete. Even this archaic organogram, which is the 1980s, which does not currently cover today's needs, does not even cover 50%. For example, he has only two forestry engineers. One of them is the lead. There are ten rangers, and in fact twenty are needed. The same is true of other specialties. The same situation and worse still prevails with the administrative staff. Also, the towel, Minister, in the budgets of the forests has led, from the testimony of the workers themselves in the Forestry, to the immobilization of the cars. That means they can't get out of the service. And if they're still coming out, they go out by putting gas out of their pocket, the workers in the area. In our opinion, the responsibilities of all the governments and the current one that took over from the previous ones are enormous and time-consuming, which is degrading the function of forestry government services, which have as its competence and what I mentioned above, as well as the forest protection of our country and forests. In recent years, of course, this has deteriorated. You ask, Mr Minister: what measures will you take to ensure that the forests are managed with the necessary staff, scientific staff and other workers, so that they can meet the needs of not only farmers, but also those of forest protection in the region? Because we also have many problems there, which I shall say in my denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-07-S1-commons.u3	Good. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-07-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Moraitis, the description of the shortcomings in the Department of Amphisia is very close to reality, so that there is a great burden on the unsatisfactory workers, but, above all, on the part of the citizens, farmers, as you said, who are traded, cannot satisfy their needs, in a reasonable period of time, not to obtain the corresponding approvals, etc. Nowadays, in the Amphilogy Forestry, ten forest guards, two foresters, two foresters, one administrative and financial, three specialty officials and one ICP technician are employed. In 2014, there had been a competition through ASP for thirteen posts, not three came, not empty, and the situation was even worse. The thoughts at the moment, but also the practice that has been in place in the recent past and which will be chosen, and now, are to be assigned for the exercise of parallel duties by the neighbouring Forestry of Agrinio and Messology. That is what the coordinator of the decentralised administration intends to do, and from that point on - as far as I know - the relevant Ministry of the Environment is thinking of resorting to the resolution of a seasonal staff in order to be able to support the Forestry of Amphisia. At the same time, the Ministry of Rural Development has shown to a sufficient extent the flexibility required so that in some cases it does not ask for the completion of certain permits, but with the submission of the request, the citizens can be asked to do so. Of course it will be crucial for the work that is now being done, for the new organograms from the decentralised administrations, which will illustrate the real needs and the mobility regime, which will be implemented, to be able to meet some of the needs. It is a situation which, as you have mentioned, is problematic. You are aware of the restrictions on recruitment. We are trying - and with the moves I mentioned to you before - at least for a short-term future, to be able to overcome some obstacles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-07-S1-commons.u5	Good, Minister. Here, Mr Moraite, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-07-S1-commons.u6	Minister, you have not in essence responded to any of the major problems facing the Amphilogy Forestry. And it seems that it is not your intention to give solutions. What you said would carry a volume of work to the nearest Forestry in the Agrinio and Messology or in Nafpaktos has been done, so there are no solutions, however, Minister. I mentioned - I do not know what your information is - that there are farmers waiting for this paper, which is necessary for two and three years. We're talking about the Forestry of Amphichia having a threefold volume of the rest of the prefecture in terms of issuing these attestations. Of course, what you said the Ministry of Rural Development would give assurances, did so under the struggle and pressure of farmers. There has been an amendment that has been made to these provisional assurances. But that doesn't say anything at all. When the dates are due, because there are final dates, Minister, in May 2018, there should be stack permits. If they do not give a definitive solution by then, these farmers will be forced to pay back money. And then we tell you that the situation will take explosive proportions, because this world is unpaid, Minister, has been paid for 2012 and 2013 and is unpaid for 2014, for 2015, for 2016 and they are now entering new programs. So it's an explosive situation and it's not now solved with patches or stings, what you mentioned. Of course, this is a conscious political depreciation of forests, as I mentioned. Besides, you do this to a number of public bodies. You Government has instituted the breeder. All the other services available to farmers are downgraded, subordinated, such as the DRLs. It's not just the office problem. Of course this issue with the Forestry Department is explosive, for the reason I mentioned earlier. Of course, it's not just the office case about getting the certificate. As you know, there are serious delays in both municipalities and regions on the request of the statistic facilities. So the problem of being out of these dates is visible. And the consequences will be explosive. Minister, we have to report here - and you know very well - that in the area when environmental crime is being committed, with fast track procedures, they are giving two - three days' leave, not to say in hours. One case was on your part at the Ministry of the Environment, which, of course, you have stopped at the last minute. But at the moment we're talking, there's environmental crimes in the area, which is the responsibility of the Forestry of Amphichia. The Acarnaean mountains are plummeting to get investors to power. You've delivered everything to them. In any case, we have no illusions that you will give a solution to these issues. But we call on the inhabitants of the region to take the case in their hands and fight. And as with their struggle, they forced you to give these temporary solutions, so they force you, to give solutions that, in fact, will respond to today's needs, which will solve once and for all the problem in the forest area. Minister, we're telling you again that neither moves nor going to adjacent forests will solve the problem. There's got to be a staffing. And answer that, Minister, the toweling of these budgets I mentioned to you is not something that we are saying and risking. It's a real matter. They don't have gasoline to drive cars. And because on-the-spot checks are being carried out on the premises, there is no money for the officials to move. We therefore call for and claim - and we and the farmers in the region - that the great problem be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-07-S1-commons.u7	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-07-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Moraite, in the findings, information and a description of the situation, I think we agree 90% to 95%. From there I told you before that the selection of parallel tasks, which is obviously an aspirin option, had been made in the past. But now it is not the case and we must re-activate it. Because there are immediate needs which need to be met so that we do not lose any of the dates that you have said, and by May of next year, we have completed the requests that have been made. I would like to repeat to you once again, as I have said before, that, particularly at this stage of institutional change, such as the training of new forest maps, there is a need for seasonal staff. And I think, finally, that the relevant Ministry of the Environment will choose this solution, which will dismantle the situation. Be careful, however, now, because on the occasion of the operation not only of this forest office, there is the following that is related to the creation and nature of the decentralised administrations. While administratively they fall within the Ministry of the Interior, they implement a policy corresponding to other ministries according to the sector. One is planning, another is responsible for politics and another is responsible for the administration, and this is the experience that comes from too many aspects and from the people of self-government, as well as from the local communities - many cases because of this nature of decentralised administration going back and having a malfunction. In this sense, the work we are doing now in the Ministry of the Interior is very timely, to change the institutional framework to the self-government of "Kallikrates" to see again the issue of the establishment of the decentralised administration, so that, with a different structure, every service is directly subject to the respective ministries, so that we can solve problems rather than go through the Ministry of Interior, as is the case with various ministries. The Ministry of Education, for example, has a vertical structure of this kind. From there on it is not difficult to list the problems that have been experienced in the country as a result of the memorandum policies. We'll agree. Where we are going to disagree, it is how we deal with them, because the description or, in general, the analogy and complaints about this policy have its value but it also has its limits on effectiveness. So, systemically, the government is trying to organize a road that, despite the contradictions, difficulties, uncertainties, can lead the country to such a situation so that it can end the effects of these policies and heal wounds for which, in many cases, you know, it is not your fault. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-07-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with the ninth with the ninth number 568-5-12-2017 topical question of the Attica MP of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Giokas to the Minister of the Interior, on the disasters of floods in Western Attica and the necessary flood protection in Attica. The Minister for the Interior, Mr Skourletis, will reply to this timely question. Mr. Gioka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-07-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. The question, as has been said, relates to anti-military protection in Attica as a whole. Before entering the substance of the question and with the tolerance of the Bureau, I would like to make a point of order, which is largely related to what the Minister mentioned in the previous question. In our opinion, we also have a more comprehensive problem with the anti-military problem, the problem of anti-military projects facing Attica and the whole of the country. What is this procedural labelling? This question, Mr President-in-Office, was initially tabled to the Ministry of Infrastructure. In fact, I see today in the Topical and urgent Question Time that other Members of Parliament who have tabled similar or similar topical questions are addressing them to the Ministry of Infrastructure. From the Minister for Infrastructure's office we have been informed that it is irresponsible, because all the flooding projects have gone to the regions, so the question should be addressed to the Ministry of the Interior, which we are doing today. This, of course, is half the truth, because there is a series of anti-military protection projects, which are still under the responsibility of the Ministry of Infrastructure. Even now in official reports, they are referred to as such projects of responsibility of the Ministry of Infrastructure. For example, in official reports on the settlement of the stream of Rafina or the stream of Espatia, the project promoter refers to the Sub-Medium, the Department of Anti-Military and Essential Works. This also applies in other cases. Mr. Spirtzis, Minister for Infrastructure, was who, on 7-9-2017, assured the residents of Minidi that they would proceed to a series of necessary hydronomial works in the mountainous tumor of Parnitha. So one thing is that. So who's responsible, Minister? The other is the regions, elsewhere they are the Ministry, elsewhere they are the other Ministry. And we end up with no responsibility, nothing is done about anti-military protection, which is primarily a matter of central planning rather than fragmentation. In fact, the question, as you know, and our party and many others have characterised the disaster in the West Attica as a lasting crime, which has been committed for years against the people of the region. It is a crime that has as its principal responsibility the time-lag policy implemented by all governments along with regional and local authorities and leads to the well-known results. In 2017, with a autumn storm of half an hour from Athens, lives and property were lost. What the people of the region have told us from the start, because a lot of talk has been about climate change and the others, is that what they have lived, lives it every year for decades. Sometimes it's the Mesogeia, sometimes it's Liosia, sometimes it's Mandra, sometimes it's Mesogeia, eastern Attica. But they've lived for decades with that fear and that danger. In a sense, it is also the mirror of a growth that exists, the anarchy and barbaricity of capitalist growth that has been served by the previous governments, and you are also serving it at the level of the government and at the level of the region in which you are in command. On the one hand, there is an unregulated housing development, without any plan for public housing. Technical projects designed to make profit, cover, prevent streams from large-scale technical projects such as enterprises. This is the basic problem and not the people's homes, as some have said. Here are projects such as Attica Street, the new airport, the HYTA in the Graphics, that cause flooding problems. There is a lack of single-planning projects per aqueduct. On the one hand, all this is on the other, and on the other, human life is, literally, at the mercy of natural phenomena. In addition to the responsibilities that the regional and local authorities have, in our opinion, primarily the responsibility of the government, which not only did what it had to do, not only confirmed that there is no cause for concern - and I call on the Ministry of the Environment to do so in the case of Nea Peramos, where it said that there is no cause for concern - but also today there are no plans to resolve these urgent problems of anti-military protection of Attica, when according to your own figures - we invoke it in a preliminary study, there are areas of Attica which potentially affect three million people, where there may be similar phenomena. That is not our evidence. They're yours. We are therefore asking what measures the government will take to solve the flood problem in Attica, and we are also asking what measures it will take to compensate people for 100%, because what you announced is not enough for the elementary ones either. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-07-S1-commons.u11	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-07-S1-commons.u12	Mr. Gioka, first of all - I don't know if this was the case by mistake or if this reflects your perception - you talked about a autumn rain...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-07-S1-commons.u13	I didn't talk about autumn rain. I talked about a storm. Another rain, another storm.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-07-S1-commons.u14	So it's a autumn storm? That is, if you believe it, shows a reduced ecological sensitivity to the problems the planet has today. Because the issues of climate change - and we cannot play - are real, it is true. I agree that they can't be the alibi. Just because these phenomena are more dense, there is the need for a much more serious anti-military armour and a plan which must be there very quickly and has not been the responsibility of the previous governments for decades. The responsibilities are, of course, time-consuming, but these responsibilities must not be disgusted. Of course, I wonder how a folk party, as it wants to define itself, in the vicinity of local societies and local problems, does not recognize the enormous responsibilities of this political system, whose print is the unrealistic way of development, micro-accuracy as an alibi of great arbitraryness, always wanting to serve the great interests. This is the situation that our country is experiencing, perhaps in Attica because of the overpopulation and the many congested uses in this region, but also in other regions. To say'symptoms and vessels' and not generally make an inexpensive general criticism. Spatial planning is therefore anarchy precisely as a choice of this productive model that has been responsible for the political system of the New Democracy and PASOK over the last few decades that served it. From there on, the response of the fire brigade and the self-government forces to most of the cases, not only in the case of Mandra and Nea Peramos, but overall in Europe in the last year it has been irreversible. With engraved services? With a few means? Yes, but there has been a response, which, of course, is also credited to the planning of the political leadership. That is to say, when there is no criticism of the political leadership and when it is in place, we cannot generally assume that it has nothing to do with this planning. From there on, you spoke of responsibilities. Responsibilities are distributed and you know it well. Another is the responsibility of the municipalities at the level of a few smaller rhetorics, especially in mountain areas, where they have exclusive responsibility, another is for the regions responsible for the ravages, their management, their cleaning, and others for the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Infrastructure, which are responsible for the major flooding projects. There is this division of responsibilities. Does it have to be clarified? It needs to be cleared up. Is there a need for a holistic intervention? Sure. And that is exactly what we are at right now. And that's what the Ministry of Infrastructure does, is working on a master plan as a whole for the West Attica. I can inform you that in West Attica at the moment, anti-military works are being carried out about EUR 4.50,000, 000, and four other works are being auctioned and six others are being tendered, a total budget of EUR 17.100,000. In particular - and I end with this, because I want to be within my time, Mr President - there is the very serious issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-07-S1-commons.u15	Minister, I'm sorry. There is tolerance from the Bureau. The questions which are to be discussed are very few, so you have the time you and the Members of Parliament have the necessary time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-07-S1-commons.u16	Good. From there on, I shall refer to the issue of relief. As you know, it has started for some days now and this EUR 5 000 aid for natural persons and 8 000 for businesses has already been provided - never in Greece has there been such a rapid response - while, on the basis of the standard legislative provision, it is related to compensation for damages to homes, businesses, the restoration, with repair, with the construction, of all the ministries involved in this case, which are the ministries of labour, infrastructure, economics and interiors, have been activated. In particular, the municipalities of Attica in total 2016 and 2017, with the amount of EUR 2,725.000, and in particular for Mandra, have currently been allocated EUR 500,000 for the restoration of natural disasters and EUR 250,000 for water and network issues. Also, 400,000 euros have been allocated to the Municipality of Megarion. We therefore know what the picture is. It is important to realise all our responsibilities and to be able to organise the next day in such a way that we do not again meet with such situations and such tragic results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-07-S1-commons.u17	Mr. Gioka, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-07-S1-commons.u18	Minister, you probably did not hear a few things that were mentioned in the development of my question and made the mistake of twisting it as you think. You talked about climate change and whether it was a autumn storm, etc. Do you know what the residents told us, Minister? We were told "What we lived a few days ago and in '77, we lived it and in '83, we lived it and '96' etc. So what kind of climate change are we talking about? And then climate change was last year due to the Menidium and Haidari and the Saints Anargyrus? Is it always the climate change? And what kind of climate change is it that only hits poor people's neighborhoods? Other, then, climate change, which is an issue and it is another thing that here is political responsibilities of the previous governments all these years and yours. You say we put it all in a bag and there's anarchy here. But didn't I refer to that? Didn't I mention it? Didn't we say what happened is the mirror of the anarchist and barbaric capitalist development path? On the one hand, we have an unregulated residential development, no plans for people's housing over the years, for decades, technical projects that have been made on the basis of profit, without the necessary standards, anti-military projects that are not made. Didn't you hear that? So what do you say I'm slapping and so on?Huh? At the same time, however, we say that this policy, followed by the New Democracy and the PASOK, is being followed by you too. That's what we're saying. You want to say these were forty years and you three? Of course, I'll take it. But you follow her too. And we're going to evidence. What about the anti-military protection of Attica? The studies say that you need 2,000,000 euros, what you give for the F-16. The Prime Minister said - if I remember correctly, he was on the matter with Mr Kammenos here in Parliament - a EUR 1 billion increase in the Public Investment Programme, of which 250 million would be allocated for the flooding projects. That is what the Prime Minister said. Where is that envelope in the 2018 budget? Mr Tsakalotos was asked in the debate in the committee on the preliminary draft budget. Where is what the Prime Minister said, the EUR 250 million? Show it to us. Where is it recorded? Nowhere. Mr. Chakalotos didn't answer. Have you anticipated such an increase in the Ministry of Interior's Public Investment Program? There isn't. Reduced is the budget of the Ministry of Interior as regards the Public Investment Programme. For the Ministry of Infrastructure, do you know what the Public Investment Program says? It will cover projects to improve motorways, transport, etc., i.e. all projects which facilitate and contribute to capital, because they have the return. Because anti-milling doesn't take a toll. Also, these works are progressing fast track. And here's bureaucracy. But there's only bureaucracy here. But there's no bureaucracy. Region of Attica 2017: EUR 12.9 million for flooding projects and urban renovations, which is the pleasure of the contractor, EUR 84 million. Eighty million euros up to 2023 for anti-military projects only, based on the MSF at Attica carried out under the Dures administration. That is why we say that you are continuing the same policy and it seems from the evidence. Otherwise, tell us that 'we will give one, two, three to meet a series of needs' and do not be affected. Because the anarchy of growth all these years and we've been tracking it and you might be able to track it. The point is what you're doing to change. That is the question, Minister, which you must answer. Because, at the moment in Attica, based on your own studies, there are areas where there may be such or similar phenomena, which potentially affect three million people. We don't. You say that. So the issue of anti-military protection, in our view, is urgent! - and from this point of view, the people must, along with their fight for the cut-off, for their work, for the auctions, for all the problems they face, put this issue at the forefront of their struggle.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-07-S1-commons.u19	Mr Minister, before I give you the floor, let me make a statement. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty students and students and four educational attendants from the 2nd Municipal School of Peristeri. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-07-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Gioka, I am glad that we are finally starting to see what 'climate change' means, what is its importance, what is its role today and who was thirty years ago. Obviously - because you did not only listen to them, we have heard them - in these areas there have sometimes been severe flooding phenomena, as well as loss of life. That is exactly what shows and confirms what we were saying, what you and we, for the way the cities were developed, designed or not planned. Sometimes they were designed. It was a choice. It didn't happen. It was a choice when in Mandra in 2003 the revision of the General Urban Plan on the stream provided for the creation of large storage areas or large industrial facilities. Because maybe the earth was cheap. 'Cause maybe that's the way it was. For perhaps this land belonged to ETVA's "sinner" and perhaps it was very easy, under the command of the political leadership at the time, to cut the earth apart and to be given the opportunity to some large businesses. But I don't want to say things in a different way. Capitalist development also exists in other European countries. Such anarchy, however, does not exist in Greece's size and extent. There the concept of spatial planning seems to have muddled the way cities are developing, growing and planning. Here were weights for some. Or, at any rate, other clienteles - political relations have forced them to stand aside. When you talk about funds intended for flood protection, you should not only look at the Public Investment Programme, but also those from co-financed programmes, from the NSRF. And that's where specific numbers were announced. The current administration of the region has a programme which is about ten times as much as it has received in connection with the Attica anti-military armour. That's a reality. Do I agree that there are such procedures that lead us to lose critical months? Let me agree. And I repeat, in order to come to what I said before, that this is exactly where our effort is being identified today: in addition to the more comprehensive planning that Attica needs, we can see how we will make more efficient, simpler procedures so that in a shorter time, where the funds have been secured - because in specific cases we have the funds - they can be converted into projects immediately and, of course, we can also see the issue of overlapping and competences. I think there are many possibilities for understanding, confrontation, even if you want to take parallel action in this area. You don't have to support the government as a whole. You don't have to join the government. We didn't ask you to do that. Wherever we need to create those social and political conditions to put aside those forces which underestimate the popular interests, the interests of local society, the interests of many, we can find ourselves in a common stepping-up. I think that call, whatever you do, at least you can't ignore it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-07-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The third, with number 485,1-12-2017, top-circuit question of the first cycle of the Athens MP of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "To stop the terrorism and persecution of the supermarket workers "Karapidis", ensure their right to work and pay their wages," will not be discussed due to the absence of the relevant Minister, Mr. Ahcioglou abroad. Also, the third question with number 565/5-12-2017, the second question of the Member of Parliament, Achaias, the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the workers at the 'Europe' distribution agency, will not be discussed due to the absence of the relevant Minister, Mr Ahtsioglou, abroad. We continue with the first with number 415/16-10-2017 question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister of Administrative Reconstruction, on mobilisation of members of one parent family in the recruitment procedures through ASP and in the notices of L.2643/1998. The Minister for Administrative Reconstruction will answer Mr. Olga Gerovalis. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor to develop the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-07-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. I hope that, following the theories of support for modern capitalism which we have heard from the Minister and the recommendations of the JRC, in my own question, we have specific answers. It is a question which was tabled as a written question and because of the fact that it has not been answered I asked to be discussed in plenary. It concerns mobilisation of members of single parent families in public recruitment procedures - through AEPs - and in the notices of Law 2643/1998. In the recruitment procedures of contractors, known as ‘Octadeniers’, there are specific provisions providing for moleculosis of single parent families. The same as Law 3454/2006, single-parent families with three children are treated as multiples and receive the necessary social care. Unfortunately, however, single parent families and especially those who arise as one parent after their death of one of the two parents have no special support for public recruitment procedures through ADP. What I am asking to know is whether the Ministry intends directly to correct what I identify and point out in terms of the unfair treatment of single parent families and the recruitment of public permanent or undetermined staff and the procedures of Law 2643. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-07-S1-commons.u23	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-07-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Kegeroglu, you are really right to ask the question, because it is right, it is right to talk about the special care that the state should have for single parents. In fact - as you mentioned - Law 3454/2006 assimilates single-parent families with three children with multiples of molecules in public recruitment procedures. There is also a number of other measures that we have at our disposal, a set of social provisions, which aim to strengthen the institution of the family and which are provisions, both concerning the direct appointment of a family member or the mobilisation of participation in competitive procedures for recruitment to the public. Law 2643, which deals with quotas in the recruitment notices, for both the public and the private sectors, is in favour of persons belonging to the protected social groups, namely those in special categories such as many, the survivor or single parent of three minors - as you have said - as well as the MEPs, the National Resistance Fighters, the disabled of war and the third parties with legislative intervention which has been taken place recently by the Government. These categories also provide for mobilisation of the family situation with special care in favour of single parent families in particular. Although the rule is to provide 20 molecules for each member of the household, i.e. for one member there will be 20 molecules, for two members - married without children -40 molecules, three members - married to one child -60 molecules, exceptionally for the divorced or single child under the custody of one or more children, on a case-by-case basis, the corresponding molecules of the married couple with children are calculated. In other words, in the case of divorced or single child, not 40 molecules are administered but 60 molecules. So there's a difference in moleculosis for the parent of a single parent family. The same law provides that if the child protected is an orphan from a parent and is up to twenty-five years old, or if there is children or orphans in the family of the child, up to twenty-five years old and single, then the number of molecules resulting is increased by 100 molecules in total, regardless of the number of children. The same concern applies to the child of a single mother who is not recognized as being treated - as I have said before - legally with the orphan child. There is therefore an additional and specific moleculosis. Apart from these protected categories provided for in the law you have said, in relation to Law 2190 concerning recruitment to the public by means of an APA and a special moleculation is provided here. In particular, for invitations to tender for temporary staff - as you said - the parent of a single parent family is rated at 50 points for each child, but each single parent family is also rated at 50 points. Thus, when candidates are parents of minors or parents or children of teen - aged or third families receive the total score prescribed by Law 2190 for each of the properties. In any case, however, you are giving me the opportunity here to really point out that the Ministry, and for our part, intends to see, within the constitutional limits of the protection of these special categories, the possible specific mobilisation of the family situation and the recruitment through ASPs of permanent staff or personnel of indefinite duration. In other words, we will also have a debate with the AACC in order to see what we can increase moleculity. And, of course, we realise - and you are right - that the percentages of single parent families in particular in the context of the crisis have increased and we must further strengthen this social group, which we intend to consider. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-07-S1-commons.u25	Mr Kegeroglu has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-07-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, your answer to the question is essentially documentary, because you mentioned all cases of support for single parents with one and two children when recruiting contractors and within the categories provided for by Law 2643 as protected. In fact, you have referred in detail. I would say that this intention of you on the question of reviewing or examining the possibility of supporting single parents with one and two children or no matter how many of the 'three or more' children - because in some categories there is - is to be done immediately because, as has been said, problems with the crisis are mainly the vulnerable groups, the vulnerable categories of the population, more than the others. In fact, in this period recruitment is being started, because they are slowly being released from the ban procedure. For example, the Ministry of Culture is currently ready to issue the notice, but in which it is not intended to do so. While it mobilises or supports contractors - and it does - the pre-service it exists, unemployment and the other criteria contained in Law 2190 do not exist in this very serious social criterion. I would say that it needs immediate treatment in order not to create felony and injustices. As far as Law 2643 is concerned, what should be considered, in my view, is to be a self-evident charge and not within those who are already protected, because the only parent family needs protection, particularly when we have a family with two parents who have taken on financial burdens, credit obligations, etc. and the main supporter of the family is lost. Income is therefore lost, but liabilities remain. In this case, especially if you consider the burdensome arrangement for widows and widows in relation to pensions, you will see that not all but the majority of single parent families from this cause have huge problems that can only be tackled with the protection and support of the state. That is why I call on you, especially on the issue of permanent or indefinite recruitment to the public and to the legal persons of the public, to consider this immediately, in order to remove this injustice for these people, for these families, for these children, in essence, which also concern the concept of protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-07-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-07-S1-commons.u28	Mr Kegeroglu, I really did not add anything to my analysis previously to you, because you have obviously studied the matter. However, I found it an opportunity to hear some provisions of the legislation, such as the ones I have mentioned, but also two other points which I would like to stress: the Ministry has made an increase in child disease leave for single parent families, which was not there. This has recently been done, as has the fact that an increased childbirth leave is provided for or an additional reduced working hours by one semester for childbirth.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-07-S1-commons.u29	They're busy, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-07-S1-commons.u30	Sure. This was in the category of workers as special care. You're right all over the place, so I told you that we see it for our part as you do. We'll deal with it with the same sensitivity. It is also necessary to do so. We are prepared to discuss the AACC these days - I do not mean in the extreme future, but in time - so that, with its agreement, we can go ahead with a particular treatment - I appreciate, without having finished this debate - possibly in the direction of increased mobilisation. I think it will be faster and easier. In any case, however, you will soon be informed of the outcome of the debate we have had here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-07-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Minister. The first under number 571/5-12-2017, the first question of the first cycle of the Athens MP, Mr. Gerasios Giakoumatos, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Procedure to deal with the recent natural disasters", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister responsible. The fifth, under No. 536/4-12-2017, topical question from the Member of the Attica of the River Mr. Georgios Mavrotas, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: 'An anti-military protection project in the Attica region', will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister responsible. The second question under number 521/4-12-2017 of the first cycle of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister for the Interior, on the subject: "The need to take measures to deal with the action of the "Rubicon" organisation, will not be debated as a result of an impediment by the relevant Minister. The first under number 572/5-12-2017, a topical question from the New Democracy MP, Mr. Fotinis Arabatzis, to the Minister of Home Affairs, on the subject: "Reform of Police Services in Serres Law", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister responsible. The fourth under No. 535/4-12-2017 topical question for the second question of the Athens Parliamentary, Mr. Gregorios Psarianos, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: 'An alarming escalation of the "Rubic" group' action, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister responsible. The eighth Question No 567/5-12-2017, topical question by the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The unacceptable and inappropriate attacks by naval soldiers to Hanioti civilians on the evening of November 17, 2017, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister responsible. Elena Zaroulia (Minister of Interior) 11th Question 465/27-11-2017 (Minister of Interior) 2nd Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zaroulias to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "How far will immunity reach and coverage of the criminal activity of left-wing gangs at universities?" will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister responsible? The fourth question under number 537/4-12-2017 is the first-round question of the Z Vice-President of the Parliament and MP for the Athens I of Potamio Mr. Spyridonos Lykoudis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Social and psychological support for those affected by the natural disasters" will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister responsible. The second question under number 539/4-12-2017, the second question by MP II Athens of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "The position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the allegedly transnational agreement with Saudi Arabia", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister responsible. The tenth under number 487/1-12-2017 topical question by the Independent MEP Mr. Dimitrios Koukoutsi to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Kalamis olives are imported and "Based" as Kalamata PDO olives", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister responsible. For all the topical questions raised, there is also an information document to the Bureau by the General Secretariat of the Government. The Member, Mr. Harris Theocharis, is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad on 7 December and 8 December 2017. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-07-S1-commons.u32	The House therefore approved the requested permission. The Member, George Stylos, shall request permission from a short-day absence abroad from 9 December to 14 December 2017. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-07-S1-commons.u33	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Thursday 19 October 2017, Friday 20 October 2017, Monday 23 October 2017 and Wednesday 25 October 2017 have been distributed and the House is asking to ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-07-S1-commons.u34	The minutes of Thursday 19 October 2017, Friday 20 October 2017, Monday 23 October 2017 and Wednesday 25 October 2017 were hereby validated. At this point, ladies and gentlemen, we will have a short break and come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-07-S1-commons.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. Will the sixth is now debated under number 574/5-12-2017, a topical question by the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: 'When will the OSH train be transferred from the former airport to the Greek airport, so that the investment of the seventy-five thousand new jobs and the EUR 8.2 billion?' The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport will answer Mr Christos Spirtzis. Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-07-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as you know, your Government fourteen months ago brought and ratified the contract between the Greek State and the company "ELELENIKI SA" where, in order to implement all this great investment we have all voted on and we all want to do so, some initiatives need to be implemented by the Ministries. In your ministry, it's to move the C.O.C.'s train station. If I'm not mistaken, it was after the contract, in ten months, to surrender to the investor. Nowadays, about fifteen months have passed since the Greek public contract and the train station has not been transferred. As you can see, one of the issues they raise is that if they delay transfer, the investment will be delayed. Since we have taken the initiative of all the ministries, because I believe that this is our role to help move forward with such investments - I would like to ask you - and with Mr Flavouraris' statement that at the end of the year the bulldozers would enter - in what process on behalf of your ministry is the transfer of the train. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-07-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr. Constantinople. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-07-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Let us make it clear that no delay on the part of the Greek Government exists for the Greek Government, at least for the relocation of the OSH train station and for all the rest. As you know, Mr Fellow, the investor submitted the integrated development plan referred to in Article 2(4)b of Law 4062/2012 in the summer of 2017, with a long delay of seven months. If any public service or ministry were seven and eight months late, you understand what would happen from the criticism of the opposition and also from the media friendly. Without the integrated development plan, as you know, there could be no design, no study and no licensing. So on the basis of those that were agreed after the change of the contract - that is, after what was agreed, not what we received as an agreement - the concession of the Greek will be given by June 2018. Page 39. It is the agreement we had to make and we did in the previous negotiations. A relevant agreement has been signed by the Ministry with "ELLINIKI SA" for the delivery of the land three months before the transfer of the shares. I'll give you the deal we've made. This has been since September 2016. So in time all this has been discussed and agreed, and it is clear that the OSH - I can also show you drawings - has moved forward to how all the activities of this train station will be transferred to other train stations that operate, so that there is no delay of any kind. [[At this point, Minister Christos Spirtzis presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Stenography and Practice Directorate.]] We must therefore wish - as you wish, I imagine - that there will be no delays in terms of an investor, so that the installation can proceed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-07-S1-commons.u39	Mr. Constantinople has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-07-S1-commons.u40	Minister, first of all, on the issues of investor delays, since they exist, we would also like to be informed, because we are also interested in knowing whether both parties are implementing their obligations. Today, however, you raise a new issue and I think it is to your credit. You're honest. You say that the Greek will be delivered in June 2018. This is a new given that has so far not existed and I respect it. The government says so, you represent the government and say that the Greek will surrender in June 2018. This contrasts with what Mr Flamouraris says, of course, that the bulldozers would enter, but that is a matter of government. Secondly, Minister, I want to tell you this. I would also like to see what you have tabled at some point. However, under Law 4422/2016, the contract that you signed - quite rightly you say - in paragraph 2.2 says that the sale of the shares sold under this Convention is conditional on filling the following posts - the defective hereditary hereditary posts - and we go where it says this, that, without prejudice to Article 8.1 - the case at Law 4062/2012, which tells who are involved when a project is delivered - apart from the area described in Article 7(1)(c) of Law 4062/2012, which, as it writes, within 10 months - it is your contract - from the date of transfer. The transfer date is when the masterplan is brought in? I say this because we understood what Mr Tsakalotos said, namely that the transfer date is when the contract came and was ratified by the Greek Parliament. So I understand what you're saying, but I disagree, because there's a contradiction between what you and Mr. Flambury say, who's in charge of the project. But it is honest and sincere on your part that you say there is a new element, that is, that the investment will now be delivered to the investor in mid-2018. Therefore, Minister, I understand that we can no longer talk about the benefits that the Greek people and everyone would like, and wish this - because the investment will not even start in 2018. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-07-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr. Constantinople. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-07-S1-commons.u42	It's not, dear colleague, just like that. And that is not the case, because if the investor had made progress in what he had to do during the seven months of delay, they could actually start work on Greek by the end of the year, because there would have been a licence. Also, in a project like this, it is of little importance, as soon as the shares are transferred, that all activities have been transferred. So it could start from somewhere else some other work - it's huge land, as you know - and then it could leave the train station. However, the contract you will see is expected to be made by the "ELLINIKI S.A.". - they were agreed both with the institutions and with the investor - three days before the transfer of the shares. So the transfer is not expected to take place in another year. What we've signed. But, Mr President, I would like to say a few things, so that we all have a picture, because I see that my colleague has a strong anxiety about when the Greek train station will leave - what is the case with the Greek train station, what we found. It is one of the little ones we found and we were unable to see it in the negotiation, because they foretold other things, as you know, to increase public infrastructure, to increase green, to reduce the rate, all the things that have been announced in the negotiation. What's planned for the train station? My dear colleague, the Greek train station is the largest of all the train stations the OSH has. It has an area of about eighty thousand square meters and hosts three hundred seventy buses. [[At this point, the warning bell closes the speaking time of the Minister]] Mr President, if you are kind, give me a little time to give two figures. They are, together with Agios Dimitrios, the only trains serving the wider area of the southern and eastern suburbs and in January 2016 requested "ELLINIKI SA" from the OSH to remove the train station, so the OSH prepared a detailed study of the collection and evaluation of the information available. What did she take into account? It took into account the following data from a study in previous years from a public transport study office. In particular, it is the same office that had done on the relentless Konstantinos Mitsotakis the study on the privatisation of urban transport. It's quite random. So there was a study that was quite costly. What was that study saying? What are the consequences of transferring these train procedures elsewhere in the Trinity, say? An increase in daily dead vehicle-kilometres from 18,775 to 21,673, corresponding to 2,797 vehicle-kilometres of diesel-powered buses per day. Impact on the working hours of the traffic staff due to an increase in these kilometres, which will take place unnecessarily. Impact on the operating costs of the OSH. We see an annual cost of around EUR 2.5 million. Effects on fuel consumption and of course on the environment. This adds to the cost of the investment, i.e. the cost of the investment to build the new train station or to expand the existing ones, which is about EUR 35 million. We inherited these from those who handled the Greek issue before. I believe that the concern of all of us is not only to start and become the Greek with the new conditions that have entered, but also what we do with urban transport, so that we have urban transport. And this cost will be borne by urban transport, because some people did not make a good plan. That is why we have not already relocated the Greek train station. We are looking to find some solutions to make a new train station in the wider area and not to incur all this cost for urban transport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-07-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr. Minister. That concludes the debate on topical and urgent questions. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-07-S1-commons.u44	With the consent of the House at 10.52' the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday 8 December 2017, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
