ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 15-3-2017 authorisation, its minutes were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau, of Wednesday 15 March 2017 with regard to the vote on the whole draft law "Reforming the Administrative Organisation of mental health services, Centres for the Experimentation of Rare and Complex Diseases, modification of pension arrangements of the L. 32016 R 0487: Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 4387/2016 and other provisions’.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The second question will be discussed under No 578/10-3-2017 in the first cycle of the Parliamentary of Attica, Mr. Mavroudi Voridis, to the Minister of the Interior, on the planned changes to the legal framework for the operation of the Local Government. The Minister of Interior will answer Mr. Skourletis. Please, Mr. Voridis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. It is a happy occasion, because I see that the government is represented by two ministers today, who have an identical view of the majority required to vote on the measures. Perhaps this is an opportunity to clarify it. But, as you know, the Committee on Article 5 of Law No.4368 recently issued a multi-purpose text with its views on the subject of the changes and interventions to be made in the regulatory framework of the so-called 'Kalikaratis', in essence the law which is the architecture for the functioning of the Local Administration. Within these proposals, in the section on the governance of the Local Government, there are opinions which have been heard by the Government and which constitute a formulated position, such as changing the way the municipal council is elected in the direction of mere proportionality. However, I have at least not heard the government adopt them, such as the creation of neighbourhood councils with expanded responsibilities, the introduction of local referendums, and the reduction in the term of office of municipal councils. In the public dialogue, there are further discussions and positions which speak of the removal of responsibilities from the mayor as a single representative of the board of directors and transferring these responsibilities to the municipal council or elsewhere, as well as the choice of the Secretary-General of the municipality, by a procedure in which the Central Government will decisively intervene. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would therefore like to ask the following question: firstly, if you share these views. What are the government's positions on these matters? Do you adopt them or do you have others? Secondly, if there is a dialogue with the CEDEFOP, because, as you have certainly seen, there are strong communications on the issue of the lack of dialogue with the Central Association of Municipalities of Greece on these issues. And when do you think to present your own position, if you ever think about presenting such a position?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u4	Thank you. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. I sincerely am pleased about today's topical question, because it is also going to be added to a dialogue that has already begun and will continue. This dialogue, as you quite rightly said, concerns the changes in the current institutional framework of self-government. At the initiative of the Ministry of Interior, a multi-member committee was set up since the middle of last year, involving officials from the Ministry of Interior, representatives from the EIA, the CEDEFOP, from time to time who have dealt with the issues of self-government. The Commission has come up with a specific multi-page finding of more than four hundred pages. I have said to all tons - and I would like to repeat this and to make it clear - that this conclusion is not the final position of the government, which it will bring to Parliament in order to vote on. It is, however, an important material on which we must work and take advantage of its aspects. In this sense, dialogue has been completed in the first phase, but it is becoming the most essential stage in the second phase. So we expect all of us to have detailed proposals now, which, if you like, are fed up with the Commission's findings on the very big subject, which is included in this, because, as you know, the issues of institutional change are not suitable for fast track approaches. We want to obtain as much consensus as possible. We want to record experiences from what we have in relation to the implementation of the 'CALCARATE' from 2010 onwards. The experiences are valuable. The experiences of the small island municipality are different from those of the 2nd Athens Municipality, the Municipality of Attica or a rural municipality. I think that all this should in a systematic way be discussed and recorded. It is completely incomprehensible that the President of the CEDEFOP, who participated in 95% of this procedure, is incomprehensible at only five, for reasons that you might know better - since these statements he made with you in relation to the dialogue - he left. We are fabulously in favour of dialogue and we will discuss these things with both the CEDEFOP and with HSPE and directly with each municipality separately. We're already doing it. I've personally seen over fifty-sixty mayors, apart from those my advisors have already seen. So we cannot shrink the dialogue, consultation, measures and wishes of Mr Patulis or yours. In fact, I have last heard you speak together about an attempt by the Government to mobilize the Government in the name of changing the electoral law. Since then, the genuine expression of the popular will in the composition of the municipal councils is an attempt to perish and is not an attempt to alter the people's vote when 18%, 20%, 25% of the first Sunday, gets a vicious final majority on the second Sunday of 3/5? What's that? Is that protection of representative democracy? Is it an anthem in the participation of the citizens? What kind of perception is this deformative electoral law you defend? I'd like to say one more thing. Tell me, honestly, that you as a New Democracy with which of the major reforms in government have linked your name? With the hereditary county? You're across the street. With the "CONTRIA"? You're across the street. With the "CALL"? You're across the street. You are the personalization of maintenance in relation to self-government. You don't want anything to change. You've always been the backstage of any change, whether wrong or not. In any case, I suggest that you and these people you influence, with all the wealth of your arguments and yours. It'll do good, it won't.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u6	Thank you. Here, Mr Voridis, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u7	Mr President, thank you. I have not become much wiser than the Minister's answer, because the government's position on the simple analogue issue has been placed at the conferences. I'm going to say a couple of words about that, since Mr. Skourletis put it. However, because I have heard criticism of the President of the CEDEFOP, let me point out the following: Dialogue is taking place with the institutions. Of course, there is a right for everyone to discuss whatever they want, whoever they want. He can go and find whoever mayor thinks he needs to find a large municipality, a small municipality, a middle municipality, a rural municipality or a urban or semi-urban city and have a conversation. However, when we call institutionalised dialogue with Government, that is dialogue with its institutions and that is the CEDEFOP. So bypass does not solve the issue of dialogue. You may not like Mr. Patolis. What can we do now? Your institutional interlocutor is Mr. Patolis. He's the one you need to discuss. Secondly, I'm saying I didn't become wiser, why? Because - listen - you didn't even take a position. You say start a dialogue and you don't even take a position if the beginning of the dialogue is the specific text that has been tabled. Because that is essential to know. This is a text which has rightly been submitted to the Government. It was also made public. Yes, sir. But he was submitted to the government. Question: Is it the text on which we are debating? That is what I wanted to hear, and that is the subject of the question, because this text says a lot and a lot, indeed. In terms of governance, however, it has a specific strategy: weakening the role of the mayor, simply proportional. I will say in a minute two words about the simple analogy, although I think the debate on the simple analogy is ultimately a well-known debate. We have done it many times in Parliament and in the context of the electoral system. Two things must ensure an electoral system: the maximum possible representation of the citizens' vote and, on the other hand, the possibility of effective governance. In the 'effective governance' part it is known that the simple analogue, the one you adopt, does not lead to concrete results and possibilities. Take note of the combination of what he hears, that is, the removal of responsibilities from the mayor, the transfer of responsibilities to the municipal council, simply proportional to the municipal council, a Secretary-General who is in fact selected or largely identified by the central government, by the Minister of the Interior. I then tell you that this is what you defended. It has been withdrawn, it does not come back to this particular proposal, but it has been heard in the public debate. You don't hear it from me for the first time, but I wish you could tell me that it's not like that and finish it, just leave one. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Popular neighborhood councils with decisive authority: these are actually a front of attack literally against the institution of local government, against the institution of mayors. I am saying that it is a wave of government attack to manipulate and control local government. So what did I ask you? That was indeed your chance. To say 'no, it is not like that, no I do not adopt these positions'. I ask again: Is the text on which you are discussing the debate is the text of this committee? Is there going to be another text on which we are going to discuss, after listening to the government's positions? Each dialogue takes precedence over the time you choose, but on a basis. You have to say, 'Our thoughts are those. These are the thoughts in the direction of the committee.' Does the government share them? Is that the starting text? Because this will determine the scope and type of dialogue on these issues. If you accept this text, we say that this text plus the additional places you have at times raised a matter. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying this. We are not too concerned about this legislative initiative. I've said it before. We're not worried, why? Because that is 2019. In 2019, even if you legislate the simple analogue, for which we have a clear position and a statement that you are defending it, there will have been another government, our own and it will have abolished this particular arrangement. However, we are concerned about your intentions and want to know them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u8	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u9	Honestly, Mr Voridis, you did not make me wiser in relation to your views and positions. You didn't try at all, at least bother to comment on some things. You remain unmoved in a logic characterized by deep conservation in the issues of Government. I want to tell you this. I do not really understand what you say about the dialogue, and what do you recommend to your friend, the president of the CEDEFOP? Are you suggesting he escape like he did? Do you agree? Because in this dialogue which was institutionalised, I repeat, the CEDEFOP participated in 95% of the meetings. We have said to all tons: first phase of dialogue, second phase of dialogue, on the basis of this material and not only - this is not the final proposal of the government - and through the second phase of dialogue and by aspiring, as I have repeatedly said in my public positions, on the middle of the year to have a final text - where once again the CEDEFOP, you, the EIA and anyone else wants - will proceed to some basic reforms that will actually open the way to a new era, to get into a new reform period. Government can play a major role in the matter of development. However, first we need to discuss competences, duplication of powers, relationships with central authority, relations with decentralised administration, resources, and development tools. The problems today are but not what you said or said or did not say at all in your brief speech. There's a hypotension problem. There are problems from the fact that there are no proper technical services, engineers in a number of municipalities to be able to use financial tools, resources from the NRP, to mature studies, to submit proposals. Do you know why we've come this far? Because they are the results of your own policy that have demolished the Government. The more than 65% reduction in resources is on your day. So today, within all the other things you inherited us, you inherited us as well these very big problems and we try with low tones, with wider understanding to deal with them. Why does the notion of broader consensus and understanding bother you in government? Well, for the rest you have your lines, you have your views! You're fantastic on the axis of the IMF and Mr. Shoeble. You are characterized by reincarnation, vengeance. Your President, your Vice-President, told them yesterday. You've all done it. All right! We understood that. We know what the workers in government expect if you get back to work. You won't come back. We know that. But, as far as Government is concerned, whether or not we should treat waste in one way or another, whether or not we should regenerate a square, whether or not we should extend a town plan, on which are the differences so great? There can't be wider consensus there? Why in the various committees carrying out executive work within the Government most of the decisions, 90% to 95%, are almost unanimous and when we reach the level of municipal councils there we are now discovering the big dividends? Why, then, does the simple analogue not contribute to a logic of broader compositions? Locality of problems facilitates such an approach. Unless you want to have active in a guiding center, unless you want the mayors to treat them as the great arm of a central "blue power" and reproduce this political system that has led to the depreciation of Government in previous years. If you have such a perception of yours, please! That's where we'll be across the street. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, too. The Secretary-General of the Government, Mr Kalogerou, informs Parliament that the following questions will not be discussed: The second, with number 583/13-2017, is a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Vassiliou Kegeroglou to the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, on violations of legislation on recruitment for the Social Poverty Structures, will not be discussed due to lack of responsibility. The fifth, under No. 58513-3-2017, top-level question for the first cycle of the Athens MP of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the problems of contract workers in cleaning at the National Technical University of Athens, will not be discussed due to the absence of the relevant Minister, Mr. Ahtsoglou. Also, they will not be discussed as a result of an impediment to the relevant ministers and the following questions will be redefined for discussion: The fourth under number 584/13-2017 a top-level question by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of Finance about the "unreasonable divestment of the profitable Egnatia Road SA", will not be discussed due to a workload of Mr. Tsakalotos. The sixth question under number 576/7-3-2017, first question by MP II Thessaloniki of the Independent Greeks Mr.George Lazarides to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning support for employment and production of Greek industries, will not be discussed due to a workload of Mr. Stathakis. The first, with number 579/10-3-2017, topical question for the second cycle of the Member of Parliament, Eotolokarnania, of the New Democracy, Mr. Konstantinos Karagounis, to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the decongestion of prisons and the increase in crime, will not be discussed because Mr. Kontonis will be out of Athens. The third, with number 582/13-2017, a topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of the Interior, concerning the existence of only four (4) speed radars on the national network of the country, will not be discussed due to a workload of Mr. Toska.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u11	Mr President, let me take the floor for half a minute to tell you a word about the question I have tabled and it is not debated because it was considered to be non-responsibility of the Minister. As you said, Mr President, I have tabled a question to the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction concerning violations of municipal recruitment legislation. More generally, the recruitment system and the supervision of the IASA are related to the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction and to any other Ministry. In this sense, I consider my question to be appropriately tabled to Mrs Gerovas, and this is demonstrated by another fact. About a month ago, I had asked a question about the same subject and he had answered me in writing in a proper manner. I shall submit to the Minutes the question I have tabled and the answer that she has given me - and rightly so - in order for them to be tabled. So I insist that the Minister is responsible.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u12	So we are now moving now on to the first 3011/31-1-2017 question - the circle of petitions and questions - from the Member of the Lakonia of the New Democracy, Mr Athanasios Davakis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the problems arising from the suspension of the Forests, and the second question - also to the circle of petitions and questions - from the Member of the Democratic Alliance PASOK - DIMARK - Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the problems arising from the suspension of the Forest Papers, which, in accordance with Rule 131 of the Rules of Procedure, are on the same subject, will be discussed together, without altering the time of both the Members and the Minister. Here, Mr Davaki, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. It is perhaps one of the few times that the parliamentary procedure comes as a "Prometheus" to resolve a number of issues, when the government sees that it has created, of course, by its legislative initiative, in application of the letter of the Constitution. I tabled a simple written question a few days after the start of the suspension of the forest maps, namely 31 January of this year. I would say that, with various answers from the Minister's office, all these elements which make up the known refusal, which you have also read a moment ago, Mr President, that there are not many questions to be answered during the debate on the topical and urgent questions. In that question we raised the huge mistakes resulting from the suspension of forest maps, with what this means to the owners, the suffocating sixty-day periods, the 'asphygous' paradoxes that each owner was called upon to pay, from EUR 45 to about EUR 3,500, and the serious consequences for the country's rural world, because many of the forested fields received subsidies, were in the OSE, OPEKEPE, etc., were eligible areas. And I say that this question comes as a 'Prometheus', because the government has indeed amended its legislative initiative - let me say this - and it came a few 24 hours ago to create another situation, I believe, which is a reassuring situation towards the world, but not a complete one, I would say incomplete, Minister. Because, therefore, as a "Prometheus" this question has worked more, I know the Minister's answer, that it will be mentioned in his amendment and I expect his answer. I would also like him to look forward to my own remarks, because the main problem that goes on in our country, our country for many years is to apply the right incompletely, incompletely, confiscated, roughly, which I feel that you too have been aware of, and you have been witnessed and received. And I think that one of the most appropriate measures in this regard, which will contribute to the further development of the land register and growth, has been undermined by sloppyness, speed and all the results that you have had to change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, fifty-five students and students and four teachers, from the 10th high school of Heraklion Crete. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] You are attending the parliamentary control meeting, which is one of the main responsibilities of the House, where Members ask the ministers on various issues of their responsibilities, and the Ministers respond. That is why you do not see there being a plenary and many Members in the Chamber. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Let me also welcome the students from the 10th High School of Heraklion and wish them "good stay in Athens and return without problems". Let us say that today we are discussing a serious issue, which has arisen because the Government, in particular the Ministry of the Environment, did not proceed with the preparation required before the forest maps were posted. Of course, it preceded, by a law of this government, the amendment of previous laws, which provided for this preparation and which was deleted, and it is a necessary stage to facilitate things. And so we have led to the deadlock that the government then comes to an amendment on a holiday. We have noted from the outset that it is absolutely wrong to put up forest maps without linking town planning and all about town planning. It is absolutely wrong to post the forest maps without the correlation and to exclude the parcels included in the OPECE maps which are part of European subsidies. It is quite wrong that the increased paradox and, of course, the small deadline for objections has been made. So we asked the government to suspend this process and after making the necessary amendments to the institutional framework, to come and see together in the framework of the conciliation how it can be better resolved. Instead, it has brought an amendment which will, of course, be discussed today in the normal procedure. However, from its title - and I will say more in my speech - it seems that it is more an amendment that needs communication to deal with this than an amendment to a substance. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, too. Minister, if I'm not mistaken, you have a date with the Patmion Municipality today. I have to tell you that there too, they say that almost all of the island has been classified as a forest area. That means you should probably look at this in detail. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Although it is not provided for in the parliamentary procedure, you are obliging me to inform you that I have met three weeks ago with representatives of the Municipality of Patmos. I'm obviously aware of the issues. But I also thank you for your second briefing today, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will respond at the same time. I think in the second cycle we will find the opportunity to make a little better the debate on the issues you raise and on forest maps. Mr President, I think I should have twice a year. Thank you. I must start by saying that the ratification of forest maps is indeed an unprecedented process for the Greek state, for the public administration, for the inhabitants of the country and for the environment of our country. This is because the government has been called upon to implement something that, as you well know, has been legislated in our country since 1976 and no government has had the courage and political will to implement it. We must state this in introductory terms: it has not dared the political system of our country to implement laws and the 1975 Constitution, to protect the forest, to lay down rules, to capture legality and regularity, to organise development, to organise spatial planning, to guarantee the rights of citizens and farmers, to protect the environment, and thus also to fuel our country with a quality of life, but also with a new development. That is what we are discussing today. Our country's problem is not the forest maps. It's what forest maps reveal. For forest maps are coming to solve problems caused by the transformation in our country. The hit on the back "Don't worry, we won't make forest maps" meant to the Greek farmer that the problem of agricultural farming is not solved, that his land is not reflected, that his farming is not being modernised. The same would probably mean for the arbitrary tourist residence: "Don't worry." Eventually, however, we come today and see that this 'do not worry' has been very concerned about the country because it has led it from this route to a flaw, not to say bankruptcy. Of course, there may have been many phenomena of reconciliation of policy with citizens to delay forest maps. In the end, however, the state, the farmer, the citizen, is enslaved because it has no way out, because it is not proper, it is not legal. We do not know today, in Greece of 2017, where our forests are. We're still waiting for the OTAs to give us the limits of their settlements to protect the residence. That's what we're talking about today. Our choice was unmistakable. Greece is moving forward. He's not looking back. He sees what he has to do. It is a European obligation for many years now to have a register. You couldn't complete it. That's the reality. We have to do this together now. I thank you because this conversation can add improvements. Because the aim of the current government is to improve what is needed and to restore legitimacy and regularity. That is why we are going to proceed with further regulations which, ladies and gentlemen, I have already announced to the House a similar question for three weeks now. And I have also announced new improvements, not only those that are now in an amendment. So we must restore legitimacy. This radical incision must go ahead. The rule, Mr President - because you have put it yourself - is the conversation with all interested parties to find legal, standard solutions and to restore regularity. Clearly, I will not argue in favour of all the studies. I will argue in favour of the process we need. That is what I think is about, and that is what we are going on today. I must therefore tell you that the opposition fee has been reduced. And that's why there's a decision from 3-2-2017. Why has the end of objections been reduced? Because the 2014 ministerial decision to governments that I think you participated provided for the threshold of the end of the objection to be EUR 50, that is, the smallest objection to the smallest extent. We made the decision and amended it to 10 euros, 80% discount. Therefore, I do not think it is appropriate to discuss the fact that we are introducing fees when we reduce the decisions of the ministers of the previous government by 80% for the lowest area and by 60% - 70% for the medium-sized ones. Obviously, we do not so much reduce the objection to the areas of more than three hundred acres of forests. That's where we reduced the objection of 7%. So as far as citizens' access to the objection is concerned, yes, we made a big decision and reduced it very much in relation to the previous decisions. However, since you also referred to the time of suspension, I would like to say the following: the 2010 law - I think you were in Parliament and you voted for it - it had forty-five days. We came by law in 2016 and made them sixty and gave the twenty days for residents abroad. We increased it. We also tabled an amendment yesterday - because we see all that is being done in the Greek countryside, and we are interested in the work being organised, the process being organised and the right thing to do - and we have proposed another forty-five. From the forty-five days, then, of the 2010 Act, we will go to the hundred-five, on our own legislative initiative. And I would like to thank you publicly if the whole House were to vote for it, because it is right. The previous one was not right, ladies and gentlemen, what we are coming to fix, the forty-five days of 2010. I would therefore like to make a statement here as to what all I have said, which needs to be done, which is improved by our own government because it has had serious problems and has not been implemented by the previous ones. To say one more thing to complete my first placement. Indeed, this law provided for the protection of the dwellings and organised anthropogenic activities, that is, entrepreneurship and other functions mentioned in your letters, in your questions. However, the Act of 2016 provides that municipalities are required to introduce into the forestry map system and thus exclude from the suspension, housing areas, urban planning limits and other activities, and at the same time residential density. Thus, housing and organised anthropogenic activity are protected. But they haven't. The municipalities have not implemented the law, although they have received four letters from the Land register and two letters from me to the Central Association of Municipalities, and I have also requested a meeting of the Central Association of Municipalities to implement this obligation, which was the first in the law, to exclude settlement plans and settlements, so that the area of residence is resolved by town and spatial planning rather than by forest legislation. We have therefore strengthened the process of time, the reduction of fees, we have given the floor to self-government, representing the citizen at the nearest point to resolve the issues of housing and to protect them so that we can come with regulations, which I shall say in the second part of my reply, so that we can also support rural farming so that we do not question agricultural production and the subsidies system. That is why there is already our ministerial decision to lift afforestation on cultivated land, which I know you have enough in the Peloponnese, so that the rural area, before the fire, is not subject to reforestation, as the decision of the Forestry provided for in the decision of the Forestry and is exempted by our own Ministerial decision and an amendment that we have brought, so that the reforestationers can be declared legality and the procedures of subsidies will not be called into question there too. But you will allow me to continue in the second part after listening to your proposals, so that I do not exceed the time and the ethics of the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, too. Mr. Davakis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u19	Mr President, the provision of the 1975 Constitution was in a direction which we did not follow for many decades. What the Minister said about a back hit, etc. He shouldn't say it, because the natural monitors of the hit on the back are you. Not to mention the past, which you have all slaughtered and stabbed at the level of the election proclamation and the promises. It's something much more serious that you've made a mistake about. And your mistake, Minister, proves. We do not freeze the time and say: 'the political system forty years ago, etc.'. We say about the substance, and now what has happened. And the reality is that you raised the maps without having anticipated the problems that will arise. This shows a desecrated energy, an action that I think is not solved by an increase in the deadline. Because you could have a long period of one year, with a milestone within this time-limit, catalytic and solvent milestones, so that people can build a conscience of partnership in this very right direction, called the forest map for the country, without the cries, the political exploitation of various kinds, which you may also know about confiscations, etc. You have brought the amendment, which demonstrates once again the unrelenting or clipboard of your choice. This amendment does indeed - and we are positive - solves the issue of a suffocating deadline. The final of the committee's decision, that the committee's decision is final and is inappropriate and that the amendment does not resolve. Is the cost of an infringement covered by the amendment? You said you reduced it. We're waiting to see it. As far as the eligible areas are concerned, farmers who have recourse to prove their ownership of farms within a forest map are covered by the amendment, and that is one of the positive aspects of the OPEKEPE. The suspension of the suspension of the suspension of the forestry maps. Will the government postpone the posting of the maps until the procedure that we proposed is completed? He doesn't intend. On the contrary, the amendment also provides regulations that you say will facilitate. I do not think it will be in that direction. Is the expert assistance covered by the amendment? Mechanical, town office, etc.Huh? Not covered. Therefore, the citizen will again be forced to resort to engineers, artists, etc. The composition of the committees. There has been a comprehensive description of the composition of the committee and of the way in which the objections are dealt with, and I think it is not covered by the amendment. You mentioned the co-operation of the municipalities, that only 40% - you said it on TV in the morning - has been involved in the settlements. I won't just tell you about the municipalities. I'll tell you about the forest services. What is the staffing of forest services? Will you answer me 'in the two years that we are ruling will we resolve it'? No, but you have the problem right now. Forty years, elected by the Greek people, we have done what we have done and put the forest issue in the Constitution. You who have been in the political margin for forty years, in the good sense of 'political margin', what are you doing now that you have the knife? To tell you features, the partnership of society is this: Seventy citizens have at the moment objected to the Laconia Prefecture, of which seventy are sixty-five are in the cases of imperfect objections. You understand fear with the paradox. All this goes towards what I told you about the maps. And this is a matter with the maps, whether our forest services with the chosen and experienced executives - the few but the good - have contributed towards this process. As far as I know, a private initiative took this case and gave some concrete evidence. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like you to tell me what is going to happen in this case. These are issues you need to see again. Where we are now, I don't think anything can be postponed. You need to put landmarks in a long time, make the process more friendly.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u20	Mr. Davakis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u21	I shall conclude, Mr President. It's just a little complicated, that's why we need time. In this respect, the case of forest maps must become a more appreciable, self-friendly process for citizens. I feel that the reafforestations you now bring shows that you hadn't predicted the matter. You can't raise forest maps without refreshing. Now you're bringing it into line. And all that we have discussed, as well as the issue of foreigners, who still have no idea what is going on. They need proxy, they need on-site transitions of these people, all of this. I feel like you've been busy. At the moment we are here not to opposition, but to correct you in the right direction, as shown by the amendment you have put forward. It's incomplete, it's--I'd say-- semimeter, fix it and do it better. You have the time and the ability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u22	Thank you. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, in contrast to the answers and indeed a necessary self-criticism for the actions you have not done and for the actions you have taken and brought the deadlock, you have entered a 'grass' of propaganda, as you like, and it is a fact that you are doing it. However, this is a matter for the citizens. You appeared as the prosecutor of Postpopulation and OTA and "clean" the subject. Of course, you are at risk of being indirectly characterised as a supporter of the junta, the civil war and all the prestige before the post-Macedonia, Minister. The Civil War is directly related to the forest maps, because during the civil war period and due to the civilization, land was abandoned until then and your forest maps that you posted, cultivable land appear as forests. So we told you. Why didn't you prepare for this and instead attacked the OTAs and the Transmigration? So listen, now. You came under your law, Law No.4389, about May or June, and you amended Law.4164/2013 and Law.4280/2014. So avoid making the preparation that I mentioned, that is to say, to relate it to the built-up areas, to work with the country's town offices for this purpose. You did not relate to the growing areas, so the maps of the OPECE and you posted them, and of course not sixty days, but not even a hundred sixty. If you had made that connection, of course, there would have been no problems and there were enough forty-five days. The problems arose from your own arrangement. Besides, you admit it. Although you are writing in the context of the 'grass' propaganda on the amendment that you tabled 'Amendment of the Law 2010', listen to what you are amending, so people will know. Remove paragraph C of Article 153 of Law No.4389/2016, Law of Government of SYRIZA - ANEL. It states that paragraph (b) of Article 153 of Law No.4389/2016 is repealed. Paragraph (e) of Article 153 of L.4389 is repealed. Paragraph (f) of Article 153 is repealed. On the next page, page 7, state that Article 153 (g) of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government law is repealed and paragraphs (h) and (h) of that article are also repealed. These refer to the repealed provisions. So the government came with an amendment to correct, abolish - and it did well, after we had reached a dead end - its own provisions, which caused the deadlock and falsely tells us in the title that it amends the 2010 law. It amends the article of the 2010 Act, which was, however, amended by Article 153 of Law No.4389, which conceals. In the repealed provisions, of course, the services could not hide it. Another political text of the report which makes 'grey' propaganda and another the repealed provisions which the agency says are being abolished. So that's it. Go out and say 'we were wrong'. Of course, it is worth what you have asked for. Let us see together within the framework of a consultation, with the provisions which will be voted on by Parliament in the context of the debate and the legislative work based on the tabling of your amendment, how we will overcome the problem, but not come and throw everything away in the past and say that yours, all of what you have done in May and June, was saints. Mr President, because of the meeting of the Conference of Presidents, I was told again to go because we were both representatives, and I have to come here - I will apologise and I will see from the Minutes the reply of the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u24	Good. Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u25	It's the Conference, Minister. The President should have taken care of it and did not take care of it so that it did not make it easier for him to give up, but everything you say will be recorded in the Minutes. Besides, I don't have a right to retaliatory. Say what you want in your dentistry. Take out another "grey" propaganda. Here we are to read it and at noon where the debate on the bill will be, you will get the answers. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I have to say that I will not fall to any level of simplicity of politics, nor the rapture of the history and the struggles of the Greek people. I think that this populism reflects the course of bilateralism and why our country has serious problems in the economy, in the administration, in agricultural production. I am not talking about, Mr Davaki, to you. I think we can discuss a number of issues that can be added to the policy and functioning of the House for the benefit of the citizens. I think that nothing really has to do with everything that has been said at the end of the previous question. After all, we are now taking the initiatives to resolve serious issues and legislative gaps because, unfortunately, my colleague read parts of the explanatory statement. In fact, the Act of 2016 amended the 2010 Act. And he's actually being changed. After all, I have tabled to the committee ministerial decisions and laws with the signature of Mr Skreka, Mr Manatis, who were making matters seriously which we are now resolving. But we have said this in committee and we will see you in plenary when the amendment comes. It does not concern the question, and we must contribute to the parliamentary scrutiny you have caused, and that is what I intend to do. The first question you raised in your speech, Mr Davaki, was whether the forestry services have the initiative. Yes, the Act of 2016 now sets forest services first. It wasn't the same as the previous law, Mr. Davaki. That is how we saved as a country serious costs in the preparation of scholars. In fact, as many forest services as were able to work out for themselves, without scholars, the forest maps, and they have been started and uploaded first. He's in the first batch of posts, and we need to thank them. Of course, their duty has been accomplished. Also, forest services have the responsibility of considering the maps the scholars create, so in any case they have the stamp and the certification and endorsement of this posted material. But there are also these maps. We have said that we cannot know every map what it contains. We must enable the citizen to resolve this. So there is one question here: what costs will the citizen solve it and what technical assistance will it be? Is this solved? The second element of my position is that, although forest services have the first reason, unfortunately, Mr Davakis, with the policy that Mr Mitsotakis has implemented in the Ministry of Administrative Reform, public services are dedicated. There is a very serious problem of staffing the public sector and not to tell you that there were redundancies and job limitations in the public sector. We are now coming to restore this blow created by the last period of governance in the end 2013-2014. Then there were serious problems which have indeed been inherited and which are our responsibility and you are right now. Without forgetting what happened, we should give additional staff to the services to operate the support points for the citizens. Because that's where the point is, there's points of support in all the prefectures, so that we don't need lawyers, topographers. There is also an electronic tool for informing you on the website page that the citizen can view from satellite image to view the map, see his parcel and characterization, without a specialist and pay contracts, etc. In fact, I have to tell you that you don't need a contract to submit an objection. Suffice the E9 statement. So we do it as friendly as you said, not needing costs for the citizen, and it's electronic for some who are far away, not having to come. Expansion helps, because in Easter some will come to the districts. They will, perhaps, rediscover their property, relatives, to close the issue of objections. That is why we are giving the extension. Of course, in some decentralised administrations, we have covered additional staff within codes of the regions with an eight-month duration to also serve the opposition committees and forestry services where we need to go to the reafforestation reliefs for farm reafforestators who had both agricultural use and use and ownership concessions with L.4280 and L.4315, so that both landed and landed, which are in the process of subsidies, are legal and that normality is restored there too. We have anticipated that too. In addition, I have to tell you that there is already a ministerial decision on obvious errors, so that issues that either because of the photo-interpretation of the old map with the new one or because of a question of limits, such as a plant-fence between two parcels which have been shifted by three metres, or an olive grove on a large slope that is cloudy and looks like a forest, can be resolved. I must say to you that I also have personal experience, because I, too, have origin from Elias, and I know the olive grove and what problems exactly are there in photo-interpretation. These will be resolved without the responsibility of the citizens, they are manifest errors and without costs, and the services are now obliged by this ministerial decision, which will come out at the beginning of next week, to resolve this as well. It's, I think, in the same direction as what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u28	Minister, at some point we need to talk about the '45 aerial photographs.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u29	Of course, if you want to say that, too. You know that based on the constitutional forecast, we are going to the oldest available total display of our country's forest area, it is compulsory. In cases where, however, aerial photography is not opportune, either because of the inclination of trees or because of the cloud, an extension of forty-five days now allows the aerial photography to be used if necessary in the documentation so that no right is called into question. The aim, Mr Davaki, is not to create another problem, but to restore the regularity and legitimacy of the services and thus to have better functioning of the services, because that is what we are interested in, and if you want to resolve the problems of citizens and forest services to deal with forestry policy and not always with designations on a case-by-case basis and take me - come to various places to see the parcels. We shall also put the procedure you are proposing here. So, as far as the route is concerned, because you have asked for a specific route, both with the extension, but also with all these legislation in Parliament or with the ministerial decisions we are preparing, there is a route that says that the suspension is extended so that there is no problem and no pressure for all the tools at the disposal of society. The opposition procedure shall also be strengthened by serving the conventional sciences of forest science. The resurrecters now have a ministerial decision and a legislative act that will be adopted next week by us. At the same time, it improves the procedure for granting and granting ownership before 1975 for agricultural use on forest land, as the previous laws provided for, but without heavy bureaucratic procedures, only with OPECE the integration of the farmer and with more improvements in use, i.e. a drilling, a warehouse that was not allowed until now. We're going to suggest that, too. It is something we will discuss to have a full proposal. Of course, I have to tell you that in cases of resurrectors who have had an agricultural use or in cases of applications for evacuation, we have to agree to go along with a proposal that these departments will not be cancelled, that is to say, the question of agricultural operation until all the issues have been resolved. The request for objection enables us, on the basis of the law now in existence and the request for evacuation not to be ratified...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u30	With an M.A.D.?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u31	No, there is already in the law that the objection is excluded from the ratification of this section until the time allowed for the committee to be examined and at the same time there is the procedure for the concession of use, which we can incorporate on a parallel route, so that all this can be restored and resurrected, we have already said it is a third route. We have said resurrected, rural uses, extremism and the cases of objections and, of course, manifest errors, all that I think they have a route that actually equips public administration, helps the operation of the countryside, but it does not close the eye - and this must be closed - in trespasses, in commercial use of the forest and in reducing forest protection, which I think is also constitutional and politically acceptable. And it is good to tell society that in the same direction the political system now says there is a forest map, there is a tariff, there is a land register. And here are the real questions, because in committee we discussed a proposal for an amendment from the Opposition that asked me questions, but that is what we will say in plenary, it is not here. Here the proposal and procedure are parliamentary scrutiny. I think that these proposals can be integrated and are already in our programming. I do not think I have forgotten anything from the procedure you have proposed. I should like to say, of course, that together with the settlements and reafforestations and legacy are part of the specification of the forest maps and ensure that all the acts of the administration and even the outstanding acts of the forest offices, because there may be such an application which is still pending, are excluded from the procedure of objections and fees. Therefore, neither cost nor restoration from the point of view of the management of possible deficiencies and delays. Thank you very much. It is a procedure that we shall also discuss in Parliament. A new debate will also be needed in plenary and parliamentary control will also be helpful in this direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u32	Thank you. I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, Internal, National Defence, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Finance, Administrative Reconstruction, Culture and Sport, Environment and Energy, Infrastructure and Transport, Shipping and Island Policy and Food have today tabled a draft law: ‘Reduction measures for the costs of installing high-speed electronic communications networks - Harmonising legislation in Directive 2014/61/EU and other provisions’. The above draft law has been classified by the Government as urgent. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. We move on to the first with number 581/13-2017 in the first cycle of the Member of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Stavros Arachovitis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the revision of the current Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) and the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) after 2020. Mr. Arachovite, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning to all colleagues, Mr Minister. The CAP review at this stage is divided into two arms. Firstly, on the one hand, we have an opportunity to discuss the review of the existing CAP by 2020. Secondly, we have the process of making proposals for the new CAP, which is after 2020 to 2025. In the first phase, in the first phase, we have a procedure, based on Article 14 of Regulation 1307/2013, where it gives two basic possibilities. The first is the flexibility between the first and second pillars to transfer funds to programmes or measures where we do not have sufficient absorption. And the second is a possibility of revising the national policy that took place in 2014, but which created a number of problems and inequalities between new entrants and old farmers who held historical rights. This possibility exists under Article 14 of the regulation and now we can resolve these injustices. As regards the second option, the committee initiated the procedure with its letter from 14-7-2016, where it enabled us to review the gradual convergence for up to 30% over the average of the so-called 'historic rights'. At the second stage of the new common agricultural policy, we had a letter from 2-2-2017, in which the committee started in reality and even set four sections on which the CAP will be discussed after 2020. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a moment, let me finish the question, Mr President. The European Commission's objective, as it says, is that by the end of 2017 a communication on the future CAP has been made on the new CAP. Because we now consider that the review of the current CAP enables us to resolve the injustices that were consolidated after the historical rights of 2004. They were consolidated with the national option in 2014, and we have to follow them so far on the one hand, on the other hand we have the possibility of lifting all these injustices to the detriment of young people and new entrants. And because we are at a happy time to be the ones who can table a different view and logic on the options after 2020, I ask you what action you are going to take or take in the context of the review of the existing CAP. Then, in dentistry, let me discuss what basic axes the country and the government have chosen to move for the new CAP after 2020.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u34	Mr Evangelos Apostolos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u35	Mr President, a little tolerance, because the question may indeed be of size, but indeed what my colleague has put forward is extremely topical and is particularly concerned about the rural world at the moment. The current CAP, as you know, ladies and gentlemen, closed in July 2014 with the then government accepting many negative elements. I'm not going into this process. But the worst of all was her attachment to historical elements. It is what we are talking about about rights and they have caused us great problems and, above all, the introduction of young farmers to rural activity. That was the biggest problem. It was therefore an obligation for us in the mid-term review to approach matters more generally. We should also bear in mind that any proposal we had wanted to put forward was within the framework established by the European Commission. The European Commission has tabled a specific proposal, known as Omnibus - for those involved in the rural area - and the main amendments we had before us were those concerning Regulation 1306/2013 on the financing, management and monitoring of the common agricultural policy and, of course, Regulation 1307/2013 on direct payments. Our country, like a majority of the Member States, disagreed with the first amendment, which concerned Regulation 1306/2013, because the abolition of rule 50-50 - those who know it, understand it at this time - created a problem for us, because this meant a significant burden on the Member States' government budgets. And you realize that in such a process we could not get in, because we would automatically have an increase in our deficit. We can't afford time for further analysis. In the second proposal we agreed with the amendment to Articles 50 and 51 in the direction of increasing hectares, for which 25% of the premium is granted to young farmers, to maximise the absorption of the measure. However, this proposal was not accepted by the majority of the Member States. So we couldn't move on. We supported the amendment of Article 52 on related aid in the years from 2017 and beyond, we were given the opportunity to review the options we had previously and at the same time to increase existing aid from EUR 141,6 million to EUR 186 million, that is to say, 9,94% of the national dossier. It is a significant increase and, above all, because we want to go towards strengthening activities related to the policy that we want to implement in the rural area, such as support for livestock farming, for example. We have made further comments on the definition of permanent pasture, and that is where we are in a consultation with other Member States. A front, particularly in the Mediterranean countries, which have the same problems with regard to pastures, has now been formed, and we see that at least the discussions on the Special Committee on Agriculture have been held in the Special Committee on Agriculture is an issue that will be accepted. On the other point, namely the calculation of the initial unit of aid - I am referring to the loss that young farmers had in relation to the rights of 2014 or even earlier - there is a problem. It's known. So there, despite the fact that there was a proposal in 2015, we brought it back again in 2016, so that the value of these rights is not lost. Our committee says that it cannot solve the problem because the provisions of the basic Regulation are affected. We have submitted before, because this part, the request and the last answer we have had, and indeed Commissioner Hogan's recent visit to Thessaloniki, is that a special committee will study the issue, of course always bearing the reservation that we cannot open matters specifically relating to retroactiveness. We also raised an issue that will be accepted, at least from the Commissioner's point of view, at the recent meeting we had, for young farmers starting an activity in 2009 and excluded from the regulation. It's a matter that promised us he'd see it. You can understand that when the main issue we raise is the entry of young farmers and we have problems we have to solve them. We also raised issues relating to the budget of the smaller islands...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u36	And in your dentistry, Mr. Minister, you'll talk about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u37	I conclude with the first part concerning the mid-term review. Because in the second we will talk about the next five years after 2020. Just for the Aegean islands - listen to it yourself, Mr President - there is a commitment and will increase the amount of 25 million that we predict, adding another EUR 14 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u38	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the "Worker of Democracy" educational programme organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, nineteen students and students and two teachers attending from the 28th Municipal School of Peristeri. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Arachovitis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, the debate, because it concerns both the existing and the new CAP, is very great. However, Minister, the inequalities that have to do with the national option based on historical rights remain and the injustices remain. New entrant farmers with old farmers, who had guaranteed historical rights, continue to have a huge discrepancy. It's a great injustice. It is a failure - I would say - at least if it were not a political feasibility of choosing 2014 in order for those who had guaranteed historical rights to keep them. In any case, we must look at this again in the context of Article 14 of the regulation which enables us to make it possible to amend and remove these injustices. However, when entering the debate on the new CAP, our country and Europe should also plan to put down and see what the key issues are. The first key issue is that the countries of the South, and in particular our own country, have been directly affected by the economic crisis and this, of course, has a huge reflection on the agricultural sector. The second is that, following developments and political changes in the northern hemisphere and especially the other side of the Atlantic, we have triumphs in globalisation and in international organisations, such as the World Trade Organisation. All this must therefore be taken into account in order to form a new common agricultural policy, which is clearly common and also an agricultural policy. In my opinion, the first thing that our country and the countries of the South must demand is not just containment of the budget, but an increase in the budget for agriculture. The second is that the high unemployment rates that both our country and the countries of the South can be tackled through the common agricultural policy and the creation of jobs, as well as support for primary production and food production. The third is - as you have said in your prototype - the related aid. The increase in the rate of traffic potential in related aids is a form of connection with production. We should therefore seek - I think - to maximise the connection with the production through the associated aid. Two further issues, not minor, but in turn, are firstly the immunisation of the effects of climate change. Climate change is here now. We already experienced it with last winter where it was very warm. In many fruit trees it did not help with the fruiting, such as the olive tree in Laconia, Messinia and Crete and other regions. And we have very low production for 2016. And it's a very big problem for our farmers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And I shall end, Mr President, with one more matter. And the latter is the shielding of agricultural income from the fluctuations in agricultural prices due to the speculation there is. Unfortunately, the food is treated as a merchandise and there is this ruthless speculation. This, however, takes note not by deducting a percentage of the CAP budget, but by creating a new fund that can support agricultural income both from speculative toys and from the effects of climate change. So I want the government's views on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u40	The Minister has the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u41	For the past six months, discussions have been initiated at the level of the European Commission and the Agriculture Council on the new CAP, after 2020. The main lines which we will follow are firstly, as you said, dear fellow Members, that agricultural policy in the new period must maintain its basic characteristics, namely that it must be common and rural. The common character must be maintained, because, if this is broken, the blow to the European structure will be huge, at a time when Europe, as a common institution, is being pushed in a variety of ways, but it is not time. This, of course, means that there must be the necessary and more flexibility, we have stressed it too many times. Because the specificities of each country are such that, if it does not have the relative flexibility in managing resources, it cannot serve the agricultural policy that it itself has and wants to support the rural area. Secondly, the agricultural nature of the CAP must be maintained by ensuring the production of quality and safe products and, above all, products resulting from sustainable environmental management. Thirdly, the common agricultural policy must be sufficiently strong and strong to meet the challenges of the time. For example, when we debate and agree that it is necessary for young people to be supported, to enter the rural area, to be renewed, it is necessary not only for our country, but also for many other countries of the European Union, particularly the countries of the south. Like the effects of climate change on rural activity, it is a matter of agricultural production, which certainly needs to be adopted, because all the countries of the South face problems. Fourthly, there needs to be sufficient funding for the implementation of this. So we are not only talking about maintaining the existing funding, but also about insisting on increasing the amount involved, given the enlargement, as well as the need. We have entered a dialogue process, we really are talking with the European Commission. We, of course, also emphasise another parameter, because, although cohesion within the European Union is the case, discussions between Member States must take place, but it is time to go into a process of taking into account the positions, proposals of movements and local society. All this because it is only through this process that the rural area will be able to express itself. We, from the Ministry's point of view, have already announced, have sent invitations, because this procedure must be completed. We will set up a working group to draw up the proposals that we will put forward for the new CAP 2020-2025, we will call on all actors, politicians, institutions, in general, I would say, all those involved in the rural area. It is very important in an hour that has emerged in our country that the agri-food sector can make a substantial contribution - you see that there are constant discussions, reports, dialogues on this particular issue - to get all together, so that our country can, in the next period, do what we are discussing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u42	Thank you. The fourth question under number 521/23-2-2017 will be discussed now in the context of the second question of Athens, New Democracy, Olga Kefaloyannis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the information on the findings of the management of the Anonymous Company of Intellectual Property. Mrs Kefaliannis has the floor for two minutes, but I would also ask you and the next one to keep the time, because at 12 noon there is a debate on the waiver of immunity.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u43	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, this is a great opportunity for you to enter a real order in the field of copyright management, in the light of accountability, transparency and legality, and to submit to Parliament the relevant bill, which incorporates the relevant Community directive in the national legal order. So I hope, Minister, that you will see it - and that is how you need to see it - so that the conditions can be met and that we can put an end to immunity and corruption in the whole of collective management. In July 2016, he submitted to Parliament by your predecessor, Mr Baltas, the relevant bill, which had passed through the public consultation, to which the comments had been incorporated and signed by eight ministers. This bill was withdrawn in one night, replaced by another, which was presented at a press conference by Mr Baltas, then changes to this draft law were released and shortly after the change of political leadership of the Ministry. We are still learning informally about various changes that are taking place in your day. We therefore learn and hear about changes to the draft law, we do not see a draft law, and the situation has risen dramatically since it has been made public to the media of the findings of a private audit firm on GDP, which was requested by the former Minister Xydakis. The findings of the management audit show not only mismanagement, but, I would say, they are tragicly scandalous: supernatant sums to the authors, a huge economic black hole, deficits, outrages and dividends for shareholders, illegal loans to members of the board of directors, associated companies belonging to the shareholders, with an exclusive customer in GNI, are only some of them. Conclusion? Deep and extensive corruption, mismanagement of authors and users. We have asked, Minister, immediately the conclusion of the management review to have it officially. We have asked for it through the relevant parliamentary procedures. We haven't seen it. Following the notification of the finding, the Prosecutor of First Instance has carried out a preliminary examination, accounts have been frozen, the previous court ruling of the Court of Appeal of Athens comes in and vitiates the authors who had been against the GDPI in 1997. On the one hand, there has been a situation where authors are extremely concerned if they can be fairly rewarded, whether they can manage their rights reliably and whether they receive the income they are entitled to, on the other hand, users want to know where the money they pay for public execution is going. But both authors and users have now lost their confidence in GDP as they are today, and that is why I would like you to answer us clearly, Minister, how you intend to ensure the smooth functioning of the collection and distribution mechanism of GDPI, how GDP will be cleared, in order to guarantee both the authors and the users and how it will be continued to avoid loss of protection of intellectual property and significant damage, both to the cultural and economic sectors. The second question is: According to the draft law - at least what we have seen up to now - GDP is expected to operate in accordance with the rules governing the other collective management organisations or are there specific provisions on it and, if so, what are these provisions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u44	Thank you. The Minister for Culture and Sport will answer Mr Connordou for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Kefalayannis, this is a very important time-consuming issue, so that we can finally resolve this time-consuming issue which concerns this anonymous company which is GDPI. I'm going to make a little historical retreat, about things that may be known and others may be less familiar. Already since the time of Amazing Melina, an attempt had been launched to provide a solution. Unfortunately, there were very great conflicting interests, and Melina didn't find allies, so this was abandoned. In 1991, too, there was a move by the great Greek composers, Xarchakos, Mamagakis, Kurupus, Garden, Koumedakis, who is now, as you said, vindicated. Since 1991, after twenty-five years! This is an indication of the appalling difficulty in solving this problem, and that is why it has not been solved for so many years. I can assure you that the Ministry of Culture is the priority to protect the authors and their work and to safeguard their rights. Alas, if we do not support creation and culture and do not recognise the trouble of thousands of creators who, in the difficult economic situation of our country, continue to serve their art. On the other hand, we also think it is necessary to restore confidence-building relationships between organisations, creators and users, which have been disturbed for years. As you said, it is very unpleasant to say that what has been revealed, although it has been assumed for decades that the largest copyright management company, GDPI, has been based so many years on such a poor foundation and on unhealthy mechanisms. As you know, it took coordinated and bold efforts and initiatives from my predecessors to the SYRIZA government and from me personally, which no one in previous governments dared to move forward, so that the phenomena of the mismanagement and opaque functioning of GNI could clearly come to light. It is therefore time to seek responsibilities from all those years that were rich at the expense of creators and users. The juncture is very good. We are ready to implement the framework for a new era of management of copyright and collective rights. On the occasion of the adoption of this European directive, Greek pathogens will be dealt with and rules on transparency and good administration of collective management bodies will finally be laid down. I repeat that it is our intention to restore trust. In this context, GDP will be refined. This is a one-way to protect the rights of authors and their rewards and will work under new rules and strict supervision. It is therefore planned to appoint a Commissioner with a high degree of independence. It is planned to be appointed for as long as necessary in order to continue the operation of the company and to rebuild it on solid, sound bases. As regards the general meeting and the GGI Supervisory Board, as in force for collective management organisations, a general meeting and supervisory board with increased, decisive responsibilities have been set up. Administration will even be controlled by the authors themselves and will not be able to act without at least their consent to the issues that concern them. For the first implementation of the law and for the immediate protection of the authors, the GGI Supervisory Board will be appointed by the Minister of Culture, following recommendations from the authors themselves and will be closely involved by authors - members of GGI. The next supervisory boards will normally be elected by the general meeting of the GI, as will be the case with collective management organisations, with the aim of the authors themselves to decide who will control the management of the company and how to manage their rights. At the same time, in GDPI, as in collective management organisations, rules on transparency are laid down in their operation, decision-making and action, so that everyone, users and creators can know their rights and obligations and be treated in the same way. The administrative costs of the IAC and of the GNI will not exceed 20% of their revenues and thus the authors will no longer receive the actual equivalent in their work without uncontrolled reductions for the benefit of members of the Board of Directors and of luxurious benefits. With regard to mutagenicity, both for GDP and for collective management organisations, a structured negotiation is established with users and representative associations, public posting of final reciprocities and compulsory electronic transactions in order to eliminate problems of the past. Finally, in order to ensure that there is no further crisis and insecurity in the area of copyright, strict supervision and control of collective management organisations and of GDPI are provided by the Ministry of Culture and Sport and the Intellectual Property Agency and the immediate imposition of sanctions if infringements occur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Kefaliannis, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u47	Madam Minister, I have listened with caution to you and indeed still remains the question with regard to the submission of the findings of the management audit for GDPI. I said again that you had to have officially informed us, through the institutional procedures, and you had to have the political reflexes, so that you could give us immediate information about your actions in this regard. You are well aware of the inconvenience that has been caused in the area of copyright, both to our creators and users. You said about the draft law that is to be submitted. By what procedure, Minister, and especially when will the draft law be tabled? As you have said, it seems that the draft law is ultimately different from what was submitted to the public consultation, I repeat, at the time of your predecessor, Mr Baltas, and finally withdrawn, the public consultation of the bill should be repeated. We expect it, although it really is incomprehensible for your government to speak of transparency, accountability, control and legality, when, for the same draft law, the government itself has presented within a period of about one year six different versions of it. Indecisiveness that says a lot about the political reflexes of your Ministry and the impossibility of moving forward in the legislature. Really, what exactly is the political will of your government? What exactly do you want to do? What political will do you have in one bill and what political will do you have in the other? In the end, can you explain to us what was going on and we go from one draft to another? Mostly, you now, today, what are you pushing and stalling? How much time is needed for you to end up with what you want to do, unless you don't even know what you want to legislate or unless you confuse the legislator who should legislate responsibly for the common benefit with the legislator who has the opportunity to legislate, so that he can satisfy the interests of groups or individuals. Explain to us and proceed to actions. Show efficacy. It goes without saying, for us too, that GDP should be refined, that it should continue to function. Creators should be fairly rewarded, they must feel that their copyright is not anyone's game and users can trust where they end up their money. Very simple and clear: protection of authors and users, institutional shielding of the area of copyright, effective control, accountability. I listened very carefully. You told us some of the provisions of the draft law, but I would like you to make it clear to us: are the conditions created, as is the case with the rest of the EDP, for the exercise of control over GDP? As far as the state Commissioner is concerned, when will he be called upon to take up his duties and what will they be? What will be the definition procedure? Will the supervisory board, which you have said, only have legislative and advisory powers, or will it have decisive powers? In addition, I want you to make it clear to us what is happening with the general assembly, with the responsibilities and who will be involved. For us it is very important, not just to get into new bases, but above all to get into healthy institutional bases, to proper and strict rules, all the procedures that solve problems and not add more to what already exists. I would like to tell you, Minister, that there are areas in society that are above parties and culture is one of them. If you treat the big patient and lay the foundations of sound collective management, you will not find us across. But if, from the failures, the inadequacy and the potential fraud of some people, collective management is collapsed, unfortunately, Minister, you will be the only one responsible, and then not only the opposition, but the whole world of culture will be against you. It's your responsibility, understand it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, my colleague. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u49	I am keeping what you have said lately, Mrs Kefaliannis, that this issue is beyond the parties. It has been a very important issue for the creators for decades. However, I assure you, we will not take twenty-five years to come to the deposit of the draft law. That's why I assure you. The fact that there has been dialogue and changes is precisely how difficult it is to be able to balance often conflicting interests and to find a medium-term solution, a balanced solution, which can be applied. Now, the D.A.'s finding was given for the legal proceedings and is at your disposal, even though it has been published in all of his information. But he is at your disposal to study it more. An attempt to eliminate these phenomena of mismanagement was made to the prosecutor. The OPI also requested additional management control over 2015 and 2016. We are following the planned administrative procedure for the imposition of sanctions and for the performance of responsibilities. We have taken care to deal with all issues within the draft law, possible bankruptcy, threatened bankruptcy, serious management problems. We have received throughout this famously very democratic views of all the creators and stakeholders and have formed the appropriate institutional framework to deal with all possible issues of complications. The Commissioner enters to ensure the continuity of the authors' revenues, the uninterrupted operation of the collector's mechanism and the resolution of the company and to allow for a greater decisive presence of the creators within the company. This, as I said before, is part of the operation of the supervisory board. I mean, our decision to clean up the landscape is a given one. We'd like you to be helpless in this great effort. The draft law has already been given to the General Accounting Office of the State. The latest small legal corrections are made, mainly to the remaining provisions, because they too are important, and the draft law will be ready to be submitted for public consultation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u50	Thank you. We move to the third with number 586/13-2017, a top-level question from the Member of Parliament, Achaias, the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on "important delays in the construction of the Patras - Pyrgos road axis". The Minister will answer Mr. Spirtzis. Please have the floor, Mr. Papatheodorou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in the construction of the Patras tower road, the government has chosen the practice of multiple partitions since 2015. You already know there are eight pieces, which you have decided you will auction. To date there have been considerable delays. Temporary minority you know that the "TOXOTIS S.A." consortium has been declared in the interests of Christos Kalogrisa, with discounts in the first four pieces exceeding 50% for each auction. In your statements, Minister, in the past you noted that the auctions will be completed in June 2016 and now you tell us about May 2016, so that the eight contracts will be sent to the European Commission, in order to integrate the project and to be financed by the ETUC at an amount of EUR 475 million. Look, on the one hand, Mr. Kalogritsa's judicial involvement is given. It is also a given survey launched by the Bank of Attica. This in the case that we might be interested in bringing about greater delays, with a risk that the project will not be implemented. I will only mention to you from the studies that have been carried out, the study carried out by the Technical Chamber of Western Greece, which said that the approval of the project co-financing file, as a major project, should have taken place since the second half of 2015, so that there would be a smooth integration into the implementation of the 2014-2020 EPA. It noted, and this study shows that any delay and change constitutes a serious time shift and jeopardises the availability of resources. So what we are asking, Minister, is this: what are the guarantees that you can give today that the project will be completed, that the project has maturity so that it can be integrated and that there is no risk of it being reinstated and directed towards money or resources in other more mature projects? Because I think that is interesting and worrying for the people of the region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u52	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, before I move on to answer your questions, I would like to make some clarifications, because we have had enough to tolerate gray zones and misinformation, especially from your resignation, on this subject. If I remember correctly, you're an academic. You're legal. Can you give me the term of the multiple partitions you used?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u54	In my dentistry, I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u55	I'm an engineer. I imagine that, if there are lawyers in the Chamber, they need to meet many times to give us the term of multiple divisions. So I will explain to you that there is a transparent picture of what is happening, because I see you as a fact that you are particularly interested in who the contractors will be. We were critical of the principle of governance, in 2015, because we did not go to a tender for the whole project. So let me remind you that the contest was scheduled by the Samara government. Before the part of this work was in the concession of the Olympia Road. I wonder why you're asking about the viability of the project. If this work was not sustainable and had a problem with its integration, it should really have a very big, not only political issue, but also a management issue, and Mr Soufflias and the next Infrastructure Ministers and the governments, who had this part of the project, within the single work of the Olympian road. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] So what we found was a project that could only participate companies of the seventh order. Most of these companies were in the consortium of the construction of the Olympia Road. There were other integrated studies, while in others there were no studies. One of the seventh grade companies, which did not participate in the Olympian road consortium, had relied on. Therefore, as you can see, there were issues that would take more than two, three, four years to unlock the project. There were financing issues, i.e. it was not ensured that the project was financed by the previous government. There were no studies in the regular practice and practice of the previous governments. There were other issues, like the court cases I said. There were serious objections to issues of non-healthy competition, because the studies had not been made by public services, but by the concessionaire of Olympia street. We have decided to do multiple competitive processes and not multiple partitioning, as you want to mention. The partitioning is used as a term in law, when we want to avoid competitive procedures, i.e. when we have had competitions as it was in the past, so that we do not have separate parts in the competitive processes. I'll get you an example, because it's in your area. Rail: We are doing a project that is just for infrastructure, another project for the same part that is just for electricity. We're doing another project for the same part that's signalling. We're not doing that, Mr. Papatheodorou. What we are doing is in self-evident sections to make competitive procedures for a single project, so that we can have more company involvement. It is something that European legislation does, and that is something that you also voted on in August. This is an article in the European directive. You who are and are in favour of opening up professions and markets, I imagine that you are very much in favour of such processes, not partitions, but of competitions. And that's very important. Of course, there are always different opinions or specs for fragmentation, gray zones and, of course, for the temporary contractor, Mr. Kalogritsa's company. And as a cherry, the Attica Bank enters. Firstly, there is the registries and it can inform the team and teams that make the competitions, the committees, whether there is a matter or not. There's nothing like that in my understanding. Secondly, why don't you ask your executives about the Attica Bank? They were and are still several of them in the management of the Attica Bank. So we can get the evidence to see what we're going to do. We're not making interventions at the Attica Bank. Others have done and I imagine they will show up who did them, because what we have shown is enough for who they did. But ask your executives. They have a full picture of what was happening at the Attica Bank. Why don't you ask them? We have said that seventy prosecutors, not only in the Attica Bank, but in all banks, should be put on plenty of light. The Bank of Attica has made three capital increases and the competent body, the Bank of Greece, had carried out all the necessary checks. If he didn't, he has a problem with the Bank of Greece, don't you think? Call Mr. Stournara a phone. He's your friend, he'll let you know. These as a foreword. Let's actually go now. The fact is that the project has no problem with its integration and has joined Law 1420. In accordance with the procedures that exist, in fact, we have two months behind, because the studies you prepared from the previous governments were so good that work could not be auctioned. We would have the wrong amounts, the wrong budgets, the wrong environmental studies, the subdivision, if you like, some experts and we can discuss the reasons at any time. This has been overcome and overcome through a very careful inspection of the service and correction of the studies in each department. We have the answer from the Ministry of Economy, which I can give you, and we will submit it. The entire project has been included in the 2014-2020 HEMERA programme. There have been four competitions. We don't care who the temporary shareholder is. We need to see who the final one is, because there are specific procedures that are now being respected and transparent, and we have four more tenders in the next period, so that after the fifth or sixth tenders, which we have a sufficient percentage, the Ministry of Economy can send the file for approval to the European institutions. [[At this point, the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport Mr Christos Spirtzis presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So there is absolutely no problem with funding. Do not worry at times, because every month we have an upturn of concern in the region. When the next competition takes place, a heroic member of a particular party is taken care of for a 20 - day, and he is concerned about the project’s course and whether the work will be done. It's going to be the play. And not only will this work be done, but also its continuity, until the Peloponnese road ring closes and the motorway built by Morrea S.A. connects to Olympia, with transparency and clear conditions, not as planned, with competitive procedures with discounts and not with a 0% discount, as planned by previous governments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u56	Thank you. Here, Mr Papatheodorou, you have the floor again for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u57	Mr President, I imagine the reason for the Minister was unlimited because I did not see any of your interventions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u58	The Rules of Procedure are, Mr Papatheodorou, so there is some tolerance in every direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u59	There has been a triple of time here. I have no objections, I am simply telling you that there is tolerance for me as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u60	However, I have asked - and I say this for you, I say it for everyone - that we keep the time, because at 12 noon we have the debate on waivers of immunity. So it also applies to the Minister and to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u61	Mr President, that is why I am telling you, with all due respect, that this should be the tolerance you will show in my position. Minister, first of all, the irony of heroic operatives on the party cannot be about us, because other heroic members of this party have turned to other places, knowing and having done the work very well before and after work. I will tell you this: you ask me what the term "dividend" in legal science means. "Shit" in Greek, Minister, means taking a ninety-seven kilometers of Patras - Tower road and cutting it into eight pieces. I imagine, as you said before, that this is European practice, for there to be widespread involvement of companies and companies. But let's get to basics. The basic thing is, Minister, that we did not discover the problems of the temporary partner or of the Bank of Attica. I would remind you that there is a monthly report from the Bank of Greece on the management of the Bank of Attica's funds and the financing of certain entrepreneurs from the Bank of Attica. Amongst these are the temporary shareholder. That's why I talked about judicial involvement. Judicial involvement means that there is a petition, so justice is being dealt with. So the problem that arises, Minister, is this: throughout the entire period and for the reasons which you have referred to, there have been four tenders of the work of the eight, there has been a specific temporary minority of the "TOXOTIS S.A.", which today seems to be unable to meet the commitments that it has made. You have a work with eight pieces of work, because that is how you decided and it also seems that time is going to pass and the tender procedure will certainly not be completed within these limits. I must also tell you that there is not only concern on the part of parliamentarians in the region. Two, three days ago, Vice-President Achaea said that in this partition, in these competitions, therefore, to use your terminology, Minister, no timetable has been observed, so he wondered how the timetable would now be complied with. I mentioned to you, even - apart from the protracted concerns - what had recorded a report from the Technical Chamber of Western Greece and said that there is a risk of the availability of the resources from the great delays that have occurred in the project. If we are here from 2015 to 2017 - and with the four contractors being in the air - tell me how in the next few months you will have delivered the file, as you said, to the Ministry of Finance, in order to obtain its approval - and indeed its approval, which I imagine will not only have an economic part, will also have a construction part - by the European Commission. In our view, the guarantee given today that within the next few months the project will have been completed is as worthy as the previous guarantees, with which the project was completed and could have been delivered and to date it has not been done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u62	Thank you. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. I'm starting at the beginning, Mr. Papatheodorou. On another occasion, those who supported the Samara government with the New Democracy and respected the democratic progressive principles of the socialist party and the Left.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u64	There's a lot of security guards.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u65	These were guardians on the Samaritan Left. So, let's see who went to another party and who did the job. The second is that I am pleased that you have abandoned the legal conditions applicable to public works and that we have gone to linguistics. We left legal science and went to philosophical. That's good. Slowly you'll tell the truth. The third is the report of the Bank of Greece. I'm really glad that Mr. Stournaras and the Bank of Greece staff finally decided to put the knife on the bone. And I've been waiting for their next actions for everything that happened in the whole banking system all these years. So I really watched it in a very good mood, because I had asked Mr Stournara and the Bank of Greece's staff, as President of the TEI five years ago, when the government then attempted to sell the Attica Bank to a fund, through the increase of equity and the Governor of the Bank of Greece agreed at that time. It was government then your space, your party, not the party.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u66	And you at the Attica Bank.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u67	No, I was never in the Attica Bank or the fund that supervised the Attica Bank. I was at the TEE. They may want some to confuse all this, but it's completely distinct. Totally! Besides, you can see the executives of the Attica Bank and from which areas they came. If the company "TOXOTIS S.A." is possible or if it has a judicial involvement and can't handle the tenders, these are not the ministers or political leaders either. These specific services are also responsible, not only according to the law, but also in fact, for supervising who can and cannot be supervised. The company "TOXOTIS S.E." is a temporary broker and until it is completed, see what the services will tell us, and then I am at your disposal and the services to answer you. And time passes. No schedule. I couldn't agree more. Consider how long it has passed since 2006 that this contract included the road, which had to deliver final studies on the road, which took place with the participation of your party in the previous government another process for the project and came out with a large part of the road outside, which, however, did not have any studies of the part you had taken off to Olympia Street. Well, no timetable. Not just any timetable, but also a glimpse of how public works were done in the country. A section, which had to be delivered on 31 March, had it not come out of the work of concessioning the Olympian road, not even had any studies on how it would be done. And as for the sections delivered by studies, they were studies that are audited for their reliability, not to say anything heavier. It is clear, therefore, that no timetable can be observed. And that is why we avoid making announcements and commitments as to when the project will end or being in the 'Kalakareta' logic. We are fighting a battle, and we are judged on the effectiveness of the projects. And they are judged to be effective in the projects and the previous governments, especially for those projects that were eleven years looking at them and negotiating. I would also like to send Mr Papatheodorou an invitation - I made it to the officials and MPs of the New Republic of Achaia - the Great Thursday to have a ouzo or a tsipouro in the central square of Patras, to celebrate the tradition of the new road. Citizens will finally, after a decade, go to Patras on a new road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u68	You mean the whole road is delivered from Corinth? So he's free right now? Because that's very interesting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u69	Yes, it will be the whole way, according to the timetable, apart from three or four points, which were identified - they are within the timetable and approval of the European Commission and the institutions - where we had archaeological work, which has not been completed, or the projects of the railway, which have not been completed. There will be all these three points ready in June - July, as we have given the timeframe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, too. I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 17 March 2017, where we shall have the Prime Minister's time. COURT OF FIRST INSTANCE (Rules 129(2) and 3, 132(1) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 595/25/13-2017 by the President of the Group of the European Parliament, Mr Leventis, to the Prime Minister, on 'Health problems'. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 590/13-3-2017 by MP Rethymno of New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Kefaliannis to the Minister of Home Affairs about the management of the waste of Zakynthos Law. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under number 587/13-2017, a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMARKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKK Confusion and its maintenance and safe operation responsibilities’. 3. The Question No 596/13-3-2017 by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Helen Zarulia to the Foreign Minister on the subject: "The World Bank "characterizes" the Aegean in Turkey". 4. The Question by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the recognition of a pre-service at the "ERT S.A." for employees of D.M.164/2006. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 591/13-3-2017 by MP Magnesia of the New Democracy Mr Christos Boukokouros to the Minister of Health on the sanitary abandonment of the Alonissos. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 602/14-3-2017 by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the licenses of assistant teachers. 3. The Question No 577/9-3-2017 by Independent MEP 2 of Athens Efstathios Panagoulis to the Minister of the Interior about the provocative use of chemicals in protesters despite the recent explicit ban on the government and the commitment of the Minister. 4. The question by No. 538/24-2-2017 of the MP Drama of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARMAR Kefalidou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on "in the air the task of extending the National Gallery". 5. The question asked by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Economy and Development about the integration of sewerage networks and sewage treatment of Kontovasina, Levidi and Calliani Arcadia. 6. The question by No 479/14-2-2017, by Evia MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Michou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, about the burden of marine ecosystems in the Mediterranean with radioactive waste. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. Eleni Zaroulia to the Minister of the Interior on the subject: "The Municipality of Kavala legalises the pseudos in a tourist exhibition in Constantinople". 8. The question asked by MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Manatis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the activation of the decision on pilot study of the Argos' (ZOE) zone. 9. The Question No 571/7-3-2017 by the Independent MEP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Economy and Development about the beer case and whether there are a jury in the Competition Committee. We continue with the next topical question, the fifth under number 532/24-2-2017, a topical question for the second cycle of the Member of Parliament II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the fleet of urban transport. Please, Mr. Kammenos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u71	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much for giving the Greek Parliament and us as part of our parliamentary control to see a very serious issue concerning the urban transport of Athens and not just. It's a double matter. The first issue to be raised is the old age of the fleet, trains, spare parts, maintenance contracts, how many buses are circulating, how many trolleys are circulating, how many trolleys do not circulate, whether there are spare parts or if there are no spare parts, how many of these cars are old and polluting technology. I expect you to give us some clues. Over a thousand two hundred buses should be withdrawn because they pollute with emissions of Euro I and Euro II. They've got to retire completely. There's someone who doesn't get into the ring. All these issues come to be dealt with by our own government. I am not saying and I do not know what has happened in Greece for so many years on the issue of urban transport, even though the fleet has been renewed. It was financed for its renewal, financed the construction sites, withdrawn bad vehicles or unsafe vehicles from the fleet. That's a big part of the question. The second large part that has emerged in recent months is vandalism in both cancellation machines and metro electrical doors, let alone trolleybuses and buses. Is it now - could we say - a state of 'double horror', like the pearls or the trek of terror, that is, the citizen enters into a first phase, is afraid to enter? Is there a way he can protect himself? It is not your issue, it is a matter of the Minister of Public Order, which I will present directly, and I have a question and a question on it. But I want you to tell us about the level of damage, what destruction has been done by vandalism, what we have noticed and whether the fleet is to be renewed for the proper functioning of urban transport, to do the social work that must, above all, be done safely and environmentally soundly. Because technology buses in 2000-2001 cannot currently be transported either with one or two million kilometres or without tyres. If you want, at the end of my dentistry, we'll talk a little bit about the Greek train station. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u72	Before I give you the floor, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, twenty-four students and students and four of their educational attendants from the High School and the PAAL Cantanou Chania. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kammene, unfortunately the situation we have received for the fleet of thermal buses has been - and unfortunately nothing else has been planned - dramatic. A euro was not scheduled in the NSRF to buy a new fleet, new buses or trolleys. The situation was dramatic. I can, if you want, give you the painting to have an image. We had found two thousand three hundred eighty-seven thermal and electric buses. We have had seventy-seven vehicles since 1988, seventy-seven-seven-seven-nine vehicles since 2004, since 2000, from 2000 to 30-nine vehicles - what I say to you is oil - since 1993, two hundred-sixteen vehicles, since 2009, and the others. In total, of the two thousand three hundred eighty-seven thermal and electric buses, unfortunately the thousands of seven hundred and twenty were active. This means that the rest could not be used. Many of the seven hundred and twenty, too, could not be used because they lacked spare parts, their maintenance was incomplete, the competitions and the way in which they existed from the previous government was such that it was completed in six and seven years. In other words, there were buses that were immobilized because they did not have tyres, batteries, etc., for such reasons. You understand how this has brought this urban transport. In addition, we had a dismantling of the staff of urban transport, whether by redundancies or by transfers, so that we had very few drivers from those who really needed to have a reliable and quality transport operation. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I would like to tell you that in 2016 the maintenance cost of EUR 3 million was reduced, because they stopped the large majority from making supplies with rough tenders and the major replacement contests were completed. I would also like to say that we have found a terrible phenomenon, which I do not know if you have met it anywhere else. It has become a very big bus supply many years ago. These buses all these years the urban transport company has been using them, but they have not been received. How is that possible? That's what I asked. How is it done for too many years - we are not talking for two or three years, but for over ten years - hundreds of buses running in the streets of Athens and not being received and pending for EUR 7-8 million in spare parts, differences and various other things? That is the situation we have received. I'll tell you what we're doing today and what we're trying to do. In cooperation with the Ministry of Economy we have found 30m euros since the new programming period for the supply of buses. We are in cooperation with the European Investment Bank in order to lend ourselves. I do not mean lending the Greek State, but urban transport, to go ahead with a new supply of thermal buses. At the same time, we are looking for additional solutions to have a new design for urban transport, a design where buses will move citizens from the neighbourhoods of Athens to metro stations and fixed tracks. This means that the U.S.S. design needs to be changed. It must have small buses entering narrow streets. We need to look at the electromotion so we don't have any nuisances. We have to go to another logic, especially when the first part of Line 4 of Metro will be auctioned in the month. This means that we will have a quite large network as soon as Line 4 and Line for Piraeus is completed. So our buses must also be integrated into another design by the one they already have today. Now, on the issue of storage, I should like to give you the necessary information, even though vandalism, the disasters that are taking place, are very topical. If you see the evidence, you will find that it is not more of these phenomena now than in previous years that were not so popular. This does not mean that these phenomena should not stop. My opinion is - and I say it very openly and publicly - that these vandalisms, the majority of these phenomena are not due to either political groups or to hooliganism from the courts - there are such things - but they are due and related to specific interest groups. They began to manifest when we announced the political decision to keep the metro stations not by private companies but by the Greek Police and then developed these phenomena, when we had the revelations about the circuit and the factories of the counterfeit tickets that were found, and of course about the installation of the new electronic ticket system, which will save us a lot of money from such activities in particular, organized and illegal interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, too. Mr Kammenos, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u75	Thank you very much. I don't know if I should be happy or sorry. Now I'm laughing at my nerves, Minister. I'm sorry about the reaction. This is a huge complaint. I don't know if you understand, colleagues. So, today you're telling us that there are interests destroying buses and trolleys, burning them in the center of Athens because, firstly, they're likely to want to pass the spare parts and the maintenances on some interests and, secondly, because we changed the way the stations were stored, which went from private company to Greek police? Do you understand what we're talking about today? The first thing is that. That's great! That is why we are not talking about it. Minister, you made a complaint. We may be confronted, but you know that here we control ourselves. We'll see about it. It's a very serious complaint. There is a second complaint to be recorded by everyone. I would ask colleagues to pay great attention. You're saying they're running buses, which haven't been received?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u76	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u77	How's it going? So that's what they're working on, right? So if I don't pick up the fleet that I've made a contest, is this fleet illegally released? What if there's an accident? Also, what you're telling me is that there's 7 or 8 million dollars left for spare parts? So, because they haven't been received, don't we have any spare parts? Is that what you're answering? Don't we have the spare parts? I didn't get it. There will be a dialogue, Mr President, with your tolerance, so that I can understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u78	Mr President, with your permission to answer so that the honourable Member does not have any questions. They haven't been delivered for over a decade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u79	Ten years walk around without having received?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u80	For more than ten years they have been released and have not been received. And from the competition that had taken place then, if I remember correctly, there is an economic difference in the order of 8 million, which this company had to deliver in spare parts and hadn't delivered it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u81	But the question, Mr Minister, is why they have not been delivered.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u82	Yes, Mr. President. That's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u83	And it is not just that they have not been definitively received - this is a process - it is a matter of wondering and how they are not received and thus circulate all these years from the OSCE.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u84	But this is all an illegal act, Minister. And I would like to continue - with your tolerance, Mr President - by saying that today and within the parliamentary control procedure it has been recorded that there have been more than a decade of buses which the Greek State has not received, which is a flagrant violation of every regulation. However, let us not catch up on this issue and delay. Secondly, because there are interests - and I mentioned them in my prototype - how many buses did not go for scraps, how many buses circulate or become vandalism and plundered, to get spare parts and to make other, so the orders for spare parts in the old fleet clearly serve some interests. We've got them in the trains with huge maintenance costs. I remember with Mr. Panussis and Mr. Toska what we were talking about in the police cars. Eighteen grand a year for a car with half a million miles, when a new car would take it with seven grand and we couldn't! So here - and thank you, Minister, for the complaints you have made - the situation is tragic. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I want you to tell us whether and whether we should do something as parliamentarians - that is something I do not know - to report your complaint. They cannot continue to drive buses, since we have not received them. So we're gonna have to pick it up. Are we getting them? What are we gonna do? Who have the responsibilities? Why wasn't they received? Which Ministries, which Ministers and which administrations were? Was it both OSH and STASY or the Ministry of Transport or the Ministry of Transport then? Those responsible must be recorded because they all bear a huge responsibility, because at the moment we are talking about an illegal act, which is a malicious infidelity against the public. This is my complaint. Secondly, the fact that buses are vandalised and destroyed by interest groups, either for spare parts or for the preservation of stations, is also a complaint to be investigated. And I close by saying that I've made the suggestion to put on cameras. That's something we've all lived on since we've gone abroad. Let's get the cameras on. I don't know if it's hard to pass through the committees and the Personal Data Authority. But I think the Personal Data Authority will understand the purpose. Whether violations of the Road Traffic Code, vandalism or violence within the buses or theft of our fellow people within the buses, a camera should probably be introduced. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] That's a proposal I'm leaving open. But please, Minister, let us give at least a clear answer to what we are going to do about this flagrant illegality you have denounced today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u85	Here, Minister, you have the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr President. The OSCE and OSCE administration have been instructed to take all necessary steps to close this loose end. And I'm talking about non-receipt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u87	But with responsibility, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u88	Apparently with responsibilities! And to investigate why all these years we have been in this situation. Apparently with responsibilities! From that point on, our effort is not repressive, Mr Cammene. Our effort is to provide the citizens with as much quality and quantifiable transport as we can in these difficult circumstances. I believe that we are talking for another time about buses with the completion and operation of the electronic system at stops and buses. In other words, we no longer have the images we have had in the past, such as running the citizens in a position in the middle of nowhere. Each citizen can schedule his work and know exactly what time the bus will spend, what time he will go to work and all the rest. And that's a big difference. I think it is a duty for all of us and, above all, the government to speed up negotiations with the European Investment Bank, so that we can have a great renewal of the bus fleet and not just. We have an outdated fleet on fixed tracks. Line 1 of rolling stock is not in the best condition. So there, really, we should do everything we can to have other types of urban transport, other quality, other buses and other trains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Next is the sixth question under number 562-6-3-2017, the second question of the new Republic MP Evros Evros, Anastasios Publics, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, concerning the "delays in the completion of the vertical road axis of the Nea Egnatia Road, Adrani - Ormenios". Here you go, Mr. Publics. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in June 2015, we discussed in this Chamber again my timely question, as regards the completion of the vertical axis of the Nicaraguan-Ormeni Egnatia, and you said at that time that you would try to complete the remaining section by the end of 2015, as planned in the timetable. And yet, we arrived in 2017, and still looks like a joke and even a bad taste when both the Mandra - Psathides section, which is the controversial part, and the rest of the Armenian - Mandra section, will be released. Since you yourself saw that there are so many problems, shouldn't you have come to Evros for a long time to lead meetings, to carry out autopsy, to solve the problems that arise? Sadly, however, problems have been multiplyed today and the work has not been delivered. To listen to yourself and not to be taken by third parties what are the obstacles to the completion of the project. You chose, however, to be incapacitated. On 28 February this year in the Municipality of Sufli the last meeting took place on this matter at the initiative of the local mayor, where all relevant bodies and services participated. Unfortunately you were missing, but also your representative, to see personally the agony of the competent bodies, representatives of local government, people who lost their own people, loved ones on this bloody road. I want you to know and to know that in a section of fourteen kilometres our fellow citizens were killed, forty-eight were injured and ninety-five traffic accidents took place. It's the only way, which really demands the pan-Hellenic originality to have such a blood tax, to have such unbelievable heavy and unjust pain. No one else, I think, - and you know it well - has this frequency of traffic accidents. The problems, Minister, are not solved by the Athens ministerial offices, especially when it comes to sensitive areas. We want you near us, of course, not for the opening, which you went to Rhodope the other day, but for the construction and completion of the works and, above all, for the road construction that you really...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u91	Mr. Purchass, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u92	This time you have a specific programme, Minister? I ask you: when will the road be completed? When will it be delivered into circulation? We want dates and we expect specific commitments before the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u93	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u94	Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf, I thought I was a Member of Parliament and Minister of the New Democracy, with what you asked me. I actually came back from Komotini yesterday. Apologise for our things. So in Rhodope, we completed the work of the vertical axis with a competition that took place in 2015 and completed in 2017 and performed a ceremony to deliver the vertical axis of Rhodope to the Greek people. And we don't have any landscaping logic. Every time this is done and delivered to the Greek people, we state that the works do not belong to any government, to no minister, to any regional mayor or mayor, they belong to the Greek people who pay them. We are also judged on their effectiveness, transparency and cost. However, we will not apologise for the sins of the works that we inherited. This is a competition that took place in 2004, eleven years, like all the others, and you give up on us, why isn't it over? May I remind you of the companies that have gone through there that have been down again? For God's sake! So the competition took place in 2004. In 2012 it was replaced by another company. I don't want to call company names. The company obviously had other problems, and the services went to another company. We will not apologise for that. I have here the table of expropriations from the service, which I shall present for the Minutes. We will not apologise for the fact that in 2010, 2013, 2014, for the work that took place in 2004, expropriations were being made. Apologise? There's always the state, but I'm not gonna apologize. [[At this point, the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport Mr Christos Spirtzis presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The hierarchy that the country had to have on the vertical axes of Thrace from Egnatia to Bulgaria is as follows: First and foremost, the vertical axis of Evros had to be completed. The first vertical axis to be completed is Evros, not only for the combined transport and the project we have, but because it is a prefecture that must have integrated infrastructure. The citizens of Evros must be supported in order not to have this feeling of abandonment, which both the Thraces and, above all, the citizens of Evros have been living for decades. Then it's Rhodope and then it's the vertical axis of Xanthi. For what we can commit is that the first part of the vertical axis is completed in August 2017. And in 2018 the other vertical axis of Evros will be completed. For what we can also commit is that very soon the competition for the vertical axis of Xanthi will also come out. The vertical axis of Xanthi will be auctioned. That is why we can commit ourselves. And what you can really control us or blame us is if on the vertical axis of Xanthi, as it was in Rhodope, we will be delayed, there will be no expropriations, if we will have continuous substitutions of companies in the project and all the rest that we have observed in the project, for which you are asking me. In August 2017, therefore, one contractor will be ready from the two and the beginning of 2018, so that the other will finally be completed after 2004, after fourteen years, the vertical axis of Evros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u95	Mr. Prussakis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, this is the Chamber of the Greek Parliament. We don't do a history lesson. We're doing parliamentary control. You're welcome. At the moment, the people of a prefecture are disgraceful, they are angry, they are angry, because you do not know the situation. You haven't come to see her in person, experience her.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u97	Haven't I come?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u98	You're here the day before yesterday for the opening. You didn't come to Evros to see the situation. I would also like to say to you this: You have also stated in Komotini that, before Parliament, one part of the work will obviously be completed in August 2017. And the rest will be completed in 2018. In 2018 it starts in January and ends in December. What month will it be over? Leave the scenery blurred again. The people of Evros can't stand it anymore. He already feels frustrated, despised, and, like I said, angry. Half-words, promises without commitments, we don't accept. We've got a problem. We want you to understand that. In the recent conference in the Municipality of Souflis we talked again about the same problems that EGNATIA S.A. faces with funding, mainly because of capital controls and not just because of capital controls. Status is observed in the Ardane - Mandra section due to expropriations. And delays are observed in the Mandra - Psathadas section, due to the lack of inert materials, as well as parallel works carried out by the OSE. In June 2015 you said that the then Deputy Environment Mr. Chironis, your next Minister, would look, solve the issue with the region, with regard to quarries, in order to operate another in the prefecture, in particular in the area of northern Evros, because the cost of transporting materials is excessive. I do not wish to point out that your services say that the works carried out over Soufli are at stake due to the materials by 30%. There was also a legislative provision at your disposal as regards the operation of the quarries in the north of Evros. EUR millions have been lost, Greek taxpayers' money, and we still have this terrible picture on this highway, which needs further state funding. Really, how much extra and why? Will you send the case to justice? Because we have a serious problem. Will you finance the project? Right now they're all waiting. What decision are you going to make? You won't let us know. I insist and will continue to insist, because the vertical axis is a work of breath for Evros, which will contribute to the economic progress of the prefecture and Thrace in general. Besides, you in your speech the other day, at the inauguration of the vertical axis of Nymfaia, stressed that the role of the vertical axes is to help in the circulation of tourist and commercial travel. So you understand how much it hurts our county financially the delay in the completion of the motorway. You are talking about growth when you cannot create even the most simple conditions to help stimulate the local economy. Will you create, as a government in Northern Evros, all the conditions for secure economic and intangible security of inert material and legal acceptance of borrowing soil, but legal in order to address both these projects, which are done and what will be done in the future? Please, Minister, please take the situation in your hands personally and put a bet on yourself. You can do this, and I believe you will have the support of all of us, not least the speaker. I am going to be with you as soon as you come up and have the meeting that is required. Can't you come upstairs? We'll be there. However, this situation cannot continue, it does not look forward to a price in the Greek state.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u99	Mr. Purchass, let's finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u100	From the east to the west to seeing a picture unacceptable. He doesn't care for all of us we're in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u101	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u102	Mr. Prussakis, we know we're excluded from the media, they're not our friends, but, frankly, I'm talking to you, ask a colleague of the New Democracy, if you've seen me locked up in my office and not going to all the regions of Greece, tell me, because I'm gonna start wondering who I am. For God's sake! Haven't I come to Evros? Of course I have come to Evros and at critical times, when all the prefecture had been flooded, and we had to take measures and have a plan for the disasters that have been done, so that the phenomena that have taken place are not repeated, and not to repeat them all these years. But do not give up on me on matters - I want to be very elegant in my wording, particularly toward you - relating to the responsibilities of the previous governments. You put the matter of inert materials, very nice. Who is responsible for the fact that in the Prefecture of Evros, with so many kilometres of road, there is a quarry of inert materials on the southern side of the prefecture and there is four and five times the cost to buy some inert materials only from there? Now that's what happened? Who shut down and didn't grant funding permits to have a corresponding reservoir on the north side the county? Is that Chironi's fault? Don't go crazy for God's sake! All these years there's been a very pretty job in Evros from a business. Let's blame Cironi. It's your fault! Okay, now. I have particular sensitivity for Thrace and the human relationship and friendly relations I have with the region and you know it very well. If you want me to go upstairs and that's the desire of local society, I'll come. I don't have a problem. But that has nothing to do with what we're talking about. I told you, in the summer, specifically in August, one will end and within 2018 the other will end. Why don't I say a specific month? I'm not saying a specific month with the sins that this work has. And you know very well that because this vertical axis has been funded by both the third CSF and the NSRF, one of them cannot be financed from the new programming period. So we will also need national resources to finance it. And we've found them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Last but not least, we will discuss the third question by No. 2522/11-1-2017 of the Athens MP Mr. Kostis Hatzidakis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "In the automatic pilot, the urban transport of Athens. A large reduction in revenue and a widening of deficits." Mr. Hatzidakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u104	Minister, on the basis of what we know, the situation in the urban transport of Athens, in all aspects but mainly in economics, goes from bad to worse. On September 29, 2016, some economic data were published in the press, describing the evolution of things in black. I put a question to you, you didn't answer me. Then on 11 January I retabled the question again, you did not answer me. And that is why I turned the question into a timely one in order to receive some answers, I hope. What are the elements we have known so far from you? That while in 2014 the OSCE had an operating surplus of EUR 4 million, in 2015 it finally closed with an operating deficit of EUR 28 million. We also know that the group turnover between 2014 and 2015 decreased by about 19%. What else do we know? We know the data of the first five months of 2016 on SSY, which on the revenue side represents 2/3 of the OSCE group. What have we seen there? That in the first five months of 2015, SASY had revenues of EUR 56 million. The first half of 2015 EUR 45 million. The first five months of 2016 EUR 36 million. A fall of 37% in revenue in two years. Why? Because you made barbarians then with the referendum, free movement of voters, because they are hardly at all, they have relaxed the controls, because your auditors have been dispersed with tolerance and because various groups of the population are moving - and I am sure they are moving, because I am sure you will try to distort my position - but they are covered by the relevant budgets of the Ministries. The result is that the account is increased and the account is paid by Greek taxpayers and among them the inhabitants of Alexandroupolis, Heraklion Crete, Patras, Larissa, who pay for the travel here of all the rest. In addition to all others, the increase in deficits means what, Minister, because you referred to the lack of spare parts beforehand. That you don't have the money you have to do to keep it. So you're the Minister, you've been seeing deficits growing so long, checks not being done, auditors crossing, spare parts not being on buses and just observe. You are not an observer if you are in your position. No one put you to observe the developments and denounce the previous ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u105	Mr. Hatzidakis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u106	I shall conclude, Mr President. You have been in the government for two years now, Minister, and you must explain what the economic situation is. I am therefore waiting for tables and comparative data to be submitted to inform the House and the Greek citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u107	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u108	Mr Hatzidakis, thank you very much for the timely question. I want to be very careful against you in my words, because we have a mutual sympathy, if you like. If I wanted to make a provocative position, I would say that you are asking a timely question for internal party reasons.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u109	For buses?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u110	For Athens' urban transport. When after the first months of governance we tried to change administrations in urban transport, you accused us of going to do party armies in urban transport, that is to say, in the areas where you and PASOK have the main body of party groups, not to apply your policy but to serve specific party needs and mobilisations. Well, that's a good thing. If I remember correctly, the President of the OSCE - I had denounced him at that time for what had not been done, you told us that we were changing him to make a party army - the President and Managing Director of the OSCE is your Director-General, the New Democracy today and the President and Managing Director of the OSCE has been a member of the New Democracy for many years. I really can't understand if you've even asked them about their accounts. Let me remind you of them, then. I'll give both the paintings and the official OSCE answers to see who's telling the truth and who's lying. The deficit that your party officers, the leaders of the party armies you had set up for decades in urban transport, was in 2015 EUR 100.761.396 and the operating deficit reached EUR 86.751.480.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u111	When? In 2015? Who was the Minister then?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u112	In 2015. What I'm saying is what we received. I'm not saying any more. For your administrations, I say, that when we changed them, we attempted and built, as you are complaining, in one year the party armies of SYRIZA and ANEL. I'm talking about laughing at people now. And the cumulated debts to third parties, left by these administrations, amounted to 190,000,000 euros. You blame us and do it deliberately. I understand the ideological and political differences, but this must have a line. You are accusing us of doing all this in urban transport, because we were caught by the "quarantines" in the summer of '15s with the capital controls and we gave for fifteen - twenty days free movement to the citizens of Athens. It's worth ten million. With the orgy that's been happening all these years in urban transport, that's a drop in the ocean. No one put it in his pocket or commissioned at a higher price. Citizens moved freely neither SYRIZA nor ANELs. We are told, for example, about other barbarians, as you are free to move the unemployed. Shouldn't I? I wish we had the financial potential...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u113	Did I say no?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u114	Yeah, but you're denounced.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u115	I don't denounce it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u116	You say, "Woe, you've been caught by the bardals."
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u117	Minister, please conclude. You have time in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u118	Mr President, I shall end. Excuse me, but in some things, I'm indignant. So I'll tell you about other varnishes. I will tell you about the varnishes that I answered before Mr Kammenos in his question, for the buses that have not been received and circulated, and for eight million euros to be opened for spare parts. I will tell you that the replacements contests are not completed and that urban transport is provided with spare parts by direct awards and hand-written tenders. I'll tell you what I'm going to tell you, the same company has decades of bus safety, and buses that are insured, and we can't use them. I'll tell you what, bards for the storage of stations and buses. There you can see the varnishes, because we need to reduce the state and the private sector have security services. I'll tell you what, pasta for cleaning and cleaning the cleaners' contractors. Be in a gallery and save some contractors and not have the result we want. I'll tell you varnishes for fake tickets and factories that print fake tickets and at the same time they took the contest to print the regular tickets. These are the bardals that brought the urban transport to the place where they were brought. Mr President, I am tabling the OSCE tables and answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u119	Good. You've completed your prototype, obviously. Mr. Hatzidakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u120	Mr President, I would remind the Minister and all my fellow Members, who believe that they are following us, that my question was entitled 'the financial results of the OSCE in 2016'. To make comparisons of 2014, 2015, 2016 and see how the deficits are evolving. The Minister has all referred to the question of the question no. And we need to look at the tables and then the journalists, to see obviously the expansion of deficits. Because since the first five months we've had the evidence, we know that the thing went from bad to worse. Secondly, the Minister denounced the three directors of management found by the New Democracy. He forgets to tell us one thing though. He's two years Minister. One whole year he had kept these people he denounced. Who made him keep them? Did I force him?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u121	Please, come on. Quiet. Please calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u122	We are now reaching the limits of political surrealism.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u123	Change or not change?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u124	Mr. Polakis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u125	Mr. Polakis, he can do it alone. No need for crutches. I want to think he's self-contained.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u126	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Just yesterday we had a conversation about the health staff...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u127	Please be very quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u128	What happened, it's just that the three people who had positive results in their work in 2014 -- and they say it all -- were not allowed to do their job as they knew in 2015. The Minister didn't see them at all, even though he kept them in command. He made all these benefits from his pocket, like buses and trolleys and metro were his father's and increased deficits. That's what this is about. From there on I want to say something else. The Minister comes today not to answer the question and says a number of other things and says about traffic buses that have not been officially received and so on. And he denounces this scandal in his view. The question I raise, Mr President, and let every good Greek citizen think about it, is this: is the Minister who today denounces this scandal, why is he forgetting that he is in his chair for two years? If it's a scandal, Minister, you are denouncing yourself. At last, how much do you want to drive us crazy in this place? Where's your government finally taking it? Where are you going to get with this political surrealism? That really goes beyond any previous!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u129	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u130	Mr President, I have to thank the New Democracy really. So this thing can't be done! Let's see what surrealism is. First of all, I'm not two years Minister, I'm late to swear. But let's say I'm two years old. We have a birthday, I don't have a problem with that. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Let's go to the next one. I, Mr Hatzidakis, am proud that tomorrow I will leave my place, the Greek people will not remember me for the sale of the Olympics, but for the completion of the projects that have been slamming for decades.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u131	For the partition.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u132	Please, Mr. Hatzidakis, calm down. Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u133	The second, Mr. Hatzidakis. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Leave, don't open up such issues, because when it's done, we'll laugh.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u134	Minister, please don't respond. Continue your placement to complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u135	Secondly, you asked for data and tables. Of course we'll give you one. We filed it, but so you don't waste time to talk to you. We have an increase in the group's revenues of EUR 9.5 million in relation to your successful reform administrations.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u136	What year?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u137	We have...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u138	What you're saying is unlike what you've testified on your own.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u139	Look at them, Mr. Hatzidakis. Don't get angry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u140	But I'm outraged. You'll make us believe we don't know our names, that we're others.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u141	You complain to us that the hordes of communism have come to have parties in urban transport, and at the same time you complain to us that we have not changed administrations a year. Decide which of us we did. Or some cans came in to change the administrations, the enlightened technocrats or we left them a year. What of both?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u142	It was our two-year-old.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u143	Let me tell you the evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u144	The deficit for the years 2014, 2015 and 2016...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u145	As shown by the table, you know the urban transport deficits, to understand the whole Chamber and all the citizens, are related to the money that the Ministry gives to urban transport. When you gave some tens of millions of urban transport in various ways, from different ways, you come along and say 'the deficits'. The deficits will be looked at and compared on a specific basis. In other words, what revenue was received from urban transport and what subsidies and other aids the Greek State gives to the urban transport organizations.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u146	Okay, but say three numbers. Three numbers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u147	No triples to us. We're good defensive too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u148	There are no triples. Three numbers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u149	It follows from the table and the tables I have submitted to you on the provisional financial statements, firstly, that the total income of the OSCE Group exceeded EUR 9.5 million, i.e. 3%, the target of revenue. Total costs were improved by EUR 44.4 million, i.e. 11.2%, compared to the cost target and the cost accounting balance was set at EUR 22.8 million minus EUR 77 million, i.e. improved by 54 million, Mr Hatzidakis. And of course...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u150	Good, tell us the deficit in every year.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u151	Please don't interrupt, Mr. Hatzidakis!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u152	And of course...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u153	Minister, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u154	I shall conclude, Mr President. Because, Mr. Hatzidakis, and in December of '17 and '18 and '20 on these benches, SYRIZA, the Minister of SYRIZA, whoever he is, will tell you in December of this year what was the robbery in the urban transport...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u155	Three numbers I want, for the years 2014, 2015, 2016. Why don't you tell them?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u156	Three numbers, I'll tell you. He'll tell you what was the robbery that was going on from the circuits you left in the urban transport, that they didn't apply the online ticket for years...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u157	Who did it? Wasn't I a minister? Who did it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u158	You didn't apply it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u159	Who did the telematic?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u160	Mr. Hatzidakis, is that how we're gonna take it now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u161	All of you signed it all. Projects, systems, all of you signed them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u162	Minister, can you hear me? Mr. Spirtzi, are you done?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u163	I will say one more, Mr President. I have given Mr Kaklamanis - for you to be informed - I have tabled in the Minutes of the House and the audit report of the general inspector, but also two reports of 2012 and 2014 to the enlightened, technically amazing administrations that you had, who were saying in terms of all these phenomena, the procedures that were in place, where there were gaps and which you did nothing, Mr Hatzidakis. We had to come to find them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u164	This is where you're finished. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate on this point has been concluded.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u165	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION Requests for waiver of immunity: debate and decision, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and Rule 83 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, on applications for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament, etc. 1. Socrates Vardakis 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Theodorou Fortsakis and 3. Seventy-two (72) in active parliamentarians, and in particular the Zakari Theodoras, Athanasios Charalambos, Anastasiadis Savvas, Andrian Ioannis, Antonis Maria, Arabatzi Fotinis, Asomakoulou Anna - Michel, Aygeiadis Eleftherios, Varvitsiotis Miltiadi, Vessiropoulos Apostolos, Vlachos Mavroudi, Vulture Sophia, Vroutis Ioannis, Georgiou Georgiou Georgiou, Georgios Spiridoni - Adononi, Yakoumati Gerasimou, Konstantinou, Davakis Athanasios, Athanasios Kantolios, Kantouloumanis Koutsandou, Kandalinos Koutanisandou, Kandalinos Kandallou, Kandallos Kandallos Kandallou, Kandallos Kandallos Kandallou, Kandallos Kandallou, Kandallos Koutanistan The report was announced by the relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics on 8-3-2017, according to which the members of the Committee proposed by a majority that Mr Socrates Vardakis should not be removed. The report was announced by the competent Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics on 8-3-2017, according to which the members of the Commission proposed by a majority that Mr Theodoros Fortsakis should not be lifted. The report was announced by the relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics on 8-3-2017, according to which the members of the Committee proposed by a majority that the absence of immunity of seventy-two active MPs should be waived. Under Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, the House does not enter the substance of the cases, but only investigates whether the act in respect of which the waiver of immunity is sought is linked to the Members' political or parliamentary activity or to prosecution, lawsuits, detention or political feasibility. In accordance with Rule 83(7) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, which states that the Parliament shall decide by raising the hands or adjudicating upon the request of the Public Prosecutor, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 108(1)(b), the floor shall always be given on request to the Member to whom the request relates and to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups or their Deputys. I would remind you that, in accordance with a decision of the Conference of Presidents of 23 March 2005, we have accepted in respect of applications for waiver of immunity the House has decided by roll-call vote and by roll-call vote. The vote in which each fellow Member will list his name, his constituency and the parliamentary group, which will be registered in the respective Minutes. That is how we respond to the provisions of Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, which requires a clear vote. After the debate on the cases of today's special agenda is concluded, we shall proceed to a roll-call vote, as I have described. The first case concerns Mr Socrates Vardakis, the second case concerns Mr Theodoros Fortsakis, and the third case concerns seventy-two active MPs. Is there any colleague requesting the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure? Nobody. The second request, is there any colleague requesting the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u166	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u167	Here, Mr Fortsakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u168	Mr President, I wanted to say a few words to my fellow Members that this is a complaint which has been filed unwrittenly against me, and it accuses me of saying that in March - April and September 2013 I did not put a university professor on holiday, who had been sentenced to a document falsification. The answer is very simple. I became a dean a year and a half later. This unsubstantiated reference is clearly and in a way - if you like - unsubstantiated and I wonder how it arrived in the House. He had preceded a post in a magazine, in which I then indifferent to answer it, because I thought the case was completely unreliable, and today it appears in the House, with a view to simply reducing me. I am simply taking the matter into account and putting it to Parliament's judgement. Thank you. I should like to point out that even if I was dean at the time, the person concerned could not have been put on a holiday because his own offence is not among those who put on holiday. He had handled the case, Mr. Peglinis, and he had handled it very well, and I think that neither could he have supported that charge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Mr. Fortsakis. Is there a colleague on the third request asking for the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u170	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u171	Here you go, Mr. Panayotare.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr President. I am speaking on behalf of the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group, so that those who see it from the Parliament's channel can be informed in another way. The third case concerns the complaint by a Greek citizen against the Members who voted for the memorandum. At the moment, there are seventy-two Members in the Greek Parliament, so this is a matter for the seventy-two specific Members. In the committee, all parties, except Golden Dawn, voted not to lift immunity for this crime. We don't know, we're not judges. The Court of Justice is responsible, and these should be decided, and not the House. It turns out that the only antimonetary power that exists is that of the Golden Dawn, which wants to move on and any other lawsuit is made by a citizen or by citizens for all those who voted for the Memorandum. You show that within the Greek Parliament you no longer want, because in your overwhelming majority everyone has voted for a memorandum, but even some people who have not voted for it for some reason did not vote for it and we know why. Finally, for Greek citizens to listen, the Golden Dawn remains the only antimony force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u173	I would like to inform you at this point that on Friday 10-3-2017 there was a distribution of the files of Members of Parliament who include the vote, with an attached roll-call list of seventy-two active Members. Votes have been distributed at our meeting, without the attached list of names, so as to facilitate the voting process and, of course, the counting of votes. Ladies and gentlemen, the roll-call vote will take place here. A list has been drawn up with the names of colleagues for whom the waiver of immunity is sought. Every colleague will vote next to the Members' names on whom the waiver of immunity is sought. The person voting for the waiver of immunity takes note of his preference next to the Member's name and to the column 'NAI', that is to say, 'NAI' to the prosecutor's request, which calls for the waiver of immunity. The vote against the waiver of immunity takes place next to the name of the Member and in the 'OHIM' column respectively. The voter will take note of it in the respective ballot column. Every Member of Parliament will be named, his constituency and the parliamentary group to which he belongs and will sign it, because the vote is rolled out in accordance with Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure. Then, with the word of his name on the list of colleagues, each Member will hand over his vote to colleagues Georgios Psychogios from SYRIZA and Mr Apostolos Vesropoulos from New Democracy, who will initial and announce that the MP has voted. After the end of the vote there will be a counting of the votes by the Members I mentioned, as will be the result of the ballots, which will be recorded together with the voting protocol in the Minutes of today's sitting. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u174	So the House unanimously agreed. I would like to inform you that letters or fax numbers have been sent to the Bureau in accordance with Rule 70A of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, in which they give their vote. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u175	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u176	Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament are invited on the list. Anastasia Garas by SYRIZA and Vasiliou Yoyakas from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u177	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u178	What do you want, Mr. Pappa? Why are you shouting? Where are you? Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u179	Mr President, look to the right - left.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u180	I'm not giving you the floor. Nothing is recorded. You got up and started shouting and speaking. What do you want? You want to talk about something? For what?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u181	We do not agree with the procedure. The ‘speakingly’ to erase it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u182	I have given Mr Panagiotaros the floor from your parliamentary group and he has been placed for this specific waiver of immunity. You don't have the floor. We started the voting process.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u183	Mr President, the floor. Are you selling crazy?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u184	What do you want, Mr. Pappa? What are you yelling at? Where are you? Please, I'm not giving you the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u185	We don't agree. Where did you find the "speaking"?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u186	I'm not giving you the floor. Nothing is recorded. You got up and started yelling and talking!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u187	Mr President, look to the right - left. Do your job well!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u188	What do you want? You want to talk about something?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u189	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u190	For what? I have given the floor to Mr Panayotarou in respect of your parliamentary group and has been placed for this specific waiver of immunity.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u191	Listen, on a point of order...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u192	You don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u193	We don't agree. The ‘speakingly’ to erase it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u194	Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u195	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the educational programme of the "Capitalist" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, thirty two students and students and two teachers from the 1st High School of Portugal. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u196	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letters sent to the Bureau by colleagues under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure will be recorded in the Minutes. [[The letters referred to above are entered in the Minutes and are as follows:]] CHANGES SEL [[TAKE THE SEL 164-167]] CHANGES SEL
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u197	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned, and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u198	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of a roll-call vote on the request for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament. A total of 217 Members voted. On the case of Mr Socrates Vardakis: In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 78 Members voted. They voted against the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NOV'. Vote "PARTS" 1 Member. Vote 'WHITE' 1 Member. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore rejected. [[The protocol and the roll-calls of the roll-call vote shall be recorded in the Minutes and shall be as follows:]] On the case of Mr Theodoros Fortsakis: In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 24 Members voted. Against the abolition of immunity, i.e. 'NO', they voted 190 Members. They voted for 2 MPs. Vote 'WHITE' 1 Member. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore rejected. In the case of the seventy-two (72) Members of Parliament in active employment, and in particular Members of Parliament. Ioannis Tsarioras, Athanasios Charalambos, Anastasiadis Savvas, Andrianos Ioannis, Antonios Maria, Arabatzi Fotinis, Asomakopoulou Anna - Michel, Aygeiadis Eleftherios, Varvisios Miltiadis, Vesiropoulos Apostolos, Vlachos Mavroudi (Macki), Vultsi Sofias, Vroutsis Ioannis, Georgiou Georgiou, Georgiotis Spiridonas - Adonou, Yakoumatis Gerasimou, Konstantinos, Athanastou, Athanassiou, Kstantinos Kosmanos, Kostantinos Kosandou, Kostantinos Kostou, Kostantinos Kosanisandou, Kosanisandou, Kokonosilios Kokonosiliou, Kokonos Kokonosiliou, Kokonos Kokonosiliou, Kokonos Kokonos, Kokonosiliou, Kokonosilios Kokouniou, Kokonosilios Kokononis, Kokononis, Kokonos Kokonosilios, Kokonosilios, Kokonosiliou, Kokonosilios Kokonosiliou, Kokoonos Kokononis, Kokostanis, Kokoonos, Kokoonos Kokoonos Kokoonos Kokoonos Kokoonos Kokonos, Kokonoonos, Kokoonos Kosiliou, Kosiliou, Kokonoou, Kokonoou, Kokoon, Kosiliou, Kokostanis, Kostanis, Kokostanstanis, Konostanstanstanstanstanstanstanstanstanstanstanstanstanstanstanis, Kokonos, Kos, Kokonoon, Kokonos, Kokonoon, Kokonoon, Kos Kos Kos Kos, Kokonoon, Kos, Kos, Kosilios Kosilios Kos In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 15 Members voted. Against the abolition of immunity, i.e. 'NO', they voted 201 MPs. 'PARON' voted no one. Vote 'WHITE' 1 MEP, in accordance with the following roll-call vote. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore rejected. CHANGES SEL. [[TO OBTAIN PROTOCOL AND GUIDELINES SEL 171 A]] CHANGES SEL
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u199	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers for Foreign Affairs, Home Affairs, Economic and Development, Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, National Defence, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economics, Health, Administrative Reconstruction, Culture and Sport, Environment and Energy, Infrastructure and Transport, Migration Policy, Maritime and Immigration Policy, Rural Development and Food, Tourism, Deputy Ministers for Foreign Affairs, Home Affairs, Economy and Development, National Defence, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Health, Energy, Rural Development and Food, as well as the Excellency and Cooperation of the European Union, on the one hand, 'Security and Partnership', on the other hand, on the other hand, 'Science and Development', on the other hand, 'Science and Development', on the other hand, as well as well as well as the European Union'. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-16-S1-commons.u200	With the consent of the House at 13.50 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday 17 March 2017, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: a) the topical and urgent debate and b) the debate on Question No 10/14-2-2017.
