ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS We begin with the second with number 190/30-10-2017, a topical question by the Deputy Dramas of the New Democracy. Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights on the subject: “The operation of the general detention store Nikiforos Dramas”. Mr. Cryazides, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, the problems of the country's penitentiary system are many, most importantly the over-concentration of the prisoners. This issue, although much has been discussed in the House, is treated distortably by the official state, which is taking measures of a paralysed and inappropriate nature that result in the premature and inaccurate release of offenders even of those who have been imprisoned for felony acts. Unfortunately, this is not the case despite the fact that there are prepared infrastructures that can provide a solution, even partially, to the problem. And I am thinking of the functioning of Nikiforos prisons, an issue that has dealt with parliamentary control several times and in 2015 and 2016. But also in the relevant Special Standing Committee on the Penitentiary and Other Structures for Prison Inmates, there has been a discussion on the whole issue. However, despite the promises and assurances of your predecessor, no progress has been made in starting up, although the facilities concerned have been completed, as I myself have seen in an autopsy I have recently carried out. In view of the above and taking into account the two-year public assurances of the former Minister of Justice on the immediate operation of at least one wing, but also the Act of Ministerial Council on the recruitment of six hundred and thirty-three people in the detention stores in the country for the year 2018, you ask, Minister: Why have the Nikiforos prisons not worked so far? When will they finally be fully operational? Is there any associated programming on behalf of your ministry?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u3	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, I would like to tell you first of all that this story of Nikiforos prisons starts from the far year 2002. This is one of the chronic problems that this government has had to solve and solve. In fact, this answer could be the shortest response to parliamentary time, because I would like to tell you that on 30 October...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u5	If you tell me it'll work...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u6	Could you not interrupt me?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u7	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u8	On 30 October I signed the President-in-Office's Decree, which was forwarded to the President of the Republic, with which this complex is now being recorded as a state structure, as a detention store. Because until now, Mr Colleague, this has not been done, and so it has been impossible for this project to be subject to the planning of the Ministry of Justice. You are aware of the enormous political responsibilities which exist in the previous governments for what I am saying to you. It was a very good thing that Mr. Paraskevi was telling you when he answered you, because immediately then the procedures and signature of the Presidential Decree and the creation of infrastructure in this detention shop began. I would therefore like to tell you that the process of signing the Presidential Decree began in 2016 and in a year's time has been completed. I hope it will be signed by the President of the Republic in the next few days, because he has already been transmitted by the Ministry of Justice and published in the Government's Official Journal. However, what I would like to stress in my prototype is this: for us it cannot be cells and bars alone. I am not hiding from you that I am surprised to find a document from the previous Minister, the previous government, signed by the Ministry's General Manager on his mandate, which was appointed by your government minister that it is neither necessary nor necessary for the government's priorities to operate in the prisons of Nikiforos Dramas second opportunity school, visiting space and, of course, teleconferencing space, etc. We cannot talk, Mr Colleague, about a modern penitentiary system, about a modern prison and just mention cells and bars. If we want to be equivalent, not only to the international prisoners, but also to the needs that exist today because of the deadlocks that have fed Greek society the extreme penal system that has existed for decades in the country, we will have to implement all positive action. By misusing the time of my first talk, I would like to say that I immediately instructed the CBYP to take care of these creation sites in prison, that is, the area of family communication, the area of children's visiting and teleconferencing space. I am speaking in the Minutes, Mr President, and the document of the previous Minister for Justice, Samaras, and of our own, just to show that for us prisons, which will only be confined to detention, they are obsolete, they give absolutely nothing and, on the contrary, I would say that they bring the opposite results from what a modern society wants in the field of anti-crime policy. Mr President, I would like to return to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Cryazides, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u10	Minister, I have not received a reply on the operation of the prisons, and I mean the timetable you have set as a ministry. I would like to point out that, unfortunately, during the new organization of your Ministry, you have forgotten about Nikiforos prisons. The Council of State points out that. And not in one month have you had to issue a new presidential decree in order to reach the President of the Republic for signature. What you are saying, of course, is very easy with government policies, in other words, that you have done twice, with two laws, to release a bunch of criminals, and indeed, as I mentioned in my first speech, with serious criminal offences. Of course, the fact that you have been late three years and remembered recently that there is a detention store in Nikiforos, that is encouraging as far as we are concerned. However, according to my reply in 2015, the project had reached 92% and three years now you were unable to finish 8%. On the previous government of the New Democracy and with Prime Minister Samaras, Mr Athanasios had intervened where any project was stopped, the funds were actually guaranteed and the project was secured and carried out, Minister. Three years, you didn't move on. You have to pay from July up there. I mention this to see how this project is progressing. So it's all in your choices. And with regard to the particular focus you have focused on so that they are indeed the detention stores and a reintegration into the society of these fellow citizens, I read the following: ‘However, it appears that the necessary specific training and professional rehabilitation building has not been constructed from the outset’. There was, Minister. You didn't move on. I don't know why. And if this is invoked in order to avoid the completion of the prison work, this is your issue. And your predecessor's reply that the project is currently being financed - at the beginning of 2015 - from the appropriations available under the Public Revenue Programme, I would mention the following: 'However, if the abovementioned work is accelerated, we are talking about water supply - 'extra credits will be required in 2015 from public expenditure, which so far has not been guaranteed'. You confess it. Your predecessor confesss. I expect an answer, in any case, constructively, Mr Minister, today because, in fact, in your Ministry's report, which we will be discussing tomorrow, please report on the need for decongestion. You also confess to this in your own report, as well as in the report that we have taken on tomorrow's debate from the National Committee on Human Rights, where the element of the decommissioning of prisons is currently in place. So there are possibilities to meet these needs. You guys don't go any further. Unless you're thinking of making a third law and unleashing them all so that there's no multitude and no such problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u11	Thank you. Mr Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, I was amazed at the abundance of my fellow Member, because I tried in a thorough manner and also by tabling documents, to make it clear to him and to this House what the situation we have received is. So I want to tell you, first of all, that we have not forgotten anything in the organization at all. On the contrary, we have speeded up the process of signing the Presidential Decree, because without the signature of the Presidential Decree, Mr Colleague, it cannot be placed under the institution of the Ministry of Justice any building, which will be retrospectively called a detention store. Well, let's get to know each other.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u13	Three years of work, Minister. I'll testify for you if you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u14	The main thing is to understand what each other says and don't interrupt, because you're doing it systemically. I heard you say things...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u15	Please do not interrupt, Mr Kyriazidis, because this is not the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u16	So I explain what the procedure is, and I explain that in one year's time, we have speeded up all those procedures for signing the Presidential Decree, Mr Colleague, which has been out of order since 2002. So understand that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u17	Three years you've been government...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u18	With regard to the second point you said, something about the payments, I tell you that the last money warrant for prisons has been paid on 2-8-17. But I told you again and you don't want to hear it. What Mr Paradoxopoulos said to you is absolutely accurate. He had spoken of 90% of the completion of the project. What work, though? The one that was scheduled by the previous governments that was, as I told you, cells and bars? The documents I have presented to you show that the necessary steps to operate a modern prison, a modern detention store, had not been taken. The necessary projects were never scheduled in a first or second year and by the governments of the New Democracy. When did we put them to be executed and to be completed? Last November. So, Mr Colleagues, these are the very important things for a detention shop to function effectively and to be a detention shop where there is a substantial penitentiary and not a college. The second thing I wanted to say to you is this: from this very moment on, the government, in addition to the decongestive laws it had put forward and voted against - and recently, on my own initiative, we voted to extend these provisions, with limitations - had, of course, made it possible to improve conditions and increase the number of prisoners' seats. I would like to tell you, for a year now, that the positions of detainees in Chania increased by a hundred and twenty years ago, another hundred and twenty seats were held in Nigrita, eighty-five positions increased for the programme of rehabilitation of detainees in Thessaloniki and, of course, the thirty positions of women's rural prisons, which the government has opened for the first time. So do not tell us that nothing has been done on the question of increasing the status of detainees. It has been done a huge job and in this will help Nikiforos booking store as soon as the procedures are completed and it will work immediately. As I said, on 30 October I signed the Presidential Decree and forwarded it to the President of the Republic. I hope, therefore, that in the next few days - because we have been talking for so long, Mr Colleagues - we are talking about publishing on the paper of the Official Journal, so that the 'Cypriot S.A.', the state-owned company for public buildings, can take over and launch further work so that this store can actually be booked. Finally, I would like to say to you this: you know very well what the restrictions on the recruitment of civil servants and civil servants are. The Government has an ongoing AACC contest, which you quite rightly said, Mr. colleague, that in 2018 there will be recruitment of staff and that they will better serve the existing detention shops, but will be served with the necessary staff and the particular detention store for which you are asking me. But today we have 2017. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled for 2018. We will be ready and within 2018 the necessary locations will be made. So we have two serious issues ahead of us. The one that, unfortunately, previous governments had left aside and showed no interest in...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u19	Don't repeat it! Well done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, will this situation continue? This is the third time that I've been interrupted. Can he come up a little?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u21	Hey, okay. It says too much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u22	You're welcome, Mr. Cryazides.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u23	Don't repeat it. I'm a good-for-nothing man.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u24	Oh, that's not how it works!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u25	Excuse me, Minister. Mr. Kyriazidis, the procedure does not provide for dialogue. They are addressed to the Bureau, both sides, and so we are having a debate, otherwise we are having a television conversation here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u26	I reply to you, Mr Kyriazidis, what are the objectives that exist and will be implemented in the next period of time to run this detention shop? The first is, therefore, to implement the projects which I mentioned to you, so that they can be booked and do not have concretes, bars and cells alone, and the second is to complete the process through the AACC, which we started, our Government, in order to make the necessary recruitments. Can you imagine a booking store, which will not work with the structures that I mentioned or with no staff? It can't be done! So from the very beginning these have been launched and implemented. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] The last thing I wanted to say to you - and I conclude - is this, Mr President. The paternity of decongestion laws does not have the SYRIZA Government, Mr. Kyriazides. The New Democracy government has it and was right to take these measures. Despite the fact that some decongestive laws as implemented by previous governments were also retreated into illegal acts after their release. You were taking these measures correctly, because the situation in prisons had reached a limit point when it comes to overpopulation. We received a situation in which the country had been multi-checked by international organisations and fines had been imposed. We therefore consider it best, instead of paying fines following actions and appeals by prisoners and making the country internationally resilient, in the common sense, of using this money to make better use of the penitentiary system. I think that, with the reform that will be carried out with regard to both the Penal Code and the Criminal Code, there will be an election of the penalties imposed by the courts so that Parliament does not need to legislate and every government recommend decongested laws and intervene in a way which is not the best in the judgements of the courts. I would therefore like to say to you, Mr President, that these efforts are currently under way and I believe that the delays and uncertainties of previous years are corrected in a constructive way and in the interests of justice in general, but also of those of our fellow people who have been subject to a serious or not crime and who have been imprisoned in prisons. It is a task vis-à-vis society, it is a duty of the country to the international community, and on these issues the government remains firm and irresistible. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u27	At this point, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a statement to this House. The Ministers of Health, Finance, Administrative Reconstruction, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights and the Deputy Ministers of Finance and Health submitted on 6 November 2017 a draft law: “The harmonisation of Greek law by the European Parliament and Council Directive 2003/88/EC of 4 November 2003 on certain aspects of the organisation of working time” concerning the organisation of the working time of doctors and dentists of the ESS. Settings of ESS physicians and other provisions’. The above draft law has been classified by the Government as urgent. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. We are continuing the debate on topical and urgent questions. The Secretary-General of the Government, Mr Kalogerou, informs Parliament of what timely questions will not be answered and for what specific reasons: The sixth question under number 163/30-10-2017, the first question of the Sereos MP, Mr Anastasios Megamomoustakas, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religion, on the subject: “Musics are being sought at the Serre Music School,” will not be discussed due to an impediment by the MP. Also, the fourth under number 156/25-10-2017 topical question by MP I of the Thessaloniki Association of Centrals Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The functioning of the Greek Open University (EPC)" will not be discussed due to an impediment by the MP. In addition, the fifth question under number 160/27-10-2017, first question by the Member of the Hellenic Parliament, Mr Konstantinos Katsikis, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Reduced cost of students in public transport", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the MP. Furthermore, the third, with number 164/30-10-2017, timely question of the first cycle of the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odyssey Constantinople to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Sufficient developments regarding the sale of EUCI "The National", will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister of Finance, Euklidis Tsakalotou abroad. Also, the third, with number 193/30-10-2017, topical question by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Reimbursement of late public debts to private individuals", will not be discussed due to the absence of the Deputy Minister of Finance Mr. George Huliarakis in Brussels. In addition, the sixth question, under number 106/20-10-2017, of MP II of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "About measures in favour of the small savers, who lost their money with the "haircut" of the debt in 2012, will not be discussed due to the absence of the Deputy Minister of Finance, George Huliarakis, in Brussels. Furthermore, the seventh question, number 101/17-10-2017, on the subject of the second question by MP II of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotarou to the Minister for Health, on the subject: 'Ragda increase of measles in the country', will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister responsible. Finally, the second question under number 191/30-10-2017 of the First Cycle of the Member of the New Republic of Heraklion, Aughaki to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Explosive" the clearing of the outstanding debts of the EEAS, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paul Pavlakis, on account of a workload. And now we move to the fourth with number 211/31-10-2017, a topical question from the F Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Lambroulis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The Institute for Pharmaceutical Research and Technology (IFET)". The question will be answered by the Minister of Health, Mr. Xanthos. Here, Mr Lambroulis, you have the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President. The question is indeed about the Institute for Pharmaceutical Research and Technology. Its main activity is the import and trafficking of medicinal products, in cooperation with and at the direction of the National Medicines Agency. It concerns medicines, medicines, the movement of which is either not of commercial interest to pharmaceutical companies or medicines of rare diseases which do not appear on the Greek market. In other words, it is irreplaceable or expensive medicines, but it is necessary for patients. The question, however, is that while the possibilities of IFET could be exploited, this is not the case, for example, in the field of the production of medicines, where it could produce large quantities of several preparations, as well as in the field of research, since either research laboratories are not working or operating or modern technology remains stored in the premises of IFET. The main reason for this, as they also stressed in the visit to IFET by the workers, is the lack of staff, the secondment of IFET. At the moment, forty - two people work, that is, forty - two workers, at the IFET, when the organic positions are a hundred thirteen. Let us note that recruitment has taken place since 2007 and, of course, it is still pending, from what the workers themselves say and, as the question says, the completion of ten jobs, as far as we know, is concerned. Of course, it has not been implemented so far. At the same time, workers, i.e. the existing capacity of IFET, are subject to a number of problems, such as cutting off, for example, by applying the single wage, 25% of their income, except for the gifts that have been abolished. IFET workers are not entitled to any other facility for their maternity, i.e. the regulations in force in the private and public sectors. Also, the Malagoula workers, the sterilisation plant in Magulas - five workers are there - do not receive the unhealthy allowance due to the integration into the single wage and are exposed to radiation. We must note and transfer the anxiety and uncertainty, in the face of the continuing deterioration in the functioning of IFET and in the face of the more general developments, of the workers in the organisation for the future, both in terms of the functioning of IFET and of the workers themselves. Mr President, the questions to the Minister concern the government's intentions, the actions it will take in order to make full use of the possibilities of IFET, while covering the empty organic positions, and, secondly, the actions it will take to provide the unhealthy allowance for the workers in the laboratories and for the production of Magulas, and for the implementation of the rules on maternity, as I have already said, for the other workers in the private and public sectors. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u30	Dear colleague, the Institute for Pharmaceutical Research and Technology is indeed a very important link in the presence of the public in the field of medicine. It is a subsidiary of the EEA which, unfortunately, has been on a payroll in recent years. In fact, 2015 was at the limit of its viability, and these two years have become a very important effort to finance, accounting and close down of the past. So the issue of the sustainability of this very important vehicle, which, as you said, intervenes as a quasi-state store and meets the needs of the domestic market in medicines, usually rare orphans, for which there is no commercial interest. Imagine importing around seven hundred different classes of medicines each year, 45% of which have a movement of up to fifty boxes a year. This means that they are directed at fewer groups that have rare illnesses and indeed, without such intervention, it would be impossible to obtain their medicines. He's got a growing turnover. This turnover was 37 million in 2015, reached 50 million in 2016 and this year it will spend 60 million euros. There is a great effort to cover patients with rare diseases who really need treatments that are salvages for their lives, such as about seventy - eighty patients who have a cystic fibrosis and take the new medicine, Orkambi, which has a cost of EUR 14 million per year. I therefore believe that the presence of this body is really crucial. It also has a small production activity that I agree one could see a more upgraded development and productive perspective. In addition to the methadone needed by OKANA, it produces three very rare and special medications. Produces acetazolamide, produces D- penicillamine and produces hydrocortisone, fully covering the needs of the domestic market. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Indeed, the Institute for Pharmaceutical Research and Technology is subordinated. So what we have started is the following. Through a special 12-month OAED employment programme, twenty-two more people will be recruited, in specialties that the IFET has asked us for. These people will take up duty early in 2018, according to the programming made through the OAED, because he does the call. And what we are looking for is in a next package of recruitments of permanent or permanent staff concerned with the health system, to commit some posts to have a permanent support and a permanent staffing. There's not a hundred thirteen empty organic positions. These were the period of operation of the National Pharmacopoeia plant, which was closed in 1989. We remember these very well. There are seventy-three organic positions today and there is an operational plan drawn up by the IFET Administration in 1721, which gives some development guidelines, which, obviously, require full coverage of all these positions. For example, there is an idea to develop the Bioequivalence Studies Laboratory, so that the domestic industry can do these studies for its generics and not be forced to pay abroad these costs and to have added value in the country. Also, there are ideas to upgrade the Kovalt sterilization plant that is in Magula and increase its capacity. Also, there is the idea of recycling materials related to pharmaceutical preparations, pharmaceutical boxes, which are withdrawn because they are running out of life. So I think there is a serious plan at the moment. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The financial viability of the company has been ensured. It's an anonymous company. Debts to suppliers of EUR 8 million have been settled in previous years. There is an effort made by both hospitals and EEAS to ensure a regularity in the payment of health debts to IFET SA. And I think this really gives us a good prospect for the role of this critical body.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u31	The floor is held by F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. Lambroulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. We are not going to oppose, frankly, the number of posts on the basis of the establishment plans is not a question of controversy. We, the things we have captured in the question - but I myself supported in my prototype - are elements which we were given during our visit to IFET. So we cannot question what you said, Minister, for the seventy-three. But again, I repeat that this is not the point of our confrontation, in our view. The question is that you have mentioned some activities planned to be implemented in the direction of further support - if you like - and to expand the functioning of IFET, in line with the possibilities it has. Of course, right now, four medicines are produced and the main thing is methadone. The workers are four. They also said that by means of staff support, we can produce much more formulas in large quantities. Of course, there are possibilities for IFET to carry out bioequivalences, statistical studies and electronic publications on medicines. We also believe that we also need support in this direction, that is to say, to grow - to say so - the withdrawal programme for late and useless medicines. In Magula - as I said before and said you - beyond the drug collection unit for recycling works, the sterilisation plant of pharmaceuticals and medical devices with radiation c, and there are only five workers. Isn't that where you need support for staff? In our opinion it needs to be. We remind you here that in Corinth, years ago, it operated a syringe production plant - in 2011 or 2012, if I remember correctly, it closed - which covered the needs of domestic demand, consumption around 50%. The rest of us introduced it. Now we're only importing. He closed this factory. If it worked, it could cover us. Of course, with proper equipment, but also the appropriate staffing to further grow and fully meet, if you like, the needs of domestic demand in syringes, for example. Mr President, I will be in the context of time. Let me say something. We, what we want to show, alongside the issue of IFET, is that as long as the medicine is a commodity and it is indeed capitalist property, both the workers - not only at the IFET, but also in the drug sector in general - and the patients will be the slaves of the mountains of the pharmaceutical industry. They will be the victims of the competitiveness and reciprocity of companies, since IFET - let us not forget - acts like a ECHO, of course, where the role of the capitalist is playing it by the state. Don't forget that. That is why, in our opinion, it is necessary today for workers - and we are calling on the workers and IFET, in general, on the pharmaceutical industry and the health sector, but also on the whole of the workers - to fight for a state agency for the importation, production, trafficking and research of a medicinal product within the framework of an exclusively state and free health system and the medicine. That is the only way we can ensure that both the workers, in this case at the IFET, but also at the drug scene and the patients, are fully assured. [[This is where the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] Mr President, give me ten seconds and I'll close. Minister, I would like you, on the basis of the questions we specifically put to you, to answer as far as the workers in Malagasy are concerned, the sterilisation unit for the unhealthy allowance, which I say, and also the facilitation - to say so - of maternity, which, as I have said, is entitled, to the public and private sectors, so that there can be - let me say the word 'equalisation'. I would therefore like answers to these questions too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u33	Minister, you have the floor again for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u34	I would like to start from the last one, because I failed to say it in my prototype. First of all, the grant of an unhealthy allowance to those five workers who are, clearly, working in unhealthy conditions is pending. There are other loose ends today in the health system. Physicians, for example, do not receive an unhealthy allowance. We have, in a way, collected these requests and these injustices, and we will try in the next few months, obviously in consultation with the financial staff and the General Accounting Office of the State, to deal with these kinds of loose ends, which really restore a sense of law, to people who do a lot of work. As far as labour rights are concerned, the assurance I have from the IFET administration is that there is a sectoral collective labour agreement in force up to 30-9-2018, which is well maintained and there is no discrimination. In any case, exactly what is envisaged in relation to maternity, maternity, etc., is being observed in the rest of the public and private sectors. Reductions, apparently took place in wages after the entry into the single wage. You realise that there could be no exception to a legal person governed by private law, which belongs to the wider public sector. I would like to say this: for us, this is an important public body. It can play a crucial role in what we call productive reconstruction in the country, with emphasis on the drug sector and, as I have said, help to increase production activity in domestic industry through bioequivalence studies, etc. Also - and this is very important - is a body which provides security to the health system and the citizens, patients, that regardless of company business plans it can intervene and be a body of the highest refuge, so that the state can ensure the drugs that citizens need - medicines rarely - and which may not have commercial interest and profit, as we have said before. This is very important, especially during this period, which you see there are frictions with certain pharmaceutical companies, which propose their own business plan and profitability, in order to pressure the Greek state and impose regulations, which are more in their own interest. Therefore, through the temporary import procedure, IFET intervenes with an EFF mandate and can really ensure that, even a citizen in the country who has documented a medicine, regardless of its price, can have access to it in the most modern and effective treatment. This is very critical to us. I shall therefore try, at the very next time and to the extent that we are allowed, on the basis of the well-known financial constraints, to support this issue with human and material resources.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Minister. We move to the eighth under number 138-23-10-2017 a second question from the Member of Parliament of the Republican Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'Reintegration of public debtors into the regulation of the hundred instalments'. The State Secretary for Finance will answer Mr. Papanatsiou. Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, for the last four months, we have asked you whether you intend to make a reinstatement arrangement in favour of the hundreds of doses which, for reasons of the economic situation, the lack of liquidity, the capital controls have been answered, because we consider and believe that such a choice would be in the public interest to collect public revenues, but also in the interest of the debtors themselves, because otherwise they are either economical - they go to the final exit - whether they are faced with the 'long-hand' of seizures and auctions. You have responded to us in part, that is, you have given us the information of those who joined us and those who have remained in the process, but you have not answered what they will do. You told us that, on the basis of Law No.4305/2014, I would remind you, Mr President, that it is the hundred-dollar law that Samara - Venizelos voted for, and for which Mr Tsipras said that we did not vote, because we were terrorized by the troika - ninety-seven thousand have joined and ninety-seven thousand have remained with Mr.4321/2015 - your own law - nine hundred two thousand and seventy-four thousand. So we need to find a solution for those who have not been able to meet their obligations and are now at risk, as I have told you, to endure economic activity. We are therefore waiting for your answer to this specific question and we are waiting with great interest for it and the hundreds of thousands who have joined the regulation and are now out. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u37	Thank you. The Foreign Minister, Mrs Papanatsiou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u38	In response to your question, I say that as a State Secretary for Finance, I should first of all like to quote the laws currently in force, which allow those who are due to settle their debts, so that they do not risk seizures of their mobile, immovable and bank accounts. I will therefore repeat L.4152/2013, where the possibility of a partial payment of dues from twelve to twenty-four equal monthly instalments was foreseen, while L.4174/2013 provided for the adjustment of all dues, due and not due, up to twenty-four monthly instalments again. Of course, I am well aware that the tools we have today certainly do not satisfy our citizens. Let us not forget, however, that the majority of the House voted for a number of laws, n.4336, 4337, 4346 of 2015, in order for the country to receive financial support from the European Stability Mechanism and to make financially sustainable and to lay the foundations for its economic development. In your question you are also referring to the reply you received to a previous question and application for documents relating to the hundred-dollar arrangements according to No.4305/2014, as mentioned before, and to No.4321/2015. So you say that from the information we have given you, it appears that it has already been made up of the hundred-dollar adjustments mentioned above, 50% of the initial entrants. Initially, according to the information given to you, ninety thousand six hundred debts - I repeat - that had originally joined Law No.4305/2014 were moved to Law No.4321/2015, as the law of our Government was much more favourable, even though we were very negatively criticised by the opposition at that time. Secondly, there is no distinction between those who have lost the regulations and those who have normally completed the original programme. The figures therefore relate to the number of unique VDUs, which are still within regulation. So your comment on the loss of regulation by 50% of the original citizens does not really respond. At the moment there are no details of this, as in your initial question you did not ask for it, but, if you wish, you can ask for them and talk about them. With regard to the thousands of small and medium-sized professionals, professionals and other public debtors mentioned in your original question, I should refer you to Law 4469/2017 for the out-of-court settlement mechanism. The objective of the mentioned law is to provide strong incentives and rescue viable businesses through the settlement of debts of natural persons with bankruptcy and legal persons who acquire income from business through an out-of-court negotiation procedure with all creditors. An application for admission to the proceedings may be submitted by any natural person with a bankruptcy capacity, an individual undertaking and any legal person who acquires income from a business activity having a tax residence in Greece, provided that on 31 December 2016 he had a debt to a financial institution or had arrears to the tax administration or to a social security institution or to another legal person governed by public law, including TAs, and that the total debt to be settled in one or more of the above categories or in combination with them exceeds EUR 20000 and fulfils specific eligibility criteria. Furthermore, an application for admission to the proceedings may also be submitted by free professionals with a level independent of public and insurance funds and natural persons with bankruptcy, individual enterprises and legal persons who acquire income from business activities with public and insurance liabilities up to 20 thousand euros. Mr President, since my time is over, I will not abuse my time, and I will supplement the second.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor again for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u40	Minister, I think it is not the time that you have not been allowed to reply to me, it is or that you do not want or are not allowed, because you have wasted your time to describe the laws, which are in force, the procedures, which have been followed and how one has been in line with the rules, since one has responded to the favourable regulations of the hundred instalments, can go to regulate his debts in twelve or twenty-four instalments. We didn't ask you that. We asked you very specifically. They could not respond to 100 doses. There are the capital controls, the lack of liquidity, the crisis in the market. We're gonna let them die? Are we going to attempt through auctions and seizures on their individual accounts, or are we going to give them a second chance? That's the question. I do not know if it satisfys you the fact that almost 50% has been committed. You tell me that within this number they are also the ones who have completed their obligations. You can tell us exactly the figures to see that the respondents are not 50%, they are 40% below. Very good. The number is too big anyway. It is particularly important for the country's economic activity, but also for one to be, it is very important for him and his life. You're referring us to the law on the extrajudicial compromise. The law on the extrajudicial compromise has put in place: the well-known platform, ombudsmen, exceptions, three years of profitability and other restrictions. And every three, and a little says your government for the hundred and twenty instalments. This procedure will not apply, Minister, to natural persons who are not in a professional capacity. You know very well that natural persons owe income tax, owe HISHA, owe inheritance taxes and do not accept inheritances, abandon them. So you have to do something. I would like to ask you, to the extent that you are not ready today - I understand that - to say something at least, that you will study it, that you will put it to the institutions, but your first answer is, or that you do not want to, or that they do not leave you. Tell what your political view is of us, too, to know and to know how the SYRIZA Government - ANEL is facing these suffering citizens. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u41	Before I give you the floor, Mr Papanatsiou, I would like to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Production and Trade is tabling its report, the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development: 'Agriculture, Modernisation of the Chamber of Commerce and other provisions'. Also, I have the honour to know to the House that our meeting is being followed by the lower Western theories, after being toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, an eleven-member delegation of the Ministry of Finance of the State of Brandenburg, Germany and the Greek Ministry of Finance. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I should like to welcome the delegation from the Ministry of Finance of Brandenburg. They're officially guests of our department for a weekend. Mr Koutsouko, following on from what I mentioned in my prototype, I continue my reference to Law 4469 to the extrajudicial mechanism. I think it gives many entrepreneurs a breath and is a very important means of supporting our country's healthy businesses. Let us see what is achieved with these arrangements: the possibility of deleting fines, surcharges and basic capital debt initially established debt. The freezing of fines, surcharges and late payment interest from the start of the contract and during that period. The granting of tax information, because contractually regulated debts are considered to be legally settled. The repayment arrangement up to a hundred monthly instalments, with a minimum monthly payment of 50 euros. The suspension of the measures, as you have indeed mentioned, individual and collective enforcement, as well as the taking of any insurance measures against the debtor, auctions, seizures, etc. Suspension of criminal prosecution. The granting of financing to the company in the event of an agreement of 60% of the participation of the creditors. POL 1105/17 has already been issued, concerning the inclusion of public debts in the non-judicial arrangement for natural persons with bankruptcy and legal persons who acquire income from an activity of more than EUR 20,000. It has also been issued by the Governor of the Independent Public Revenue Authority, 1124/17, to implement the law and the Ministerial Decision. Finally, it is a decision of our Ministry, which will involve free professionals who do not have bankruptcy for debts, regardless of the amount, to public and insurance funds, and natural persons with bankruptcy, individual companies and legal persons who acquire income from business, with public and insurance funds of up to EUR 20,000. With regard to the other public debtors, when the extra-judicial procedure is completed and the necessary conclusions are drawn, the aim of our Government and, in particular, of our Ministry, is to find the best way to meet the needs of taxpayers, in view of strengthening tax revenues and within the country's current budgetary situation. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, too. The first question under number 204/31-10-2017 of the Second Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Greek Parliament will be debated now under the number 204/31-10-2017 of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Georgiou Born to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The functional gaps in the Agrinio Music School". The Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs will answer Mr. Gavroglou. Here, Mr Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I will not go into pre-introduction, at least, the importance of musical schools for the additional reason that I am sure you have an absolute awareness and knowledge of the role of these schools in particular in the region. In Agrinio, a music school has been operating since 1997 in excellent, very good, I would say, for the country's data building facilities. It offers music education, as well as knowledge that will be useful for higher or higher education, but also for professional rehabilitation, within the suffocating context of the crisis in our country, which we all know. So this school is also a living factor present in the cultural life of our region. She has three hundred seventy-two students and eleven permanent teachers. He takes part in programs, draws up programs, works by students have been awarded abroad, and this school is in permanent contact and cooperation with corresponding foreign schools and such organizations. However, this function is undermined by a number of functional gaps in school, despite the fact - and I must say it and acknowledge it and stress it - that on 10 October eighteen teachers went, sixteen full-time and two not full-time, but - let us say this - part-time. Despite this fact, which I recognise and underline, it is still functionally voids and it is imperative that they be covered, because the children of specific qualifications, which I am referring to in my question, but also in a paper sent by school officials, do not take specific courses. It is a pity, Professor, after the attempt I have made, in the appointment of the eighteen professors, that this good initiative should be cancelled even partially. It is a pity that we do not complete it, so that we can fill the gaps in teaching hours and not leave these children behind with the special knowledge they need, with at least six special class officials and some day-olds being sent to cover the gaps. [[At the point, the end of the speaker's speaking time is ringing.]] With what I have said, I would like you to tell me what you intend to do, so that this malfunctioning, which in children's lives is something important and what you intend to do more generally to strengthen the role of these schools, whose role I have described and I will, if I may, do so in my second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u45	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u46	The question by Mr Baron, obviously, has a number of different dimensions, with which we do not only agree, but are also successful. The institution and the music schools, as well as the artistic schools, is an institution that needs to be upgraded. Upgrading also means strengthening the functioning of existing schools, but obviously also creating new schools, because there seems to be a great demand in our society for such schools. This year, we've already founded some new one. We are studying the establishment of even more time, but, of course, if they are not, as you rightly pointed out, our desire to function on the substance of these schools is also self-evident. I am pleased, first of all, that you have identified the appointment of additional teachers very recently. I also want it to be clear that the operational gaps that exist in schools are not predictable because of many emergencies in the meantime. We also have a huge difficulty, because the money for these recruitments does not come from the regular budget alone - the ones from the ordinary budget we have exhausted - but it is from the NSRF, from public investment, etc. So we must be very careful about the allocation, if you like, of staff and credit. I have here an answer that will have come to you, but I can submit it to the Minutes for what we have done. What I can tell you is that every week we hire additional people and some mature people, especially on such subjects as musical instruments. Because apart from the lessons that the school of Agrinio has no problem with, there are special lessons in the guitar, the violin, the piano, etc., and we are trying to fill out any gaps. This year, for the first time it is so early - this is not an argument, it is part of the problems we have - in relation to other years, we feel that we are taking a step. Unfortunately, I cannot be much more specific. But what I can tell you is that these gaps will be covered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is following from the bottom Western theories, after being toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organised and operated, a 20-year-old delegation from the German Supreme Court. We welcome you in the Greek Parliament. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Baroness, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u48	Minister, I have to say that I have been expecting a more specific answer, at least for the number of these six teachers, who are not huge, and if they are appointed, it will make the school essential, given what you have said before. Appointment must be made and I expect a concrete answer. Honestly, Minister, children are waiting for her, parents are waiting for her, all of us are waiting for her. Why do I have to tell you, Minister, that this school is a hive of artistic activity. I've been to school and I'm impressed. The other day, I was at an event. He's involved in too many events. School is a factor of artistic activity, beyond the narrow limits - which are not narrow, these limits are necessary in the present era - of the knowledge and education it offers. I am telling you, then, that I was the day before, at an event that was taking part in this school, where we awarded too much old artists of genuine cultural tradition, which, Minister, I must say, is in this vile atmosphere of crisis a fresh breeze, refreshing, but it is, if you like, an element of resistance to what is being observed in the region. Because I must confess - and we must say it - that even in institutions that come from far away, to institutions that are genuine, such as popular festivals, it tends to alter their character. We see a mutation of cultural activity. I say it with sadness. And where this front of resistance exists in this mutation we must strengthen it. Because, Minister, in my personal opinion, the crisis which engendered the country does not have a metaphysical interpretation has some specific causes. They are political, they are economic, they are social, they are cultural. If we do not diagnose these causes, if we do not have an absolute consciousness of these causes, we will not have a safe way out of the crisis. I'm telling you all this, to give you a picture. Perhaps - and this is not for good - many colleagues who are here in Athens have no direct contact - I mean daily contact, not that they have no contact - with the region. I'm not blaming anyone, but I'm trying to give you a live picture of this thing that's happening. In view of this, therefore, I would like to ask you for a more specific answer as far as possible. I know you have difficulties too. I know the difficulties, but these need to be overcome, and it seems to some people that this is a detail of what I mentioned in relation to artistic activity. From there, in my opinion, we will start to get out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u49	Please, Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u50	My colleague, I let you down, I think, because I tried to be honest. I tried to be honest, because what you're saying is a small number. I want you to multiply this number with all the needs of the country. We're very pitiful, because we want the people we send anywhere to play the role for which they're agitated. I want to read to you, so we don't stay with questions, the people we've hired for certain specialties. We have hired two people for violin, one for violin, one for violin, two for classical guitar, one for clarinet, one for traditional clarinet, one for European percussion, one for folklore, one for piano, one for piano, a second for piano and one for taboo. In any case, I want it to be clear that we did not leave this school complaining and well. We're not doing a favor. I agree with what you said about the cultural breath these schools give. I promise you that we will solve the problem, but also by taking into account the other problems, because of the extremely difficult budget we have in hiring substitutes. It is not a matter that concerns us in this particular school. As you can see, especially in the specialty classes of musical instruments, which are the hardest to manage, we have taken several steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Vice-President, "no money and no money is available for the generation of the destinies", Demosthenes, Olympics, if I am not mistaken. Unfortunately, that is the reality. It will now be discussed the first under number 203/31-10-2017 in the first cycle of the Attica MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Panagiotis (Panos) kouriakou to the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Statement of study centres". Mr. Darkdog, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we now have a new'region' in this broad area of private support training centres. It must be noted that it has actually arisen with the status of a study centre in our country, which employs both parents and workers in them. They denounce that these centres are addressed to primary schoolchildren and operate without an institutional framework. These centres are accessible to workers who wish their children to be helped in the study of school courses and at the same time to be creatively employed during their free hours. These study centres, according to the complaints of the Federation of Private Educational Officers of Greece to the EEA, operate either autonomously in their own buildings or as sections of legal secondary schools, but the license does not include such activities. Therefore, they do not pay contributions, do not provide specific qualifications for the selection of staff, and in respect of their employment relationships, Minister, these are recorded on a voluntary basis as ‘certified’. In addition, we must note that safety and hygiene requirements are not met, because no one controls. Even worse, some such centres undertake to transfer pupils from their schools to these premises - here, he says, "free transfer from school to study" - without anyone knowing whether drivers are certified if vehicles are controlled by a public authority, if they are safe. Recently, we discovered a study centre where on its website it is clearly stated that it is conducting illegally instruction, that it is taking on - as I said - the transport of students and that it is also working on school holidays. I will submit the copies of these ads and OELEK communications for the Minutes. Moreover, workers in these centres denounce, through their trade union body, that the majority of workers in these centres work without insurance. It should be stressed that their remuneration is extremely unequivocal to the work they offer. In view of the above, you ask, Minister, what are those legislative initiatives which the relevant Ministry intends to take to bring an end to the lawlessness and the middle-age labour regime and to obtain the centres for a specific institutional framework of operation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr. Darkness. You have raised a dimension of a very sinful one, I would say, and a dangerous initiative taken by certain caregivers. The study centers, for our society to understand, are a term that some schools use to create within primary schoolrooms for children. These schools are completely illegal. It's over, no asterisks! Here, then, we have licensed care centres that often have the courage to have outside the care labels that mention the operation of such centres. EEAP, the National Staff and Professional Guidance Certification Agency, which is a supervised body of the Ministry of Education, has raised this issue. Our information is that there has been no change in the care centres. We are considering and investigated in law every school to send to the Ministry, at the request of the Ministry, a responsible statement, with what this implies, that such centres do not work. This is certainly not pleasant in a society, asking an institution that you have authorized him to tell you that he is not illegal, but we will have to do so if they do not decide to eliminate this phenomenon. Moreover, what we want to tell parents is that there are many other ways these children are employed. There is the full-day school, there are the creative employment centres, the so-called CDIs. We therefore ask parents to embrace the public school, not to reproduce a culture in which education and paradigm have become part of the public education system, primary children not being pressed through these processes, to use what the public school offers them and, of course, to know that they are also involved in something that is illegal. As far as the question of workers is concerned, there is a more serious situation, as you can see, because children who want to work on something good, faith to work, while the law that we have passed, our government, made huge efforts and there has been a huge improvement in the meaning, compensation, etc. Because this is not part of the legal building, we have this, we have very serious security issues, and of course we also have the strengthening of a culture that children are so young and well placed in the care centre. We believe that all these reasons are unacceptable and we will be very unequivocal.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u55	Mr. Darkness, you have the floor again for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the need for some parents to care for their children, the need for those parents who work long hours a day to ensure their living and bring to their family what the family needs, has given some provocative people the opportunity to ignore legality and the cognitive process to actually abuse it. It's not hard to find, Minister. I'll testify to the Minutes. There are ads on the Internet. These people aren't hiding. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Panagiotis (Panos) Skouriakos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned copy of advertising, as well as the above-mentioned statements from OELE, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] But I think we need to take serious account of the fact that teachers who say that they are being caused by this way - leaving school, going to the other school, to the school, straight to the van and going home at night - an irreversible damage to teaching, psychological and moral to thousands of students. Furthermore, it is incomprehensible that five to twelve years of age with specific needs for play, family life, socialization, join a process of endless stay in order, which will eventually exhaust them and cause their disobedience to learning. So I fear that these parents, who are deprived of paying for these centers, may also harm children’s psychology and their prospects. We really expect initiatives from the Ministry as soon as possible. It's not hard to find these tutorials. Can I tell you something? Those schools that have a licence for a specific function, if they cover other activities, which are not lawful, should have the corresponding sanctions. Take them off? I don't know. There are ways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u57	Minister, you still have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u58	The sentence, as you know, is a removal of the license. But look, it's a little more complex how to locate, because, as you can see, you can't have a body of auditors, anything to "bunk" into a tutorial, because the kids there don't do lessons like others. They also learn, sometimes they play a little game, etc. The serious question, then, is how parents will protect children and ultimately the public school. Because if parents know that they're sending children somewhere that's not legal, they know that's where they're going, if you want, a initiation in the mentality of both children and parents to get used to this environment. It's the other one, you know, the school, and the other is the school. That's what I can tell you. It's the hardest stuff. We therefore need to do what we need to do and I told you the measures. And EPPA has gone ahead and we're going to be very strict. We can't get into one game to send auditors and police and prosecutors and one and the other, since it's illegal. But we ask parents and ask many caregivers - and that matters - who, while choosing, have not done so. Why haven't people done it? Because they respect what they do. You know, too, that historical schools have played a role that is not white - black. We therefore say that people in the area must protect this area, which has already suffered a very serious criticism, and, secondly, parents must protect the public school, for their own interests and especially for their children. Don't worry from the first grade of primary school about what children will do, because today our school has the various activities after school hours, etc. It is not all as well as we would like, but, in any case, it is free and as much as society embraces such institutions, the more the pressure is increasing to improve them. This must be the call for society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u59	We shall now proceed to the last question which will be discussed today. This is the fifth question (No. 205/31-10-2017) by MP Chania of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Antonio Balomenakis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, entitled "Illegal Contract at the Polytechnics of Crete". Please, Mr Balomannakis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u60	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you will certainly be aware that the Polytechnic of Crete has proceeded after a public open competition to conclude a contract with a company called "BELVEDERE", in order to transform a historical monument of the city of Chania into a hotel. You will certainly have to bear in mind that this decision has been dealt with in the form and in the decisions required by the convention, if any, but that is not very important. It is important that the type has been fulfilled, but society is reacting, and even too strongly. It is a sign of our city where there is historical, human presence of two and a half thousand years. It's the acropolis of ancient Kydonia. In any case, there are many aspects that show that this initiative has a character outside the logic of which the financial donation was given to obtain. I raised with my question the following side: The company that acquired the right to renovate is a company which was illegally involved in the tender. It has not denoted to a degree of "natural person", as said by Law 3310/2005, its partner. A partner presents another company based in Cyprus, of unknown other elements. There was therefore a public effort, of course, to confront the administration of the Polytechnic, which claimed that it was not necessary. We have proved that it is necessary, in the final analysis, to make a statement that these natural persons are present in the tender file. If that is the case, Minister, if there are the natural persons who have been lodged and, of course, this document is a certain date, I think that there is a possibility, as part of the supervision of your Ministry, for them to be requested and for them to be investigated whether the law has been complied with. That's the basic thing. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Because, as you know very well, and I shall end, Mr President, the provision of Law 3310 in Article 2 is intended to safeguard the public interest so that people who are not in competition do not enter the competitions who are going to move in full opacity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u61	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u62	Mr Balommenakis, I would like to thank you for the question, because by exploring the answer and how to produce a dossier in relation to this question, we have come before more questions than answers. So, first of all, I share 100% of your concerns, as I share what is behind the questions you have raised. There are issues that, I understand, have been dealt with by justice. I want to tell you what our role is, so that we can clarify something, which is probably the way we say it, but which, for reasons of order, we want all the evidence. Firstly, to say very quickly that utilisation cannot be with a change of use. There is the Constitution, you have made public statements completely valid on the unconstitutionality of such movements and we know that when this was given by the Equity Army, if I'm not mistaken, it was given for specific educational, academic and research use. Those words are not so ambiguous. Clearly, she's academic, she's research, she's educational. The change of use, how these new projects will be made, with competitions and companies which have various problems - as you have said - are, as I said, the subjects of the public prosecutor's office. We, even by the law of Mrs Diamantopoulou, which has been abolished, but which is the case with this article, see that it cannot change such use. Use is very clear and should remain as such. But there's something else. I have already asked for the full minutes of the Senate's meetings. We have - and I shall put it out - a record from two deans, from Professor Manuchouglou and Mr Tsourellioudis. They're both school jewelers. It's a catapult report. We have an answer that came to us on 2 November, the other day, from the dean - I will also present it - which does not answer much of what is in the record of the two Quaestors. Obviously, there are signs that need to be cleared up. The last thing we want is to involve ourselves in which one of them says that they are so many who voted 'in favour', so many who voted 'white' and others. Official minutes of the Senate have been requested and once the official minutes of the Senate come, we will appeal to the Legal Council of State and then, if necessary, to a public prosecutor. However, our universities can't do something that one side thinks is such a good thing for the university not to go along with broad consensus. If they do not proceed with broad consensus, it means that apart from whatever legal person there is something essential. They are institutions that can only proceed consensually. When they do not progress consensually, unfortunately, the Ministry should intervene. And the Ministry will intervene according to the original logic when these buildings were purchased from the university. However, when purchased, they were purchased under specific conditions, and they concern how they will be exploited in education and research.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u63	Mr Balomannakis, if you wish, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u64	Minister, I am really glad that you share these concerns. The truth is that these aspects which you have raised or which I raise and my question are very serious. And I think that the existence or non-consciousness is an element and that is true. But it goes further than that. It is legality which we are interested in, and you rightly said that the Ministry intends to intervene and act. I wanted to say that in accordance with Article 16 of the Constitution, as far as we know, supervision begins where the obligation of the supreme institution to observe the Constitution and the laws stops. It is clear, then, that here we have piles of violations. It is Article 109 of the Constitution which prohibits the conversion of a donation usage with a shared purpose. As regards the point of consensus you have said, I can assure you that my position at the outset was also consensual, to admit at least that it is possible to make a mistake. I absolutely believe that, in the first appeal, this convention will collapse and the participation in the competition of this particular company will be deemed to be non-legal, with possible consequences for those who have allowed it. This will all be done provided - I repeat - that it will prove that there are natural persons in the file. Then, first of all, it has a moral obligation for the polytechnics to make them public. I have the impression, Minister, that your Ministry also has the right to request that the substance of the law that is transparent be respected. We know - and we do not have to analyse it here - how important it is for the citizen to know in such large public contracts who is behind it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u65	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u66	Mr Balomannakis, I would like to comment on something you mentioned: self-residential property does not mean that there is no supervision of the state. It's a peculiar oversight, but there's surveillance. In democracy, there can be no arbitrary, perfection and misery. And there can be no arbitraryness, even if it is covered with majorities. I raised the issue of majorities, minority groups and consensus because, just as I read it, there is a serious problem with regard to the number of senators who took this decision, how much more so we have a very serious issue, which would like a much wider consensus. However, even if this much wider consensus existed, the issues of legality are controlled by the state. Legislation matters are not matters of majority or minority. So there is the problem here that we cannot put aside - with apologies for this rough expression - the documents that have been sent to us. That is why we have said that all the documents will be brought to us, and then we will move on, as we have to do. I'm ending up with this. The effort we are making at the Ministry of Education, as was recorded by the law that we passed in August, is to strengthen academic functions, strengthen academic rules, give universities the greatest independence so that the Ministry may not be involved in a bureaucraticised daily life in terms of universities and TEIs. Unfortunately, there are today in higher education institutions too many judicial disputes. I call - I have done so before - everyone throwing tons, because the institutions of democracy, as they are strengthened at universities and the TEI, can solve too many problems without there being any reason to appeal to the courts, which creates even greater tensions, so even greater problems in the daily lives of universities. We will look into this and take all measures to make sure that these buildings, whatever their conversion and whatever their future, are exclusively for the reasons why they have been purchased.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u67	The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-06-S1-commons.u68	With the consent of the House at 19.42' the sitting for the next Wednesday, 8 November 2017, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of the House: legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
