ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 8-11-2017, the JC's minutes of the JC's meetings of Wednesday, 8 November 2017 (meeting), with regard to the vote on the whole draft law: ‘Exercise of outdoor commercial activities, modernisation of the Chamber's legislation and other provisions’.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question in the House on Friday 10 November 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under No 241/6-11-2017, a topical question by MP II Athens, New Democracy, Anna - Michel Asmakopoulou, Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on "Measures to prevent and combat cyber attacks". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under No 242-16-11-2017, a topical question by MP Evros of the New Democracy, Anastasios Grassaki to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: “The new maritime Egnatia”, draws up development and progress lines for Evros, Samothraki and Thrace. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 214/3-11-2017 by Independent MEP B' Athens Mr. Theocharis (Harri) Theocharis to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Weakness of the European Investment Fund EUR 1 billion for the management of the Refugee". 3. Ms Miltiadis Varvitsiotis, Member of Parliament, with No 167/30-10-2017, is a topical question to the Minister for Immigration Policy, on the subject: "The preparation of hospitality structures for the winter season". 4. The question by No 149/24-10-2017 of the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP for the Athens I of Potamio Mr. Spyridonos Lykoudis to the Minister for Migration Policy on the subject: 'Increased refugee flows'. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Question No 36/2-10-2017 by Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The need to introduce a modern integrated legislative framework for prevention measures to prevent forest fires."
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We begin with the first question with the number 100/4-10-2017 question of the circle of petitions and questions by the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of Athens, New Democracy, Nikita Kaklamanis, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the subject: 'Double and Triple Pensions Number in the country'. The question will be answered by the Minister, Mr Anastasios Petropoulos. Please, Mr Kaklamani, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, Minister, because, unfortunately, in both Ethiopia and outside of Ethiopia, our colleagues - because they believe that they will attract popular sympathy and therefore also vote - say things that, in my view, do not really respond, I have asked this question and I thank the Minister for answering it. I won't say the reasoning. I will only go into the three questions, so that I can get time in my prototype, which may be of use to me in dentistry. I would therefore like you, Minister, to inform the House of the Greek people: firstly, how many of our fellow citizens receive two pensions, to which categories these fellow citizens belong, and if they have paid the corresponding double contributions. Secondly, how many of our fellow citizens take three pensions, to which categories they belong and if they have paid the corresponding triple contributions. Thirdly, if it is legal and constitutionally guaranteed the right to double and triple retirement, since, I repeat, the corresponding insurance contributions have been paid. I'm not talking about the last law, 3,000 euros. That's another thing. It is clear what I mean and why I have asked this question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr Vice President. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, Mr Kaklamani, I really remember, as you chaired, your reaction when an outrageous number was heard in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u7	Four hundred thousand.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u8	Yeah, that four hundred thousand get three pensions. That was said. You are right that you want these issues to be clarified and the Greek people to listen to the truth. It is a sensitive pension issue and we must all be united in the joint effort to improve the difficult situation in the social security system. No pension shall be paid other than price, which is known how they are paid without contributions. None. All payments shall be made in proportion to the contributions paid by the insured person. Of course, as our system had been structured with many different funds in different occupations, it was logical to give rise to the phenomenon of double pensions, sometimes even more, but this corresponded to the activity for which everyone paid. For example, a political engineer, who was at the CSMEDE, if he was a civil servant, was also insured on the Civilian Staff Fund. So, if he filled out the conditions, he would get two pensions. Often, he did not fulfil the conditions and instead of taking two, he took one and lost the contributions from the other fund. That was a general phenomenon. The consolidation of the rules solves this problem, namely losing the contributions, while they have been paid. It, however, retains the two pensions, where the conditions actually existed to fill in full time insurance to two institutions. In total, however, about 90% of all insured persons, i.e. two million forty thousand pensioners, receive a pension. 9.5% gets two pensions. These are about two hundred and fifty-three thousand pensioners, who, as I explained, are engineers, doctors, lawyers, who were simultaneously insured in public or engineers, who were both insured in the OSCE and the CSMEF, because they were also traded. But, within this category, there are those who were receiving a pension because they were entitled to the same pension as members of the family, but they were also entitled to a widow's pension. This is measured as two, whereas in reality, it is a transfer of rights by succession. It is not accurately reflected, as you rightly suggest in your question. We should know exactly the source of each of these cases. But the reality is quite different from the one some are trying to show, that there is a waste of pensions, which is too many. 0.5%, under half a percent, gets three pensions. It's ten thousand six hundred retired people who get three pensions. And in this case of the three pensions, it's the charges I've said. It can be a widow's pension, it can be a pension, because he was an engineer, a doctor, or a lawyer, and he can also be a pension, because he was also a public servant in the OAU. So the case of these two or three pensions is explained. Now, however, with L.4387, this phenomenon will disappear, because the insurance contribution is calculated on the income created and in the future, on the basis of remuneration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr President, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u10	Minister, thank you very much for clarifying these things. I have to say that even 0.5% is not with three pensions - quite legitimate - and 9.5% is with two pensions, perfectly legitimate. I assume, because you have not answered the opposite of the third question, that this is a constitutional right. In other words, we cannot say that we must now say to those who take three pensions, but have paid or to those who take two - 9.5% - and have paid to cut them off, without, in fact, saying that the contributions paid should be repaid. Because there is also the constitutional problem, which if there were a government that would have done so, I think it is 100% that it would have passed this on to the Council of State. Mr President, I think we need to be very careful in this Chamber, when, for the reasons I mentioned, we need to be popular with a people who really have a long time and have a problem - we are not talking about it - we are saying things which are not actually in force, which are not illegal, as it is left to be understood at times, just to get applause and at any rate, hopeful and at the harvest at the time of the elections, when they occur. So I'm glad for the answer. I hope that such things will not be heard again, at least in the Chamber, because outside of the hall everyone can say what they want and take responsibility for their words. But in this Chamber, if they hear and happen to preside, I will no longer remain silent. I shall speak and give the official answer I have received from the Minister. Where the political system is responsible, let us put it in the excerpt and carry it out, but where it is not responsible, people who are involved in the political system blaming it for things which are self-evident and completely legitimate and see them reproducible on electronic media - and not only - I think that goes very much, I think.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, what I would like to add to what you have just said is that, in the calculation of pensions, on the basis of the new rules, which incorporates this calculation, and the contributions paid to pensions which have not been paid, it will be shown that we are indeed moving completely in line with the constitutional requirements, according to which each pensioner must receive a pension corresponding to the proportion of the contributions paid. This corrects, to a certain extent, those cases where, in the past, according to the provisions applicable to each body - it was not a question of not applying the provisions properly - that is, if one had less than fifteen years of insurance, one would not get any of the contributions paid because they were never returned. According to the established case-law of our courts, if you could not receive a pension, your contributions were not refunded, in no case, and now, in the way it will be calculated, it will be incorporated into the pension, which will also be received by the contribution it has paid in the past, even for pensions that it had not received. I think it is correcting a poor application, a bad system, as it existed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u13	But not having forty years and telling you you weren't entitled to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u14	Obviously, there is no such issue and thank you very much for the good points you have made.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to announce two requests for permission. The first request concerns Mr. Harry Theocharis and is as follows: "Mr. President, I hereby inform you that on 13 and 14 November 2017 I will have to be absent because of my participation in a conference in Qatar. I therefore request permission for my justified absence from Parliament. With appreciation, Harry Theocharis, Independent MP II Athens." Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u16	The House therefore approved the requested permission. The second request concerns Mr Ioannis Plakkatakis and is as follows: "Mr. President, please give me a few days' leave to go abroad for personal reasons on the dates 10 to 13 November 2017. Ioannis Plackotakis, MP of Lassithi New Democracy.’ Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u17	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, we will be discussing the first question under No 240/6-11-2017 on the second question from the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on "Direct restoration of damage to port installations for the cruise in Kos". The State Secretary for Infrastructure and Transport will answer Mr Nikolaos Mavraganis. Here, Mr. Consola, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. I must also thank the Minister, who has shown reflexively and is here today, for this question, Mr President, Minister, is not of a character of opposition. On the contrary, I would also like to encourage government mechanisms, but above all you, in order to deal with a very serious issue, which concerns our region, the Dodecanese, but especially Kos, following the bad event of the earthquake, which created contractions there, not only in the economy, but also in society and in the operation of the island. Minister, you know that there were problems both in churches and in schools. But today's theme focuses mainly on the problem, which has been created since the earthquake in Kos port, the third largest tourist destination in the country, as contractions are created because of the malfunction of the port. I know that you have moved forward, Minister, to some interventions in order to tackle the immediate problems first. However, I would like to remind you that Kos is a destination for the cruise and, apart from the port, we have problems in the passenger station building and especially in the building used by cruise ships. The question, Minister, is that companies operating in the cruise area, seeing that the port is not being completed, are already in a process of cancellation of routes. Please feel that. I urge you today, from this Step forward, to respond with pity, because you will not respond to me, but to Kos's society, to the people who are active in tourism. They want a timeline. And people who are active on the cruise want to know that they will continue their programming for the arrivals of cruise ships in Kos or not. In addition, I would like to remind you that Kos has also been affected by immigration, which is an additional problem, which we need to see afterwards. I think that, in your own speech, as long as we take out the timetable of the procedure, it is published and made known through our debate, we will have a good development for the next season. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u20	Mr Papoutsis, thank you very much for the question. It's just like you said. Kos is an island that was seriously affected by the enslaved earthquake of July 21, 2017. We had to show reflexes and show them, in terms of what we could do directly, namely repairing the platform in the field, which served ferry and passenger shipping. On July 21, the earthquake occurred. On 30 July we commissioned the studies with the restricted trading system, precisely because Kos was declared - and so we had to do - in an emergency situation and we had to follow a rapid process. On August 13, 2017, before the 15th century, this part of the brook was handed over. But, as you quite rightly said, there is the other part, which deals with the cruise, as is that part of the customs building. All of this we have included in a general care, as we had to conduct studies. We have entrusted them with the restricted trading system so that we can do it quickly. You are quite right that there too we need to make a road race, just as we did for the central port, to close the entire infrastructure and create a sense of security in both the market and the citizens and our fellow people there, that life will flow smoothly. The assurance I have received from the Building Infrastructure, with the pressure we exert on them, is that the studies will be completed in February 2018. We are talking about the geotechnical study and the restoration study of the port. And the next month, in March to April 2018, we will have completed the studies on customs, to go to a contractor's facility, precisely in spring 2018, always by means of a rapid negotiated-entrustment procedure, so that we can run the process as quickly as possible. I believe that, with this timetable, the island will return to normality in 2018 and with the established contractor since spring 2018, our citizens, our fellow people in Kos, who have been tested a lot, will see the effort on their island every day.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Consola, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, your commitment here at the National Representation has been recorded. I consider it extremely important that you recognise the problem and, at the same time, I imagine that with your position, you have relieved self-government responsibility for restoring damage to the port as well as to port infrastructure. So I think it goes without saying that the studies have been carried out by the Ministry, so that they can be completed and, at the same time, you tell me that the port will be completed in the spring. So I want to remind you that the 2018 programming...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u23	The installation of the contractor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u24	I do not know, Minister, if the environmental impact assessments and the integration of these infrastructures are so long. Basically, with this location we expel the cruise from Kos again. Why if it's not completed in spring, what programming can be done? I would like to ask you to press on the mechanisms so that the study and construction can be completed. Let me tell you, Minister, that they cannot be blamed either on the municipality or on the district or on the entrepreneurs. On the one hand, the coastline must continue its normal approach and the cruise must find its pace. Because now there is no rhythm, Minister, and the people of tourism are in agony. Let me just say this to you and let me tell you about the Minutes. Yesterday's statement by the President of the Greek Shipowners Cruise, Mr. Conte, says that it is immediate to deal with the refugee in relation to the cruise, because the cruise will collapse on these islands, when you know very well what happens with the approach of ships to the islands of the North Aegean. I fear, however, that Kos will also evolve into an island which is not a cruise destination. Why hot spots, floating and refugee, with cruises are inconsistent. That's what Mr. Codes says. Please, I'm tabling this for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] So this is an additional incentive for you, at least to alleviate the issues relating to port infrastructure and to ask you in the spring for this process to be completed, because for us it is very important that there is no longer any divergence from what has happened in the previous period, but that there is convergence of all the forces in staying Kos unstoppable in its course and that it is the third tourist destination and in the years to come. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u26	I fully share your anxiety, Mr Papoutsis. As soon as possible, we will be pushing towards the completion of the studies as quickly as possible. I would like to assure you that the problem created by the, unfortunately, earthquake on 21 July was very great. There were issues of potential caves and cracks inside the sea, i.e. underneath the bases of the platforms. That is why studies are two-tier. They're geotechnical on the one hand, but construction on the other. So in geotechnical studies, we are basically using submarine systems, so that we can do the whole evaluation, so that we do not have any problems in the future. That creates the problem. We're running as fast as we can. We have been promised that, until January - February, studies will be made on the main issue that concerns us, namely the port cruise ships, geotechnical study and construction, so that we can install the contractor. The customs office will be ready for a month after the study. With regard to the first main step, however, which relates essentially to the arm, the study will be ready January to February 2018. We can't run it any further, because from there on, we'll force them not to do a job, and I'm afraid we'll find it in front of us. If, in other words, we tell them not to carry out a geotechnical study, we'll have a problem in construction afterwards. We'll have it on the island, you have it, we'll have it, we'll all have it. That is why, at least, I want the geotechnical study to be done so that we don't have any problems. I believe that if the contractor is installed in March 2018, he will do the necessary work. Do not forget that the other part of the port has been restored within a month. Let's see from the study what a timeline is for. I cannot say at the moment a timetable for work. I can say a timeline of studies. And I can't say a project schedule because I don't have a complete study in my hands. Let us see, then, what interventions are being proposed by the artists and experts who have dealt with this issue and I believe that, because we have run them too far and put them under pressure, acknowledging the enormous problem created by this entrepreneurial earthquake, they will respond to the timetables of this work themselves. I want to believe that we will be able to be ready for the great tourist season.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Minister. Subsequent to the second question by number 213/1-11-2017, the first-round question by the First Vice-President of the Parliament and the Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on "Incomplete, even after the delivery deadline, the School of Archangelos Rhodes". The State Secretary for Infrastructure and Transport will answer Mr Nikolaos Mavraganis. Here, Mr. Kremastein, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u28	Mr President, Minister, the reason for my question today is obvious. It is a story, which one could call as a painful one, without exaggeration, because it starts in 2010. Here are the relevant questions. In 2010 we had cancellation of the competition, in 2010 again a second cancellation of the competition, after the issue of the building infrastructures in 2012 and 2013, delayed again in 2013 and now, in 2017, as the President of the Municipal Union Mr. Argyros has informed me, they have completely abandoned the project and are not building the school. Meanwhile, about a thousand children are conspired to lesions and, of course, this abandonment means something has to be done. My proposal is that the Ministry should intervene and somehow force it on a monthly basis - I repeat it, if you want - an apology or a recording - as you want to say - of the project from now on, because according to the manufacturer's obligations, it should have delivered it in September and now function. So now that it should work, there are no people to go ahead, i.e. workers to go ahead with it. So you realise that something needs to be done and I really expect to hear how you intend to react on this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u30	Mr Vice-President, Mr Papoutsis, thank you for the question, because it is absolutely in the first part, as you said. In other words, since 2010, there has been a very long delay with re-examinations and re-examinations of the study process and we have finally arrived to have a study and tender of the project towards the end of 2014 and, ultimately, to sign the contract in the middle of 2015. Look what happened. The process began to run the project. At some point, the work is stopping. Why did he stop? Because the study that had been delayed too much, as you said, should be carried out and the project should be auctioned - about four five years since 2010 - was still deficient. What were the shortcomings? These shortcomings have two legs. In internal masonries, the scope of the masonry was not essentially predicted so that there would be sound insulation and thermonuclear insulation, which would be at the expense of the quality of the apprentices, the disciples, the apprentices and the community, which we all want our children to be in the best possible conditions. The second part was that it did not provide outside space. He had them down. He had no funds for the outdoors, for their formation. Yeah, but they'd have to work out somewhere, they'd have to entertain, they'd have to bury them somewhere. We didn't say we'd shut it down, hang up in a prison. Alas! So some interventions had to be made. It therefore proposed that the agency should take intervention in the first direction, firstly, to register and secure funds for the outdoors and their formation and, secondly, to extend the width of the masonry to a battery so that there is sound insulation and thermal insulation to our children. This, however, began at the end of 2016, until it was approved and passed through a recapitalising work table and approval by the legal department and the board of the CCT, broke through a process which was dialectically interlinked between the contractor, the services and the legal department for about ten months. It was approved, entered "GENERAL" and now the work will continue. This is why, of course, the contractor asked for an extension, we did not give him the entire extension he wanted, we reduced it for about forty days and the final delivery date of the work he has given us is March or April 2018.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kremastein, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u32	I am not questioning anything you have said, Mr Mavragani. But what I must tell you is that the local rulers - I come from there, from the Archangel - assure me that there are no works at the moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u33	Since when?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u34	From summer to end. The manufacturer, who asked me not to ask a question in the House, told me that he would be consistent. I believe him. But because everything you say in all constructions happens, it makes sense to have a distrust. My proposal, therefore, is that every month there should be an apology, a record - as you say - of what has happened in the month that has passed, because if we are suddenly waiting to get to June or September of next year, to say anything else, such as insulation, etc. - not from you, from the construction point of view - you realize we're going to the dilemma. So, again, I would be delighted to be assured that the Ministry will supervise the completion of the project every month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u36	That is the case, Mr Vice-President, Mr Papoutsis. Because this is a painful work, which has delayed too much on its first leg. The study carried out, as it did, while it was indeed delayed, was a deficit on the other side and did not predict what it should be anticipating, this work has been ill and that is why we have to run as far as we can. Your idea is correct and I will inform the CEO of the task so that it receives a monthly review of the work. You're right. It is what I said before, that the work for a period had been stopped, because exactly the agency said: 'Here you are doing is not right. First, you don't have any surroundings, where they're going to work out, pre-built, entertain children. Second, you don't have soundmones inside. What are you doing here?’ For a period of time, therefore, until the technical services have prepared the amending study, a recapitulative working table, the contractor's approval and all this on his way to the board, obviously the work had stopped for that time. It's like you call it. Works will start and suffocately pressurized on our part will lead the contractor to complete the work, as promised, in April 2018, so that our children at the Archangel of Rhodes are in a beautiful and newly built house, with good soundproofing and thermal insulation and decent surroundings. We all want for our children to be in decent facilities and in a quality upgraded living. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and running, twenty-five students and students and four educational attendants from the 14th Municipal School of Alimos and the 49th Municipal School of Athens. The House welcomes you guys. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Let me inform you that at the time you came, there is a parliamentary control procedure. Members, on matters of interest to them and on the course of these matters, ask the Minister responsible and the Minister answers them. This process is now being monitored. Ladies and gentlemen, the second question under number 216/3-11-2017, the second timely question from the Members of Parliament Drama of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Kefalidou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "The risk of the ending of the Museum and of the archaeological site of Delphi" will not be discussed, due to the impediment of the Member's question. Also, the Special Secretariat of the President of the Parliament has informed us that the following questions will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the relevant ministers: The third, with number 251/7-11-2017, topical question by the Member of Parliament, Achaias, the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the workers at the 'Europe' distribution agency, will not be discussed due to the misappropriated obligations of the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr.Achtsioglou. The third, with number 250/7-11-2017, top-stage question of the first cycle of MP IEK with the opening of their schools, will not be discussed, because the Deputy Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr.Urania Antonopoulou cannot be present, due to unsuccessful commitments. Finally, the first question under number 239/6-11-2017 of the New Democracy MP, Mr. Mavroudi Voridis, to the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, on the subject: "Guide to positions of Directors-General", will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, Mr. Olga Gerovasili, who is in an event of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK The only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "The harmonisation of Greek law with the European Directive 2003/88/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 November 2003 on certain aspects of the organization of working time" regarding the organization of the working time of doctors and dentists of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 November 2003. - I.D. Doctors' arrangements. and other provisions.’; The above draft law was characterised by the Government as an urgent one and the relevant Standing Committee on Social Affairs, acting by a majority, accepted its designation as an urgency, in accordance with Rule 110 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting of 7 November 2017 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, articles, amendments and all. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u39	The House therefore agreed. Mr Athanasios Papadopoulos has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate we held in the Standing Committee on Social Affairs, together with the hearing of bodies, was revealing. It proved that only two proposals were put forward for the humanization of the total hours of work and on-call of the doctors of the National Health System, which now reaches sixty-six hours a week for qualified doctors who do seven on-calls a month, while for the curators in the subordinated departments with three doctors and much worse, for those who have two doctors, it can reach all seventy-five hours. This is a very crucial issue, as the question of what we are doing in adapting to the Community directive, which helps, not only to regulate, as far as possible, the doctors' obligations in this respect, which are indeed conditions, many times, of the jungle, but to be able to count on the punishment of the country, which has been decided by the European Court of Justice if we do not comply. That's not a bit of a punishment. EUR 150 million, as a threat of payment for the country, is too much for the conditions we live in. The first sentence tabled and included in the draft law is from the Ministry of Health. The second proposal is the majority of the General Council of GENGE. The Federation President at the hearing stated that their proposal is: Fixed morning work, seven hours, five days and an active on-call for every doctor, qualified and qualified. Articles 1, 2 and 3 of the draft law lay down in detail all matters relating to the first part of the proposal. The regular hours of doctors and dentists of the ESS, including the auxiliary and doctors of the public primary health care units, the EAEC, the Papageorgiou, the "Oonessios", are seven hours from 08: 00 to 15: 00. The total working time, along with on-calls, will be gradually forty-eight hours a week. While for three years it provides for eight hours to be exceeded, up to sixty hours a week, but always with the doctor's free assent. The on-call organisation cannot be held in accordance with the proposal of the current majority of the OENGE. No hospital can cover, on the basis of this proposal, the emergency needs, which it accepts, even if the number of recruitments is double, planned by the government for the emergency departments of the clinics, units and laboratories. Parts need to be inspected, having a staffing of seven to eight doctors. Think a little of what potential is on the basis of reality, so that all on-call departments have eight doctors. On the contrary, the gradual implementation of the Community Directive 2003/88, on the basis of the 12-hour active on-call, 12-hour daily rest, 24-hour weekly rest of at least 24 hours without interruption, on-call and on-call and other forms of on-call, on-call, on-call, on-call, on-call, on-call hospitals and on-call facilities, allows hospitals and primary health care units to ensure gradually human conditions for doctors, organising their educational programmes and meeting hospitals' operational needs. On the basis of the Ministry of Health Directive, health regions, hospital administrations and doctors must cooperate, in order to organise their on-call programmes as best possible. The Ministry of Health has clarified that it has excluded rolling on duty-call programmes and the recruitment of doctors with blockages or only for on-call needs, as is done in several European countries who wanted to adapt to the European directive. Recruitment plans must be targeted and sufficient to enable them to be abolished within three years. The draft law establishes the compulsory participation of all doctors of the ESS, including the coordinators of hospital managers, the centre and university doctors, in the on-call programmes. The form of participation, of course, will be specified in the decision on specialisation, which the Minister of Health will do, taking account of their other tasks, especially for university doctors and their educational duties. I would remind you that at European level the awareness of this need for a higher weekly working limit took place in the 1990s, following a series of actions - the well-known assumptions: 'SIMAP' in Spain, 'Jinger' in Germany and many others, as well as actions by many Greek doctors - for this situation, which really neutralizes doctors and creates risks for their patients. There was also a lot of concerns about the health and safety conditions at work. Community directives were also adopted on this basis for a higher limit of weekly employment, such as Directive 1993/104/EU and Directive 2000/34/EU. The most complete thing is, of course, Directive 2003/88/EU, with which we want to harmonise ourselves. Of course, I would again remind you that the European Court of Justice on 23-12-2015 warned the Hellenic Republic of all these sentences, which we will be subject to if we do not adapt. Several European countries have fully adapted to the directive such as Denmark, the Netherlands, Sweden, Germany and Norway. Adjustment procedures are carried out in many other countries, with or without delay. Let us remind you that our country has sought to adapt since 1999. A.d.88/1999 and d.d.76/2005, which did not apply, was issued. We must ensure that hospitals are staffed for forty-eight hours a week. The average for the calculation is four months. And because things have been heard here, taking the on-call one month in the fifty-two hours and another month in the forty-four hours, I don't think it's ruining philosophy. Because they sounded pretty crazy, that one month could work for seventy hours and the other month to complete. We have arranged that annual leave and sickness permits are not counted, that there will, of course, be at least 12 hours' daily rest, that there will be break time, in the event of prolonged work, that there will be a compensatory period - off-take - immediately after on-call or within 14 days of the limitation or loss of weekly rest. I would like to remind you of some of the actions taken by the Ministry of Health, which are trying to create the conditions for effective harmonisation: Establishment of separate emergency departments and direct notice of five hundred staffing positions. And when we say 'direct', we mean that the proposal has been organised and the positions will be announced. A comprehensive recruitment plan of two thousand doctors for subsidized departments and health centers to contribute to the best possible organization of the on-call, along with the seven hundred sixty HSH doctors of the previous notice - many of whom have already been to hospitals and are expected - all four hundred doctors from old notices. With the continuation of the provision of subsidiary doctors, who do not fall, my dear colleague, Mr Lambroulis, to the provisions on flexible working relationships, as all the duties of subsidiary doctors are identical to those of the permanent doctors of the National Health System. All their duties! And they're listening. And they hear those who are preparing, supposed to make mobilizations today.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u41	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u42	Twenty-four-four hours of on-the-spot health centres, to be set up by decision of the Minister of Health, so that this programme can also help to improve the organisation of dealing with non-threatening life-threatening emergencies and emergencies. Participation in the newspaper of all and the coordinators of the First Zone. Establish a standard of invention per health region, hospital, primary care unit. Chapter II includes arrangements for the Crisis and Choice Councils of ERC doctors. The arrangements contribute to the better organisation of crises per HSY and to their acceleration. The boards set up shall be five members and their composition shall ensure the impartiality of the crisis. Apart from the commander, when it comes to recruitment in primary care units - those of the Ministry of Education - are made up of three doctors with the same degree of manager, on a draw, as the person assessed and one, who is the chairman of the Scientific Council, who also comes out of a draw. Of course, this composition is much preferable than that proposed by Mr Blass, so that the judges may be appointed by the Central Board of Health. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Your Honor. The selection criteria are transparent: Pre-service, clinical experience, scientific and educational work, as well as administrative capacity to judge managers, with transparent mobilisation. Each candidate will choose five positions and there will be the possibility for the first five to submit a structured interview with a clear moleculation. Here are some articles on the wages of doctors and dentists from the hospitals or health regions, which I think are in agreement with almost everyone, the payment of the flight allowance to doctors who make airlines, the regulation for medical staff at the Hospital of Karpathos, including the positions of the Health Center, the transfer of the organic positions of the National Centre for Prevention and Management of Sugar Diabetes, who have been transferred, in accordance with an improved proposal made by the Minister of Health and will testify to us. I would like to end by saying this: it is very important - and it proves that we are hearing - that the consultation we have been holding with operators is not a formal process. I think there has been exhaustive dialogue before and during the public consultation with the representatives of the domestic pharmaceutical industry, on the returns - clawback, rebate - of pharmaceutical companies. I think that the withdrawal of Article 14, which the Minister announced yesterday, proves exactly this: what we say about public consultation and dialogue with operators, about the fact that we hear proposals, is included in the overall position of the regulations we are doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Konstantinos Vlassis from the New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u44	Minister, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today I would like to start talking about this bill, but I really cannot be tempted to comment on topicality. And why am I saying that? Because just a week ago, the Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras, said to us that there is no lawlessness - 'where do we see it?' - that we can imagine it. It did not pass a few 24 hours and his former Minister, who with this law made thousands of prisoners out, went out and said that this was a law we didn't need. We expect it to be apologise to all these families, who have already been mourned by some who have come out with this law. And, of course, today we see Mr. Koufantina getting permission to leave prison. Listen to it first! You know what? Do you hear what the world says? Because you say you hear what the world says down. The ordinary people say the police are doing their job well, they're putting them in, and you're getting them out. I think there should be a convincing answer by the Prime Minister too. Of course, I should also like to comment on something that I heard yesterday in your parliamentary group. Mr. Tsipras said he was untreatedly optimistic and that the third evaluation would be closed. And it'll do well. However, he did not tell us how much foreigners are pushing - the bad guys before and good now - who said that the auctions should immediately proceed. Without auctions, no third assessment will be closed. What are you going to say about that? Currently: bill express. Fast track procedure. In the form of an emergency, you have brought in a bill which is well in line with Greek law a Community directive. However, the majority of the articles do not concern them. You brought it over night so we don't have time to study it. Legislation in handy and fragmented form. Can I tell you something else? You're not giving solutions. If you give solutions, I would say: 'Bravo, you have brought something urgent, but you also solve a chronic health problem.' The point is that, with the urgency of it, all you do is insult us - we put us aside - but the doctors first and foremost, of course, the Greek people, who come and face all these health problems. Entities, O.E.G., E.L.D., what do they say all these days? ‘Regulated bracelet’. ‘Approval bill’. "You bring it as thieves to the House." That's not what you cared about either. We don't use such phrases. We never did. You, as you remember very well, before 2015 you did it every day. What did he say? Five days before we were discussing other things, they told us that there was nothing you would bring us and two days later we heard other things. Fully unreliable! Your lies are daily, but we've learned to live with them. Number of unrelated articles. And that's right there is the core of the bill. Because clearly, the harmonisation of European law with Greek law cannot be avoided. We, as a European party, will do so. And in the past, however, we have shown that we have such a line. We have to pay today's inadequacies and inadequacies. There is nothing in the public consultation, 'OpenGov'. You brought the law without any discussion, under the procedure'spray, wipe, you're done'. And nothing else, but you're trying to put on some social pretexts that we don't see anywhere. Of course, the good-looking image of the Minister and the Deputy Minister does not need us to comment on it. People see it every day. He sees it in the tails set up in hospitals, in the delayed appointments, in the surgery that is not done because budgets in many hospitals have ended long ago. And, of course, doctors do what goes through their hands. But with what weapons? This image you want in health? Are you proud of her? I think that image offends us. From the official lips of the Deputy Minister, we hear 80% of doctors get them. Really, Mr. Polakis, in all the good sense, how are you going to see them in the eyes tomorrow? Do you really believe that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u45	I've answered, I think. Didn't you hear the answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u46	I heard her. The answer didn't cover me, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u47	That's your problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u48	But it doesn't mean anything that he didn't cover me. It did not cover fellow doctors who fight daily in hospitals. And until three years ago, you were giving this fight with them, and today you've gone to the opposite side of the sidewalk. Instead of asking for an apology, you have the nerve and you continue on the same game.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u49	So I'll answer you again. Repeat the mother of all learning.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u50	On the substance. The first six articles came for what? Because we want to avoid a fine which has fallen from the European Union and which concerned this harmonisation of the Community directive with Greek law. There is a judgment in 2015 on your Government. Of course, to remind you that in 2015, you were trying to resolve your own internal issues, because I remember that at that time Mrs Constantopoulos sat behind me, which, of course, I do not know what she is saying. All this time, you did not accelerate recruitment, although the New Democracy Government in the past three years had ensured by the 1:10 000 jobs that you did not use. You did not support primary health care, and of course, your mind was elsewhere. So the only thing you do now with the first six articles is to introduce the concept of opt-out, which as magically this morning has disappeared. The rest of the article is left, just like it was and the word opt- out has come out. Of course, the opt-out is not an obligation stemming from the directive. You're actually choosing it to avoid the fine. We understand that. But who guarantees us that the opt-out will end in three years from now, as you say? Who guarantees us that any flexible work or ways of working will cease to exist? You don't tell us about reforms, you don't talk about rationalisation of structures, do you not talk about how hospitals and especially hospitals in the province, which are even more subordinated and actually legislate for why? To legitimize an illegality. Can I tell you something? We have heard the POSPE and I am pleased that your rapporteur, Mr Papadopoulos, said that we will see how we can adapt university issues to this directive. But you know, this is where we talk and that's why we don't see anything. And to close the part of university studies - and I am pleased that there is a university in your parliamentary group - it must be made clear that each group must be treated in particular. As the universities have their research and teaching work and, of course, this must go hand in hand with the clinical practice - one has not said to work less, barely working more and I think that no one disputes this - and it must be recognized in writing and not just in words. The New Democracy is also interested in doctors' working hours and considers it particularly important and, of course, wants to restore their health and safety, as we are of course interested in the level of health services provided. As soon as the day before yesterday, from Yannina, Mr Mitsotakis made concrete proposals in terms of health care, with a different model, but not that expensive model that you say and which is based too much on European funds, which will probably not exist tomorrow. Of course, we have also proposed specific measures which do not have budgetary costs and which concern the prevention, electronic file, home-to-hearted distribution of medicinal products, the duration of repeated prescriptions up to a year to avoid patient contact with the hospital. These are all things you can do, but unfortunately, struggling with your ideas, they stay out. I now come to the core of the bill, which is the crisis councils. What are you doing? All you can do is enhance opacity. Which was heard in 2017 to make draws for those who will decide who will be a new curator or manager in a hospital. You, Minister, want with a draw to decide which doctor will operate for you? Where did the word draw sound? I agree that the previous way of choosing doctors for the ESS had its weaknesses. Now you're bringing what? You are bringing in a process that is completely opaque. That's what you're doing. So we cannot accept what you have said - and we still do not see that they have come out of the bill - on participation in the five-member committee of judgement of a member of administrative staff. We expect this to come out, Minister. I am referring to this because some of the amendments that came yesterday have succeeded and you have put them in, but that has not yet come out.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u51	That's a legal improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u52	Yes, but the amendment has already entered.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u53	That's the way it is, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u54	Yes, Minister, all right, you do it well. We don't disagree anywhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u55	The amendment is part of an article.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u56	Minister, you have time to answer, don't constantly interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u57	The amendment is part of an article. Legislative improvement is being tabled at the time of the plenary sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u58	Minister, I understand the difficult position you are, you can say what you want next.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Vlassy, finish up, 'cause we won't have time like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u60	Two more minutes, Mr. President. We believe - because the New Democracy is not only coming to disagree with anything, but to make proposals - that the five-member crisis council should take into account and what the hospital wants, what the clinic wants, something that you have taken out, which means that the hospital commander, as you said, should also take part in the director of the hospital's scientific service, that the director of the clinic, or better, should also take part in the department responsible for the post. Of course, when we say that there will also be a member of the five-member group, he will have to enter not in the crisis process, because at the moment you are putting in a basket and the coordinators who have been through a crisis and the managers who are simply in that position in the process of time. Qualify. Of course, the criteria for choosing a caretaker in a hospital are still unclear. We welcome the fact that you will inform us and that this provision will be put into consultation and we will agree somewhere. But let us have our objections, because we see how you legislate all this time. I shall end with an amendment that you have just brought yesterday and concerns the clearing of clawback. Let me remind you that this is the third time you have made legislation on the same subject. When we've been saying it for three years, you've been turbulent. After three years, then, you are bringing an amendment which, according to it, is correct, which needs to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u61	Mr. Vassie, finish it up. You are talking for 15 minutes and you are giving rise to a debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u62	It's good this clawback offsetting. Of course, I think it should be a little clearer that it will be about both procedures, namely the procedure that the provider has signed and the procedure that now appears without the signature of the provider and that you will have our agreement on this. As I make it clear that the European directive is not the core of the bill, which we will vote on, we say 'no' in the first place and we shall also be placed on the articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u64	If only we could say 'yes' to everything, as we will say 'yes' to what we agree, because the New Democracy is a force that was never behind 'no' and never opposed simply to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Constantine Barriots from the Democratic Alliance has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. We are discussing very few today, and that is important, just on the third calendar day following the deposit of a bill, for which, as it turns out, no one has any idea, and I have to admit that the day before yesterday, which was the first day of the bill, I fell into the sin of conspiracy. I imagined that whether it relates to this unacceptable Article 14, which was finally withdrawn from the government, which concerned clawback and the integration of clawback, or to a Memorandumary cheque urgently or anything else. Finally, it is evidenced by the way in which the bodies have evolved and the hearing - night and as soon as possible - and by the reactions that start to emerge - because they have not been able to record - from the medical world that it is just an act - I will say, I am sorry - of political cowardice. Let's go and drown a very important issue with the least possible dialogue, especially so that the reactions that exist do not have to be recorded, as, apart from the fact that it creates various problems, which we will then analyse, there is a great contrast, it is fragmentary and I very much fear that it will cause a lot of trouble along the way. So, in order for Mr. Paulakis to be able to say yesterday that "no forty of them were in the Ministry" and to prevent OENGE from giving press conferences, Mr. Sioras going out to the channels, as he does, and to record the reactions, we spent two and a half days and everything well. From tomorrow, however, it will appear that those who know and understand what exactly the bill is doing, have already understood and what is going to happen and what will happen. If we want to be honest, we need to start a little earlier. I must admit that in 2008 and 2009, in the midst of great mobilisations that claimed increases and on-calls, for the first time I sat down and saw how on-calls were built in my hospital. It wasn't easy at all. There was a discrepancy. You couldn't find it. I've also found that fabulous thing in the fictitious newspapers that no one saw. Mr. Polakis, it was a time when you were there, and I was there. Nobody wanted to see what happened with the plastics. There were colleagues who were still receiving a salary, and that had nothing to do with the work they did nor with the specialty they had with the hospital. It had to do with a particular way, which was also unrealistic and unrealistic. That's how we got into the crisis. Until then no one saw it. It was all fine with the fictional newspapers, which we paid very expensively as a branch. Because the doctors of the ESS are the public workers sector who paid the highest and most acute pay cuts, for the simple reason that more than half of them were fictitious on-calls, who left along with wage cuts. This was the result of a practice that we had all adopted - we must be honest - which was called fictitious on-calls by maintaining an opaque non-ordinary system. I would remind you that at the time I was trying to convince the federation to put on a newspaper model, that is to say, to put a rational algorithm, which could at least limit this mess, because it was evident now what was coming. So this is how we continue to produce on-calls. No one knows either who makes extras or why it makes no additions, nor how the plugins are produced, nor what needs they meet. I have re-examined the tables that are supposed to be posted on the websites of hospitals and IDUs. Everyone forgets to post newspaper programs. There are gaps. The image is not the same throughout the country, there are differentiations. No one has posted newspaper standards for the simple reason that they do not exist. No one explains, for example, why one would invent three orthopedics in the hospital and the other five. There's no such logic. The system is still unorthodox and opaque, and at this time it's free. Doctors are now on the lookout for a lens billboard, without anyone knowing why, how and how the newspapers are produced. I said before - and I will say again - that although Mr Cremastino has provided two articles which have overwhelming information on what he is doing to doctors' health, excessive on-calls and on-calls, two weekends and seventy-two hours in hospital - safe inspection means in particular safety for patients. The doctor who's forty-eight hours in surgery is a dangerous doctor. So the first reason why we need to clear this system and make a new on-call system is patient safety first and then the working rights and safety of doctors of course. In spite of the fact that Mr Paulakis actually answered 80%, I have one comment to make. We were all there. We all know what happened. We know there was corruption. We know there was a briefcase. We did what we didn't see. I remind you that OENGE over time, the smartest she found out about the file, was that inadmissible poster: "If they ask you for a briefcase, give it an empty one." That's what the patient does. In other words, the relative of the patient who was on the on-site with broken legs, for example, should also bear the weight of system clearance. If that's possible! But, Mr Polakis, you are doing something that does not honor you. Since the crisis began, every time there was a need to go through something, there was an attack on the doctors. What a taxi for Cologne's taxi-grills we heard. What about white shirts that have gone bankrupt the country, we've heard. Every time something has been smelled by the Minister - and in this you are not different with any precedents, do not hide - it rises and discovers that the system has been corrupted. Thank you very much. There was. And now there is. This changes with institutional interventions. It's not changing from the head office statements. We know that. 20%, 40%, 80% can see you by tomorrow. That doesn't offer anything. Change the system. Make transparent provisions. Make transparent way to stop this. Here we are, we'll help you. Let us hold a meeting in the Committee on Social Affairs, at any rate, to discuss the issue of corruption. We all have proposals that we can put forward and make decisions with consensus and consensus. Why don't we do it? Because we want to do this: every time it suits us, remember fairy tales and start saying, 'yes, you five, four and forty-two'. We have all had and have responsibilities, each on his side and certainly everyone on his own side. So if we want to deal with corruption, there's a way. Do we want a new framework for on-calls? I say we do. We want a new framework and a new logic, which includes many. We should discuss whether we want to make a new framework. We may have to separate - I have no view - and the disconnection of the total salary from the newspapers, from the hospital's coverage. We should also discuss this. We should also consider flexible working relationships. And I'm going to give an example in a few minutes. And a lot of other things we have to see. Should we discuss without ideological glasses what we should do in hospitals? I have been around a year ago - I don't know the situation today - in a hospital in the country, in a relatively mountainous city, which had - there was no doctor, he had booked a pathological clinic. Maybe he is now. Pathological clinic didn't exist. And as you can see, there was no hospital without pathological. 80% of the incidents entered the ambulances and went ninety or ten kilometers away from mountain roads. The city itself had seventeen qualified pathologists working. None of them applied to go to the hospital. Nobody wanted to go to the hospital because he had to shut down his office. Should we also discuss this? Are there cases in which the obsession with full and exclusive employment destroys the hospitals and reduces the potential of the system to deal with problems? Should we escape from concrete ideological ideological positions and go to a more realistic approach? Would, in some cases, doctors qualified for fixed-term contracts could do a better job than they do in some cases? Should we be able to open it up and stop sticking to ideological foundations, to chips and to dogmas in the past 20 years, which we have been expressly supporting and have not discussed since? I have said before - to go back to the bill - that the bill is essentially a triple to the European Commission and to doctors. I explained yesterday that on-calls have been overtaken - it is well known - with the money the extras from the commanders inside the hospital. Nothing's changed in hospital administration. The same customer relationships exist. The additional on-calls nobody knows why they exist and whether they really are necessary. So what the Ministry is trying to do is to raise an economic cost that has opened it up, effectively allowing hospital governors to give money from the budget. We have all explained - and I will not say it again - what is impossible. And the Ministry admits it. Forty-eight hours is impossible. Five experts, Minister, need the system to come out at 60 hours, not at 48 hours. He needs eight hours. There's hardly any clinic in the province to have them. They may have some very large clinics downtown. I have also explained that it is essential - because the triple is for the European Union - the right of the doctor to refuse sixty-hours. That's the way it's formulated. No one will deny the sixty-hour. Because anyone who refuses the sixty-hour will find themselves paid for the same hours of on-call time with less money. No one has any reason to deny the sixty-hour. We'll keep going the way we are. We will continue to have preparedness too. You have not responded to that, Minister. He doesn't put elementary valves on the bill, because it's hasty and shaky. There's a chance that a doctor will be on-call for a whole month of readiness. There's no limit. Let's get paid. I'm not saying they'll be unpaid. In other words, there is a payment of much less preparedness than normal. But it could have a four-seven-seven-day involvement, though. Being on four weekends, sometime, hanged and must be around the hospital. There was no solution to that. You have not responded to this because it has no rules on jobs and on the protection of the rights of doctors. We're saying we're going to be doing a forty-hour when we can, but until then, we don't put any clauses in it. We're actually opening up the system to cover it with less money. Nothing else. And that's why doctors react. They get it, they know it. They know that tomorrow in many cases they will get less money, badly, because they take little, bad lies, to do the same on-call work, and in many cases worse, because the situation is such a thing and it cannot be solved. But we're not talking about any of this. Very soon, I told you about the crisis councils. They don't really change anything. They present and capture centralism in the Ministry's mentality, which must at some point admit that "I want to make a central service absolutely centralised. I don't care about the structure of the health system as it is now. I want to change it." However, it is reflected everywhere - even in the fact that you have taken from the scientific councils the responsibility of preparing the news programme in the Ministry, you are taking the crisis councils in the Ministry and you are making a sense of a public service which will soon end up in lists of alternates, as is the case with the Ministry of Education, which is a different culture, with which I disagree. But in fact, the crisis council doesn't change anything. I said it yesterday. There is a medical centre-centric perception, a majority of doctors with the tendency - and we all know it - to reproduce themselves not only on party criteria, but also on party criteria, which if there are no safeguards in place, if there is no secondary body that controls criteria and fills positions, it will continue to be done in the same undisturbed way as a life. So, I think you should see it again and talk about it. I've already said that the gathering of everyone in the ministry creates huge problems. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, you will give me a minute for just one comment on something Mr Blonde has raised yesterday to my great surprise. What I was saying, when the law was passed for the uninsured, you said it yesterday. I'm glad. It is a good arrangement, which includes strategic mispaids, those who do not want and those who need it, of course, to God, but creates a tendency that, although not, encourages tax evasion. It's a stimulus for someone to pay. You said it yesterday. I agree. For God's sake, we can't go on with such logic. If it is our duty - and it is - to cover uninsured people, to undermine the insurance system in the long and medium term and to create additional costs to those who pay and nobody pays easily, there are those who cannot, those who do not want to pay with blood, these are the three main categories in the country, so we cannot allow third parties to charge everything, it is perhaps a time, since you admit it now, to see it again from a new basis and to talk about it again. They have to introduce income criteria and criteria professionally. A professional who continues to operate or a farmer who continues to receive subsidies for the products he produces along with the prices he receives can continue to be considered uninsured because he is not. It's another thing. There are interim situations, let's see them. There's gray belts to talk about. But at first this thing at some point adds great costs to the health system, giving a signal to society that continues to say this famous "I don't pay", which cost the country huge problems. I will conclude with this, one comment only on one amendment, and the rest will then be discussed. I hope that, given the consent of the journalists to the solution given to the EDEAP and given the reservations about the long-term viability of the fund and whether this will give a definitive solution, although there are no legitimate reservations about the long-term nature of the issue, there is no proportionate study, and this is a major problem, we will support this amendment, as it seems that the fund is coming out of the acute deadlock that it has reached because of the Katrugalo Law a year and a half ago, and the inertia between the government, while maintaining our reservations about the long-term. We need to find a definitive solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u67	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the educational programme of the "Democracy Workshop" organized by the Foundation, twenty-five students and students and an attendant of the 7th Elementary School of Alimos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty-six students and students and three teachers attendants from the 1st Souda Municipal School of Chania. The House welcomes them. Mr Ioannis Aivatidis has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. The introduced draft law constitutes a harmonisation of Greek law with the European Directive 88/88 of the year 2003. I would like to start by making a brief reference to the European Union legal system. The Directives are binding on Member States only in terms of achieving their objective. That is to say, the Member States - or have the discretion to change according to national circumstances, in order to lead to something that will benefit the Member State -. On 23 December 2015 a judgment was adopted condemning our country, concerning incompatibilities of the legal framework governing our national law with Directive 88/2003. According to the Ministry’s leadership, therefore, punishment is threatened and a large fine is imposed. We therefore believe that this reference is only a pretext. In fact, this draft law was introduced in an unexpected way in the form of an emergency. Because, on the basis of the information so far, I cannot - and I would like to say this very gladly - find myself unsatisfactory to the two Ministers, who are, indeed, receiving fellow doctors, conclude that this surprise was the purpose and the whole of energy is a fraudulent action, in order to achieve the surprise of the medical world and of the House yet. I think there was a surprise indeed. Several bodies called to the committees did not come and, on the other hand, with the urgency of the matter, this surprise avoided the Ministry's leadership of prolonged reactions and movement on the part of the medical world. The position of the Golden Dawn - and it should also be a permanent position of all parties - is that the health sector should be excluded from the memoranda and any applicable memorandum policies. SYRIZA - Independent Greeks co-government has become a memorandum of the memorial and, indeed, this confirms the old saying of the former Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. Metropoulou, on a relentless policy of co-government. On the other hand, the field of health is not offered for acute political confrontation, it is not for ideological anger or for expression of a complex of ideological inferiority. I am referring, of course, to the question that the Ministers do not answer the questions raised by Members of the Golden Dawn. This, whether it is an ideological anger or a pretext, is indeed - and that is what I believe - a manifestation of the ideological inferiority of the main ministers. For reasons of principle, we will vote against the introductory bill. Apart from this, however, that it is a memorandum in practice, it is practically inapplicable, because there are huge gaps in the health system. There is a possibility that it will only become applicable if these gaps are paid, i.e. if there are loopholes, I would say mass recruitment to the National Health System, which must be done and we wish that. Incoming into the articles, I would say that it is vital to introduce the exception clause, that is to say, the possibility of an opt out or an opt in doctors for three years, that is to say, overcoming the weekly working time limit by up to sixty hours. But that, the opt-out, the opt-out clause, involves a distinction. Two-speed doctors can be created. In other words, it should be the doctors who will, by their own will, be willing to engage in this overcoming, up to sixty hours of work, in the sense that this will certainly have some economic benefit. But there are doctors who, like many citizens, of course - particularly increased family obligations, can be very complex, have minor children, have supportive or helpless parents, and it makes sense that they are unable to respond to this opt out, so that they can actually lead to a cut in their income. The second point I would like to make - and it is important - is that I consider the introduction of the exemption clause to be a central point in the draft law and does not exist in the relevant directive. In this context, the substance of the directive itself is being overshadowed. In other words, doctors who, in fact, give a titanic struggle - we all know that - will again be imposed on hospitals with a health system which is heavily burdened by the flows of migrants - that is a given one. We believe that this opt out is essentially a trick to overhaul this directive itself and reinstate doctors, the servants of the National Health System. In the whole rationale of the draft law, it seems or would say that the total approach governing the legislative work and the leadership of the Ministry is revealed. I shall refer to a detail, but it may be important. A 15-minute break is scheduled after six consecutive hours of work of the doctor. We believe that it should be increased to at least half a hour, because the ministers too, as doctors, know very well that fifteen minutes are not enough after a surgery of six hours, for example, for an orthopaedic surgeon to rest in the day and continue his work in the emergency department. So this 15-minute rest I mean - should be increased to at least half a hour. From the initial study of the draft law, it appeared that there is a procedure for non-compensation of on-call for doctors. We have listened with satisfaction to the Minister to ensure that on-calls are compensated. With regard to the other articles, after the sixth and starting from the seventh article and the National Health System Doctors' Crisis and Selection Councils, Article 7 provides that three members will participate with the degree of Director or Coordinator, selected not by the Ministry but by any other body. We cannot accept that, and we will vote against it, because I would say that it is a little reminiscent of the infamous provision for the drawer in schools. In Article 8, which provides for a structured interview, the framework of the structured interview should in any case be strictly defined, i.e. only on scientific rather than ideological issues. Because there is a tendency to favour ideological or party meetings, this structured interview, as well as some of the articles. Article 10 for the payment of the flight allowance to medical staff carrying out aerospace stays of patients, Golden Dawn will vote for it because it is indeed positive. With regard to Article 15 and the abolition of outstanding trials, where hospitals or other health services claim judicially from citizens who were uninsured, the money for hospitals, unfortunately, did not bring the information we requested. What we have asked for is very specific. If they are foreign, what is the percentage for foreign debtors? What is the exact amount and how long? The Ministry chose not to bring the relevant data, so we won't be positive. In conclusion, we are voting against this draft law. We denounce the coup d'état, and here we condemn the Ministry of Health's leadership, that it has a monumental modus vivendi and a modus operandi listener with patriotic populism and, more generally, a relentless policy on health, as well as a whole. Golden Dawn will continue unnecessarily to fight for a national approach to health, for a national health system, indeed national, in favour of the health of the Greek citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Georgios Lambroulis from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. With the incorporation of the European Union's anti-government directive into the bill we are discussing, the working time of doctors is more flexible, all regularity in working hours is relaxed and the lives of doctors are literally deregulation. It is a challenge on the part of the government at the same time as it maintains all the anti-corruption framework it received from the New Democracy and the PASOK, while preparing a new attack at the next time on labour rights, to bring to Parliament another anti-corruption abortion that concerns the elasticization of the working time of hospital doctors, when just a few days ago, the Prime Minister with a lot of courage was talking about protecting labour rights. The bill is a dangerous development, not only for doctors, but for workers as a whole. Moreover, there is European Union-wide experience, such as in Germany, where the eruption of fixed daily working time and flexibility began by doctors and were extended everywhere. Thus, the bill may concern and starts by doctors, but it paves the way for reactionary changes in other sectors in general. In fact, the government is doing its utmost to deceive doctors and other workers by presenting that this anti-racial measure allegedly ensures respect for the working rights of doctors - as is stated in the explanatory memorandum - and at the same time the safe and quality care of patients. Thus, according to the Euro-Union directives which the government promotes, work time will not be calculated on the basis of the fixed daily seven-hours, but on the basis of the average weekly working hours over four months, which should not exceed forty-eight hours a week together with overtime. Thus, forty - eight hours is not the maximum working week, but the average. So what is it? The arrangement, elasticizing working time in the four-month period, which, through opt out, requires the individual consent of the doctor and which is first legislated, increases the average weekly working time from forty-eight hours to sixty hours. Only as a misguided joke can the possibility of the doctor’s free consent with data be understood to the problems of subscribing to doctors of health structures, the threat of evaluation, the phenomena of authoritarianism and arbitraryity, the entrepreneurs who give and take, the pressures of managers and administrations. So the six-hour period will become a rule for those who agree and those who do not agree. And the advantage - and also mentioned in the explanatory statement - of increasing income, as stated in the bill, for those who consent to work for sixty hours, can only be taken as a challenge and, of course, it is the cheese in the light of the fact. The government's claim that the exception, in the sixteenth hour, will apply for three years, until the required recruitment is made, is beyond hypocritical, with the memorials, the primary surplus targets, which require the reduction of health, education, welfare, etc. Through the definitions of active on-call and on-call preparedness in conjunction with the definition of working time, it is considered as working time only when the doctor is at work. The concept of inactive working time is thus introduced and it follows that on-call time is not considered to be working time and is not counted in the quadrant, on the basis of which the average weekly working time will be calculated, while leaving open and the possibility of this type of on-call is not paid unless the doctor is called to the hospital and provide services. This opens the way not only not only to not pay for the preparedness outside the workplace - and this is the first consequence of the distinction of active - inactive working time - but also in a hospital, when the doctor does not provide a service or is not paid all this time, which is the second consequence of the discrimination. The importance of this anti-government directive as a whole is enormous and we stress it for the whole of the working class, with a peak in sectors such as transport, energy, hotels, commerce and others in the private and public sectors, where the preparedness service exists. Thus employers - whether they be entrepreneurs or the urban state itself - ensure even cheaper labour costs, since they distribute working time when, wherever and for as long as they think it is of interest, they are confusing working and living conditions for the workers. So they can, with the same number of workers or fewer people, ensure that more work and hence more profits come out, even if they give as an incentive to an additional amount as a fee, even if they reduce the overall amount, but arranged working time. This bill - an abortion - we reject it, we vote against and we call on doctors in total, the workers to reject it and make it inactive in practice and, at the same time, to step up their struggle to defend stable daily working time, without any form of settlement, against Euro-Union directives and presidential decrees. Today, with a large number of trained workforce and scientists from all sectors, with the opportunities offered by the progress of technology and productivity, it is mature and necessary to establish less stable working time and, at the same time, to satisfy modern popular needs, between them and health services. Our proposal for a stable hour, five hours, three hours a week, with one on-call, with the next day, taking all necessary measures to protect the health of doctors, the integration into heavy and unhealthy, the massive recruitment of permanent doctors of full-time and exclusive employment and not subsidiary, with the simulation of all subsidiary doctors and the abolition of flexible working relationships in hospitals, is inextricably linked to our position to the development of a state health-care system only at all levels, primary, secondary, tertiary. It is the only proposal that meets both the needs of doctors for human hours and decent working conditions and the needs of patients for a high level, modern and absolutely free health services for the whole people. This proposal comes precisely and binds with Article 7 where any controversy, if you wish, has also been in the committee, whatever different views have been expressed, expressed only at the level of the composition of the boards, the criteria for the selection of staff, the doctors, and others that concern - let me - the procedural term. For us the main issue is that, despite the enormous needs that exist in all public health structures for doctors of all specialties, recruitment is done with the dropper and not even the six and a half thousand vacancies of public hospitals and primary health care units are not covered. The argument put forward by the government is well founded by the previous governments and we are thus staying the same. For the current government, as for the previous ones, priorities are the budgetary targets, which go through reducing recruitment in the sensitive health area. And as soon as the procedures provided for in Articles 7 and 8 are accelerated, at the end of the route it will again be one of the same, that patients do not find the doctors all days of the month, that there will be intensification and neutralization of doctors' servants. Really, with the criteria that come in, no part of doctors will be excluded, but especially young people? How will they gain, for example, work experience - one of the criteria whose gravity will be strengthened in assessments and in crises about jobs - if they do not work? Of all the things that have been said, what is confirmed is that in a transparent and aptitude, the severance of health units will continue! Mr President, I will directly ask the Minister - and we asked him yesterday, but we did not get the following answer: in Article 6 the third paragraph of Article 1 of Law 3754/2009 is deleted. That article mentioned - I read it, to be recorded in the Minutes - "For the needs of the on-call and smooth operation programme of hospitals and health centres, there are no flexible working hours and flexible working relationships". That's why you're removing it. I ask you directly. We need an answer. Mr President, as far as the amendments are concerned, we shall be placed in the densities that we will obviously have towards the end of the sitting. We also expect the respective Minister to come to support the amendment on the EDPS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr. Lambroulis. Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos from the Independent Greeks has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to begin by noting that a large part of Greek citizens, 30% -35%, are on the verge of poverty. I want to make it clear from the outset that it is important that health - and above all public health - is an obligation for any state in its own citizens. Some in this Chamber - and it is not without cause what I'm saying - is with one foot on the private initiative and the other foot on public health. I am not against the private initiative with rules - and I believe neither the government - but at this stage where a great party of Greek citizens is really experiencing the crisis, we need a well-defined national health system. This has not happened in the last decade and you all know it very well. The country's bankrupt. This is no time to say why. Because, in fact, I have lived on both sides of this system, I would just like to remind you that a large party of Greek citizens, especially before the 5 euro payment was abolished, had to go to private structures, that is to say, centres that operated voluntarily, because that was where he could have free care and get some medicines free of charge. All of this - and this is very important - has been a cause since the EUR 5 has been abolished. In fact, then some had mocked it and said it shouldn't be done, etc. They forget, however, that elderly people or people with chronic conditions do not go to the doctor once and twice a month, but much more in time. I say this because another piece in this Chamber has been doing revolutionary gymnastics, as if we haven't had a crisis, as if recruitment had not stopped for many years. You know very well that there was a fear of health workers, as a lot of people retired with fear of what they would do about retirement, etc. Therefore, there have been huge gaps. The system has reached the forefront of the collapse - and this is not an exaggeration - and for years we have been facing specific problems. The public hospitals had almost left themselves in their luck. Privates grow like mushrooms. Emergency departments were normally a war zone. There was an incredible sight. No one's ever been interested in primary health care. How would public hospitals work properly? No one was touching the issue of primary care for a simple reason, because it did not help some people. I don't mean it. Private doctors have offered. Many of them did a very serious job. It is no reason, however, that he is conspiring every day in "Evangelism" and "General" thousands of people who could have served elsewhere. What is today being done structurally? I am one of the war zones that took place in public hospitals, and I had denounced it many times. The autonomous existence of emergency departments is a fact today. It's backing up. It is not just the five hundred seats that will soon be manned. This is important for the quality of health offered at a very difficult time. Nobody goes to a public hospital for fun. At least in the ER's gone because he's having a problem. It's a pity that this experience of indelibleness was characterized in his life. It was an incredible experience that forced the poorer still to say: 'to go to the tracks, I cannot wait in line, I will go give any money'. That stopped. It stops slowly. Some people don't want to understand it. A second thing is primary health care. In this Chamber, the following has been heard: 'What are you going to do?', 'How are you going to fund?' For Christ's sake! It is a step necessary for hospitals to function properly. Is it done? Oh, no. It's going to get slowly, gradually. Do doctors get paid properly? Oh, no. Is it possible in a country in crisis and everything that has been reduced, which has been cut off twelve times by all the workers - and I admit it twice - doctors remain unavoidable? Oh, no. We were living an incredible party in public hospitals. I've lived. I was commander in Nice and we were paying the pacemakers 3,000 euros and 4,000 euros, when the same company had the same pacemakers in another state, in Cyprus, for example, had them 500 euros and 600 euros. No one was interested in these things, nor in the prices of medicines, and in how industries operated. We're talking about an incredible party that got the annual cost to EUR 9 billion. Nobody was talking. And now we are seeing a revolution terrible. No, you guys, we didn't say we were doing all right. We still have a lot to do. But that's the reality. We are obliged to see it in the eyes at a time when 1/3 of the Greeks are indeed at the limit of poverty. I don't deny it. Macroeconomics may go well, but in the microeconomics, daily life will be collected in eight, nine, ten months. We don't triumph. A large part of the world is actually suffering. So, is it allowed to inactivate the part of health? Oh, no. The most important are health and education. What were they doing here? I remember years in side manners they talked about cyclical hours - which they didn't want - for specialists and others. There's nothing going on. Seven-hour regular. Twelve hours in a row? Mandatory day off. I was pleased to see for the first time - we have been asking for years - that the moleculosis made in the CIPs, which was the case: objections, that one should be appointed, that one should not go to be appointed and gone by saying. What motives to get a doctor to a small place, to work in the province hospital? The health centres, too, which have been so swamped, I see that they will solve an important problem. All doctors are now on a 24-hour basis. Health centers will be absorbed. What do I mean? Because I hear excesses, I also raised the tons, because I can't hear people pretending. I'm not talking about MPs. I was amazed at what happened with the agencies. It made me an alpine impression, 'cause I know faces and things. I've been working in the public sector thirty-five years, and I'm able to know. Many of you, well-meaningly say it, you don't know. He who talks don't know what he's saying, what he is, what a course he's taken. I know her. I know her, because they're doctors who served the National Health System unselfishly. They didn't depend on it. There's been a misunderstanding about the bags. Do you want me to tell you something? You have to be a manager, have a dominant position in a hospital, and have surgery specialty to get a briefcase. A pathologist or a laboratory doctor, a radiologist, what's a sachet to take? So is a resident. These things can't be done. These people I don't abuse - honestly I tell you - because they take hunger wages. But shouldn't this story ever end? Shouldn't we call her? Hide behind our fingers because it's a syndicate advantage and they won't vote for us in the next election? Oh, no. It's not like that. I believe that this bill lays the foundations - beyond the 150 million fine, which cannot be ignored in a time of crisis - to start something right. In all Articles one to one, I will raise the issue of pending judicial decisions again. It's tangible proof that this government is interested in those who have a problem. Even for pending trials, why were people uninsured and unable to pay, now Article 15 catches those who did not catch Article 73. I will say it again: Don't be exposed because 18 million euros were assured of the taxes and 150 million were ready to ask uninsured Greek citizens for them. That's what we did. Hey, guys, I'm glad to hear that. But how did you get so much money to owe them after you did it? How did you do it? I am pleased, because even now, with Article 15, where legal decisions are pending are extinguished. I do not want to waste any more time, and I want to apologize, because last time I put up a lot of tones in the committee and it doesn't work for me. I can tell you again, however, that what we were living - because I have lived on both sides - and what happened in the procurement department in public hospitals was incredible things and I do not want to remember them. And no one was interested! And I see some people doing revolutionary "neutral" today on the one hand and others having their minds investing in the private sector, with which I have nothing. I would also like to mention an example of a country that I have lived in close proximity to the Netherlands. There is an ambulance in private and public. I'll let you know it doesn't make any difference. But they work with rules there. The private initiative operates under strict rules. We feed them, too. I have no objections. By then, however, at a time of crisis, it must fall weight in the public health sector and I believe that this draft law lays the foundations, although it does not solve the problem definitively. I think this controversy is no good. I have heard some good proposals. And Mr Barriotta has heard him and the speaker of the New Democracy. Some of them should be seen and seen again. No denial, though. These superstitions, your "my, his, his" don't fit. I think they're unfair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Aristides Fokas from the Centroon Union has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible to allow the Memorandum of Understanding of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL to eliminate the Greek health system. Without any shame, without guilt, they bring to the vote a bill that will hit the heart of the health system. Doctors, who today work countless hours in hospitals to give up any dignity in the health field, which is misleading by the tragic shortages of personnel. These doctors are coming today to force them not only to work longer, but they are forced at the same time to give you an alibi by signing individual exemption contracts and taking full responsibility for their overtime, exterminate them and, of course, for whatever mistakes occur during these overtime. You are trying to trick not only doctors, but also society as a whole by mentioning in the bill how health workers will feel at 60 - hour work the advantage of increasing their incomes. You may be missed, but for the first time your charitable government is coming to establish individual contracts and even for voluntary overtime. You're putting a three-year limit until the required recruitment takes place, if of course they never do. Physicians are talking about working captivity, about a bill of extermination, even stressing that the current government is not only left, but is not even human. Their mobilisations have already begun, noting that they are considering even the possibility of abstaining from the new news programs. It is characteristic that the doctors in Thessaloniki told me, who said that with the new bill, they will either be exterminated or resigned. Unfortunately, I don't know if you're even aware of the extent of the disaster you're going to bring to hospitals. The weekend, calculated as an average over a four-month period, work 12-hours, voluntary six-hours are measures that will probably intensify the phenomenon of long stays in hospitals and the working stress of doctors you say you want to fight. Doctors, having evidence in their hands of health systems in England and France, squeeze the alarm and complain that you are opening the way for even worse working conditions, for a turn to private doctors, which will only be used to fill gaps in newspapers and doctors who will be forced to come from primary health in hospitals to cover gaps mainly in heavy sections, such as emergency and surgical clinics, which is today. However, they estimate that it will be intensified after the implementation of the new working time. The arrangements in this bill will mean that every service will now remain 1/3 of doctors compared to today, which will of course have to do with a multitude of work. There will be sections with a single doctor per on-call. What can a man do? What kind of care will it provide the patient with in his hands? Is that the health system you want for our country? For example, in Thessaloniki today there is a great deal of lack of anesthetics, so that the number of surgery, which is done on a daily basis, is reduced. The doctors themselves denounce that. When the number of anaesthetics falls even further because of the new working hours and the introduction of new newspapers, can you imagine what conditions will be created in Greek hospitals? If the anaesthetics and perhaps even more and the surgeons are reduced, lists will be created with patients, who would literally be beg for their turn. The major problem is lack of staff. And until you decide to act like a government and find real solutions, this problem will remain before us. I'm sure you know the numbers of shame, but I'll repeat them again. I would remind you that at the moment there are six thousand deficiencies in organic health. With a fine of EUR 150,000 000 for the non-harmonisation of the country with the European directive that you constantly invoke, you could go ahead with about five thousand recruitments. No sixty-hours, no individual contracts, no exhausting hours. It's just a will from a government, which seems to have never had it. There are solutions. As long as you implement the Prime Minister's promise at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition. At that time the Prime Minister had promised that the debts of the free professionals would be frozen and will go on the time of the pension for each insured person. It would give a huge opportunity to the free traders. We are talking about four hundred thousand free professionals who do not currently contribute to the insurance fund. This huge opportunity would be given to be able to make a contribution today to the insurance system. You've proven that you don't want the free professionals. You have proved it by deeds because you are ruling three years. You've proved you're kicking them out every day. You are prosecuting operations in the Balkans, in Skopje, in Albania, in Bulgaria. They go there to save their families. You don't want the professionals. You have demonstrated this with the ESRB programme that, from January 2015 until today, whatever programme it has run, the free trader has not received a single euro grant. It has completed the investments, paid VAT on invoices and has not received a euro grant. You have proven that you do not want the free professionals for red loans. He's proved that, too. You've made an extrajudicial compromise that doesn't work in practice - and you deliberately made it - you have a development law that had two and a half years to come and once it came, it's not working at all and you've been holding four hundred thousand free professionals hostage because you don't want them. That's what the health space pays for. He's paying for it with this bill. I invite you to act on the Prime Minister's promise and to freeze the debts of the people insured for the fund. If you move on to this promise by the Prime Minister and the two thousand free professionals from the four hundred thousand - even the lower contributions, which are 167 euros a month - can now get 400,000 euros a year and there will be no need for uninsured free professionals who hold them in hospitals as uninsured and pass this torture. Your bill will unfortunately be a tombstone for the most combat part in the area of health. Know that when you fail, you will not only have to answer to the exterminated doctors, but also to the citizens of this country, who will have deprived them of the most valuable good, their health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Spyros Danellis from the river has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been here for many years to discuss a draft law under the urgency procedure. We are, of course, aware of the need, as there is a judgment by the European Court of Justice from 23-12-2015, concerning the failure to harmonise our national legislation with European Directive 2003/88. The Minister informed us in committee that after the sentence there was an eighteen-month adjustment period which, unfortunately, expired. He also told us that the services of the European Union to which the Greek side committed that by the end of September we would have managed to legislate and finally incorporate the directive into Greek law. The Ministry did not manage to bring this into law or within the scope of the extension. Why? For a number of reasons, the Minister told us. For various reasons it went a little back and now, unfortunately, we have no room for delay. These undetermined reasons constitute the Greek pathogen. Of course, this is not new, it is not unique, it is not present, Minister. Therefore, a fine of EUR 150,000 000 is imposed and the Ministry is pressed to legislate immediately so that the Commission suggests that it is not enforced. Accepted. However, what is also unthinkable is that, in a permanently friendly tactic, alongside some urgent provisions, there are provisions of abundantly mistresses. Some right, some problematic. Indeed, the right or not of the direction of regulation with such conditions comes into a second plan, which is overshadowed by the unorthodox process, which in many cases is a substance. In order not only to present problems, however, I would like to point out that we welcome the decision by the Minister to withdraw Rule 14, following the well-founded reactions of both representatives of the pharmaceutical industry and of the opposition parties. We believe that substantial and detailed consultation is a prerequisite for the legislative process, for the good legislative procedure and we would like the choice of Mr Xanthos and not to prove circumstantial but also to example other ministers of the government to avoid surprises and unilateral initiatives. The dialogue is, moreover, an essential element of democracy and certainly does not mean a reduction in the decisive powers of the ministers. Now let's get to the bottom of the arrangements. At the hearing we recorded significant responses to the committee, which were called upon to be heard, but not always in the context of rationalisation and law. However, we have heard the representative of OENGE disapprove of the draft law, describing it as an abortion. We want to hope, Minister - and we hope so - that the act will not justify such a horrific concept. We have heard the spokesman of the POPER to characterise the draw process as a level playing field, which enters and insists on the need to participate in the crisis councils and choose ERC doctors, members who know the needs in detail. It will also be judged in practice quickly and we will see whether the new system will indeed walk smoothly or create issues. In Chapter I, Articles 1 to 6 are, of course, the alibi of the designation as an 'urgent'. With regard to Articles 7 and 8 for the procedures for the judgment and selection of ESS physicians, selection criteria shall consist of pre-service, clinical experience, scientific and educational work and administrative competences where they are deemed to be managers. The factors of gravity, in accordance with paragraph 8, are to be determined by a ministerial decision. We consider it very important that the public consultation procedure to which you referred, Mr Minister, should be carried out so that the positions and arguments of the parties involved can be recorded. Very important is the role of the structured interview, which will be 20%, if I am not mistaken and it would be well to record it in order to ensure transparency. Here, let us say that the opposition procedure in its present form does not include an interview. And we've recorded cases of complete overthrow of the ranking. Such an example is the case of the selection of school directors, where many cases have been brought to justice. These must be avoided. It would be good, then, to eliminate any suspicion of favorable rule, to have a secondary procedure of objections after the interview. With the structured interview and the recorded minutes, this committee will be able to decide quickly. We can only stand by the rules laid down in Article 10 for the repayment of the flight allowance to staff carrying out aerial spaces of patients. The payment of the allowance is only a minimum recognition of the project provided by the employees concerned, sometimes at the risk of their lives. The transfer of certain organic specialisations of the staff of the repealed ECHR to agencies outside the Ministry of Health, because according to the latter's body we cannot be absorbed there, because we would certainly not support the redundancies of workers. But we wonder - and I think this is because of a lack of consultation - whether their transfer to the CSR is the best solution to the problem. We want to hope that the possible solutions have been explored and the most effective option has been made for both workers and potential hosts. After the Minister's reply to Mr Mavrot's complaints at the last meeting of the committee, the explanations of objective weakness, we are positive to Article 15. But it would be good if we had more complete information at our disposal at a time. Even the report of the General Accounting Office of the State was not able to provide evidence except for the "PAPAGEORGIOU". [[The President-in-Office of the Council, Mr DIMITRIOS KAMMEINOS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] We are, I would say, ideologically opposed to regulations of the type referred to in Article 16. We have said many times in this Chamber that the phrase "within the provisions of the provisions", and in particular the words "within the provisions of Articles 66 and 68 of Law 4270/2014 and of D.113/2010" and, in general, this concept creates, unfortunately, many problems and we would like to see the proper functioning of the state machine finally taking place. As far as Rule 17 is concerned, we are waiting for some answers to the questions raised by Mr Mavroy in committee. We expect quantitative and qualitative data. How many employees does this have to do with it? What kind of movements? Are these spatial movements involved in change of duties? We want to understand whether these movements serve functional needs, to see whether, as mentioned in the explanatory statement, the relevant positions are expected to be covered by ongoing appointment procedures, so the movers will reasonably return to their organic positions. In any case, I refer to the relevant provision for movements which, as mentioned, have expired or expired until the entry into force of this legislation and we do not understand how they have a place in this legislation. You are therefore inviting us to vote in favour of the extension of movements, which have already expired. Isn't that right? And I wonder, where are these officials today? This law still does not apply, since we did not vote for it. Have they returned to their organic positions or not? These are some questions that need to be answered in order to decide our final attitude. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr. Dannelly. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty one students and students and thirteen educational sessions of the Board of Special Education of the First Step of Koropi. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Polakis, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u78	The Minister doesn't want to hear us first?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u79	This is a speech, colleague. It's gonna follow a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u80	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start my speech with a historical report, because I think we have not had the drink of forgetting here, to forget how things have reached this point. There is a criticism from the Opposition, assistants and the decisions of certain trade unions, which within it has a destructive perspective of an abortion bill, which impoverishes doctors, which dismantles labour relations and family planning and other such delicious ones. December 1993: I have not decided whether to continue with general surgery and I started armor surgery in Nice. From 1 to 13 December 1993, due to the needs of the clinic, I invented thirteen days continuously active on-call - one day in general the other inner day, etc. - an assistant and a curator who played the role of director at the time, who briefed the seven days of them. When was work impoverished, ladies and gentlemen? What was that? Was that not the reason - and this is one of the thousands of incidents, which we have experienced in previous years - that prompted the doctors' trade unions to say that, at last, we must work with different working hours and human working conditions? From the associations of hospital doctors, did not the procedure for recourse to European bodies began following the adoption of the European 48-hour directive, which said that it would harmonize this and the way doctors work in Greece, on the basis of what is happening in other countries? That's where it started, isn't it? We do not have, after the ruling of the Court of Justice, a text signed by the President and the secretary of the Federation of Hospital Doctors, which renounces the government: 'Application the court's decision, otherwise we will appeal there to pay the fine'. Look, in order not to say air words about needs for opposition, since the European Court of Justice made this decision, we had four choices in front of us. One solution was to pay the fine, namely to give EUR 150 million, that is, half the increase we have made over the last two, three years from the state budget, to public hospitals. The second solution would be to do what Mr Vorides had proposed, again, to recall some things, namely to apply a circular hour. So, let's just say that doctors should work with a round hour, eight hours. Isn't that a disorganization of the lives of people and doctors? The third solution would be to do what they do, which is a series of other countries, which everyone has condemned, except for some I have heard today, namely, to hire newspapers. Let us say that there is the permanent staff of hospitals and that in order to meet the criteria and conditions laid down by the European Court of Justice, we will hire people, fellow doctors, who will only do on-calls. These were the first three scenarios. We did not choose one of the three. Responding to what we had fought for over the past few years, and now it seems that some, because they want and must save and well oppose, forget about them, we kept the stable core of industrial relations, which speaks of seven hours, five days continuous hours in the morning operation of hospitals. One of the prisoners.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u82	Your partners.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u83	But don't fly, Mr. Economou, all the time. It's getting tired from a point of view. So we have kept the core of industrial relations from there, and we are adapting the process with a major change, that is, that no one can work continuously over twelve hours. It needs to be rested. And that's guaranteed. This is not a job extermination. This is a work and human facility. How do we do it? Don't you understand? How much less can we say this thing? Second of all, we're enforcing the day-to-day story. Thirdly - and we are now coming to the other criticism - it is clear that in order to implement this project as a whole, more people need in the system than those who exist today. And that's what we've been doing for two years. That is why we say that the implementation of this bill will be gradual, will also be locally, based on how this health region will choose and will be assessed by the hospital administrations and doctors if this thing can be applied to its totality. That's how it's gonna happen. You don't turn a button tomorrow morning and apply this bill. Again, I remember a few things: In the last two years we have activated six hundred old crises with corresponding credits, of which three hundred doctors have already been on duty with frozen crises even since 2006 and 2007. More than four hundred doctors have already been hired since the 2016 notice. And the process goes on. By the Act of the Ministerial Council from the lot of two thousand permanent doctors, almost a thousand doctors have been called upon, together with the TLP notice, to come out in the next few days in the air. This is a large injection of personnel into the health system, which will be completed with the large part of the four hundred and fifty people who will go to the primary school and the others who will strengthen the gaps that will be found in the hospitals. This is the greatest injection of personnel into the public health system ever since it was made. That's reality. They're not air words. I forgot to say that the system was strengthened from October 2015 until May 2016 with a thousand five hundred auxiliary doctors in addition, who had been serving until then, who were about five hundred. Otherwise, it wouldn't balance the system. Otherwise, we wouldn't talk about system today. With the completion of these recruitments, this could gradually be the case, which describes the draft law on the new way of work and the new working hours. Otherwise, it can't be. A central intervention of this character where hospitals are hurt, where we are all saying so many years but no one has done anything in previous years - and now it will be - is the massive intervention to recruit five hundred posts in emergencies. You have heard many times in the past about the necessity of the autonomous TENs etc., that this is where the system hurts, there the sick is being tortured, there are problems, troubles, delays, indignation of the world. That was years ago. Why couldn't it? Because they were not provided for in the hospitals' organizations - the first and the best in the years of the memoranda - organic positions to be proclaimed. We introduced by law four hundred and sixty-five such positions, which were added only to the fifty, which existed in the hospital agencies, either the older or the memorandum packed. So now we have a number sharing him with the major hospitals in the country in particular, it can be the basis for organising the operation of the autonomous TLPs, the most urgent part of the operation of the hospitals, which will have multiplier consequences for all the needs of injecting the hospitals. Is it so hard to understand that? Thirdly, the intervention for the IMPs. At the moment, there is not even a single organic position in the intensive care units in the country - which have great on-call needs - which has not been announced. One hundred and eighty-five masses were approved in the notice and are currently in the air. There's some crises going on in some. In practice, we meet the needs for medical, scientific potential in the two most important - everything is important - in the two most heavy sections of hospitals. Don't you see that? Isn't that reflected in the entire operation of hospitals? I'm done with this. More details will be provided by Mr. Xanthos in relation to the arrangements of the bill. I want to stand on two or three other things again so we don't forget. You made a review of our second section of the bill. You say, "But you choose the judges by drawing them." Today are the rapporteur - judges on crisis councils made per hospital? What about now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u84	You don't keep an eye on what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u85	Secondly, I remember the years that I applied to the ESS from 2000 to 2005, when there were crisis councils that were not per hospital - the first specific time, it changed this - but they were per group of hospitals or per sanitary region. Who then defined, ladies and gentlemen, the composition of the boards? It was in accordance with the procedure described by the bill, which the governor says, three coordinators chosen by draw from the specialty of hospitals in the area, the chairman of the scientific board of a hospital, etc.Huh? What happened then? Should we remember? I know what was going on and I lived it in my skin. From the Minister's office the names of the crisis council - either PASOK or New Democracy - were taken out of the office only if you were pilgrimaged. Thirteen applications I made at the ESS and all the second and third ones took me out on those crisis councils, the unaltered, the scientific and I don't know what. So we don't forget how judgments and recruitments were made!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u86	And up there they had you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u87	Do you have the improper, Mr. Economou? What's wrong with you? If we did what you did today, then what would you say? What would you do if we did the corresponding thing? You would say: “SYRIZA builds a party state. He will have his own if he chooses only Syrians to enter hospitals." Wouldn't you say that? Now that you see that this is not the case, you say "A, you will find them". That's not opposition. This is 'curly'. I mean, literally. This is where you don't get it. That's where you don't get it. I can't figure out what you want. The way you're fighting is: We say alpha? You'll say omega. Do we call it omega? You'll say alpha. That's it. And a word to finish, because you reiterated the criticism you made the other day in a business attempt - to say so - the body of hospital doctors in relation to what I said in an interview last week and the way they appeared in some media. Listen to me. I repeat...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u88	Pick 'em up now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u89	Stabilize somewhere, Mr. Economou. Don't move all the time. I repeat that what I said and I do not change it in one word is an analysis that I know you do, because it was the previous social contract. From 1996 to 2004 - I said it again and I will say it again - the parasitic economy spread and became a law of movement for the entire society, the misasa and the black money. That's what happened in hospitals. Nothing was moved if there was no price. And the social contract of that period by which you seconded - either the New Democracy or the PASOK - social consensus on some things was this: I don't pay you on the basis of what you're doing, but I allow you to take part in what you use, material, medicine, reagent, etc. Isn't that what it was? You don't know that? How did EUR 85 billion of money accumulate in the health sector? Like this. That way.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u90	Does Mr Papadopoulos agree with what you're saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u91	Can you not fly, Mr. Economou? Don't you know that? This bankrupt the country and it's obvious. And I said some things. And we're going for another social contract. We're not going to serve yours any other way. And the lower grades of hospital doctors know very well who they are with, who you are and who we are with.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u92	That's right. They know.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u93	We know them, and that's the way it is. There's a percentage of doctors who don't catch them anywhere and in no way. And I appreciate it - and so much is - at 20%. And now I'm only talking about qualified doctors. I'm not talking about residents.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u94	Do you have any evidence?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u95	More than that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u96	He says it's more than that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u97	Decide.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u98	I repeat, he doesn't catch it anywhere in any way. So these people are the ones who supported the system. There's a piece - and you know it and it comes out all the time and we've sent a lot of people lately to the D.A. and we've taken them off their service, etc. - which doesn't touch you if he doesn't catch, which blackmails and which is at the highest grades. And there's a piece in the middle, big, which will be taken if they give it to him. Isn't that the reality? Am I saying anything different from reality? So we say: What we are visionary of is that it does not contain a new version of the way in which you have made the social contract in previous years. We say that the doctor should be rewarded for the value of what he does and he did 15 and twenty years to learn to do so. Therefore, with the exit of the country from the memoranda there must be a drastic increase in the wages and salaries of medical staff in general, which must not need either direct payment by the patients or blackmail it or the contribution of companies in kind or in cash, in order to educate or supplement their income, because the state budget and the insurance funds are ultimately paying them. The overpriced medicines of companies, which were never negotiated in the country, enabled companies to give this "anti-donor" to kind or money to doctors. We don't want that. We want people to be reaped on the basis of what they deserve, to be paid for living and not dead work. In this model, we're going to put our backs on. That is the whole point of criticism. It's not a witch hunt. And right now we've sent many of the big guys where we need to send them and we're waiting to see what justice will do. Our social contract is that there must be a shift of resources from the market in materials, medicines and reagents, which are overpriced, to new recruitments and to the improvement of the rewards of the potential supported by the system, just to have a public health system that provides high quality, timely, effective and free coverage to the Greek population. This is our social contract and you don't twist it with anything and try to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u99	Minister, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u100	In this place, in which perspective you choose and leave the rest now, such as the fact that we look like the previous ones, etc. If we were like the previous ones, we'd be like you, we wouldn't be what we pulled into our lives. We'd have solved our problem differently for years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u101	We're on the list of speakers. Mr. Micheloannakis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u102	It's a little five minutes, Mr. President. There are few speakers. Give them a little more time to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u103	It's an emergency procedure. We have eleven speakers. There will be tolerance. But let us not waste time. Mr. Micholiannakis, you have the floor for six minutes. I put the tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, if this harmonisation was not the case, which we are trying to do today, as the Minister rightly said, we would have a fine of EUR 150 million. We have a given given by the European Court of Justice, which calls on the Greek Republic to make corrections. It is true that in the years of 2015, 2016, we have given more than the budgets, 1,1 billion. We've got about ten thousand five hundred working people, and there's going to be a lot more hired to do. There's approval for two thousand permanent recruitments. Four hundred and fifty of them have already been declared. It's about five hundred places for TLPs. Seven hundred and sixty - four of last year have been proclaimed and they have already taken over four hundred people there. We had the six hundred and sixty old ones, which had been frozen. Of these, about three hundred have been taken over. In other words, there is a package of about three and a half thousand recruitments in progress. In 2014 the amount for the newspapers was 297.5 million, in 2015 they became thirty-five, continued in 2016 and another 10 million in 2017 to cover the 6% newspaper increase with the medical salary, plus 10% increase in nights and exceptionally to the remaining staff for the period, which is the case. So it is about 345 million and 25 million of the closed consolidated hospitals collected by EEAY, a total of about 360 million. With the bill, we ensure forty-eight hours a week for doctors and forensics in 12 hours, instead of 24 hours, a base. There is a daily rest of 11 hours without interruption, a 24-hour weekly rest, a compensatory day off immediately after the on-call or within 14 hours after the limitation or loss of the weekly rest. Newspapers will also be co-ordinating directors, who so far have been receiving benefits. All the other doctors make the active on-call, mixed and readyness. The interns are making the active on-call. There will be a period of transition, as our rapporteur has said, through individual possibilities, which will be excluded from the course of the weekend in the six-hour period. Now, changes in crisis councils are not only made for one purpose, in order to speed up the crises and make them more correct, more excellent. These crisis councils will be five-member, selection councils per sanitary region. It's gonna be about four doctors with a draw. A draw will also be the director of the Scientific Council by the district hospitals. Colleagues will make five applications in their sanitary district, the first and second with a single proposal, as will the third and fourth. The first will be finally classified after they have been heard so that all the methods of correct evaluation can be exhausted. So there's essentially molecules and objections. The wage classification and development is also regulated by a decision of the hospital commander, the health region commander. Flight allowance is regulated in aerospace, the staffing of the Hospital of Karpathos, as the rapporteur said, is regulated by the EESC, the requirements of hospitals are regulated by beneficiaries, the costs of the central service and the surveillance bodies of the Ministry of Health are regulated. So, what do we do with this bill, to be consistent in my time? First, we achieve the extra recruitment, second, the autonomy of TDIs, thirdly the staffing of primary care, and fourthly the reversal of Brain Drain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u105	Thank you very much for the consistency of time, Mr President. I would ask the next speaker, Mr Georgios Bagiona, from the New Democracy, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u106	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I normally had to speak from my position, since the time is six minutes. When it's over eight, then someone goes up to the Step. That's the reality, unless you've changed that. I'm sorry Mr. Paulakis left. But Mr. Blondie will hear me. And I don't just have to say bad things, but good. Mr. Paulakis spent seventeen days in the hospital in 1993. However, there were colleagues who, in 1970 - like the speaker - sat twenty-five days in the hospital and even in August. The speaker there was sleeping, there was eating, that was not worthy of food, because he was unpaid. Watch out for the periods. So now it comes up to say that we have had to cut these hundred millions, because it is a Memorandum obligation. And I ask you, Minister, two, three months ago you brought the TOMYs, which are subsidised. You're getting some money from Europe. Why didn't you bring it, or didn't you know? Since the beginning of 2015, the judgment of the European Court of Justice has been known. I would not like to be paid, but Mr Paulakis has made me an accounting calculation. How are doctors paid all over Europe? You know? Is anyone paid with active or inactive on-calls? It's paid to its degree, there's a rating, a record. He's a manager, he gets that money, he has these obligations. The curator shall be paid accordingly, as shall the assistant and the trainee. In any case, only a few trainees were paid. The unpaid, most of them, like I was, weren't paid. And how they lived, you'll ask me. They lived because they were working at night as doctors at clinics. So, Mr Xanthi, you have a phobia - not to say a disgusting - in the private sector. This place is rich, 30% is private. Dispose of him after abomination if you want us to be honest. So whether we're doing right medicine or not. And because I don't want to go into tiny things, I'll tell you what we have to do. I suggested it to a committee some time ago to you. You are Cretan, you want tourism, you have agricultural products. You need to make use of these. And where does the health fit? Today, if the tourist hasn't secured the health coverage of the area, he doesn't come to the place. You know that Crete has six hundred thousand inhabitants - and if I'm wrong, correct me - but it has about two, two and a half and three million - it's called - in tourist times. Do all the hospitals have to be inspected? Or should a real on-call in normal conditions, though, be on-call with all specialties? You have a university. Therefore, in all regions that have a university - because universities have almost all specialties - they must be inspected by university hospitals. Do they have to keep a hundred and twenty hospitals with plastics and anything else you can imagine on-calls? Change the system! If you don't change the system, you can't go ahead. Above all - especially for Crete - I justify some aerospace on islands, but I do not justify aerospace from Halkidiki. There's an island. If it were an island, I'd justify it, Ammoulian. But a hundred miles from Thessaloniki? Is that all the money they've got? The minimum air stay costs 3,500 euros and 7,000 euros the highest. Look at these things. Therefore, the EMCDDA is necessary. Organize it right! I expected, instead of voting for such bills, a real health bill, in the sense "How much does Crete need?" Do you need two hundred EKAVites, two hundred twenty? Piloting the program to operate for two years, piloted by a newspaper hospital at the lowest population age in Crete and two hospitals at the peak. And Chania Hospital is a big hospital. We must have both in Lassithi and Agios Nikolao. Informing hospitals on a 24-hour basis? Not only 12 to 14 hours a day Use all infrastructures! Health infrastructures are much more than they need. And you make a public-private partnership to earn money. There you'll find the money, you won't find it with the payroll cut on the newspaper doctor. That is epicly unacceptable, in my view. I do not claim infallibility, but I claim right and fair. And you must understand, then, that private individuals are neither pares nor beyond society. They work hard, right, and much cheaper. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u107	Thank you very much Mr. Vagiona. I would ask the next speaker from the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Katsotis, to come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. The Government presents the directive, which incorporates it, as the best solution for organising doctors' working hours. It once again seeks to deceive the workers and the people, presenting the consequences from the very infinite side, as it has done with everything it has done so far, namely the memorials, insurance Katrugalos, labour, tax, seizures and others that have levelled the lives of workers and the people. What need has led to this directive, and to other European Union interventions in order to resolve working hours, not only for medical staff, but for all workers? It is necessary to meet the requirements of monopolistic and business groups to organise working time without the fixed daily commitment and to adapt the hours of daily work on the basis of the needs of the company without any restriction. This directive is brought by the government. It incorporates it and regulates the working time of doctors, overthrowing - and by law now - the fixed daily and weekly working time that is the most important conquest of the labour movement from Chicago still in 1886. Confirmation of our claims is Article 6, which provides for what earlier provisions of the law in force are being repealed. It repeals the provision of the current law, of Law 3754/2009, which provides that for the purposes of establishing the programme of the on-call and smooth operation of hospitals and health centres, tyres and flexible working relationships do not apply. A prerequisite for the settlement is for flexible working hours and flexible working relationships. That is why the government is abolishing the specific commitment of the law. It sets forty-eight hours not as a maximum working week, but as an average weekly work, with a four-month reference period, in accordance with the European Union directive. It establishes the exception clause, the 'opt-out', i.e. the possibility of a weekly working time up to sixty hours. It's supposed to be with the doctor's consent. However, in the circumstances of hospital substation, increased arbitrariness and authoritarianism by administrations and managers, the exotic will become a norm. No one should have any doubts that this will happen. It provides that in the event of a reduction or loss of overtime weekly rest provided for, an equivalent compensatory time shall be granted within the next 14 days, with what this means to the health of doctors. By addressing the on-call - preparedness as non-working time, it puts out the window the implementation of the anti-active and inactive work-time plan. SYRIZA's rapporteur to the committee raised the question: 'The situation with doctors' working hours is improving or not.' The relevant ministers also argue that the bill tackles the problem with doctors' hours of relief and that they have a duty to protect their working rights. We're documenting that the exact opposite is going to happen. The government with the bill legitimises all abuses against workers in health. Now, exhausting hours, even sixty hours, will be applied by the law bogeyman and the substrate will be created for the next step, the further elasticisation of relationships and working time, the further privatization of work with the lives of doctors to get worse. The same will, therefore, happen with the quality of the health services offered to the worsening patients. Really, which doctor with twelve hours of work can last? Is there any need for the doctor to study all the time? What time do you leave him with such exhausting hours? The diagnosis, treatment, intervention and any other service will be the same as the exotic work required by hospital doctors, or the 12-hour work that you establish? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Gentlemen, you come to meet the increased needs due to the major shortages of doctors and nurses with the organization of working time as before 1886. You're ruthless. What else is left to do? You have left nothing for the New Democracy. In every request from business groups you respond very willingly. You've overwhelmed them. They weren't expecting such willingness. The workers, whatever they voted, whatever god they believe, live the consequences of your policy. They are living the consequences of your fair development. They are living the consequences of the best practices of the European Union, the collective expression of big capital. They live the wild tax-paying, the working jungle, the abolition of all rights, which are permanent, stabilised for the capitalist development and profitability of business groups. One-way for workers, the self-employed, the poor farmers is the organization of the struggle to overthrow the anti-grassroots policy and its institutions, to claim the losses they have had over the years of the crisis, for a stable daily working time with one newspaper per week and six hours, for doctors and those who are heavy and unhealthy, with seven hours for all the other workers, for collective contracts with increases in wages, for a better wage of EUR 751, for the restoration of pensions with the abolition of the 'Karougalou' law, and for the rest of the tenth pension, the gift of the holidaymakers. Today's rally on all of this answers, and that's what it claims. It is prepared for a universal response to the measures - a fire which the government is preparing for the third assessment. One thing is certain, the working class will sooner or later scan this barbarity of capitalism and their supports. They will be associated with the JRC to build the new socialist society that will permanently meet the needs of the people. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Thank you for your tolerance, too. The solution given by the Government to the EDPS is in line with the European Union guidelines on a system of predefined contributions rather than benefits. ‘Individual share with an individual account’ shall mean abolishing the characteristics of social security, solidarity, redistributive character and all those creating the safety and decent living of workers. The solution given by the government is in the context of the capitalisation system, as is private insurance. The amendment is not a solution to the EDPS, so we will not vote on it. We call on workers to continue their struggle for a single compulsory, exclusively public and free universal social security system, which will guarantee pensions and all other benefits for all workers, corresponding to the needs. The doctors today respond to the social contract, as Mr Paulakis said, with their strike and demonstration. We welcome their attitude. We call on all workers to strengthen the fight.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u109	Thank you very much Mr Katsotis. I ask the Minister, Mr. Xanthos, to intervene on legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u110	We are putting in a body of legislative changes and improvements. We presented the substance to the committee yesterday. It concerns the removal of Article 14 in order to have a sufficient time to consult the pharmaceutical industry and bring in a commonly agreed proposal for fairer distribution of clawback. Secondly, we are changing the composition of the selection boards of the doctors of the ESS, removing the provision for an ERC management, who participates and is in his position being chaired by a scientific council from the adjacent hospitals, selected by a draw. There is also a change in the issue of the distribution of organic jobs, of the jobs existing in the EDPS, which has been abolished. We include this distribution and the "Attica" hospital, in which some of these workers have already worked and supported their workshops. You'll see them in details. If you want any clarification, we can give it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u111	What I would also like to stress is the point raised by colleagues from the Communist Party on Article 6 and the provision that a provision of No 3754 should be repealed. Ladies and gentlemen, we consider that the wording in the law, 'the regular hours of hospital doctors are seven hours, continuous, morning and five hours, from Monday to Friday, from 08.00 to 15.00', is quite clear and leaves no possibility of misinterpretation of the fact that we are promoting flexible working relationships. In order to avoid the slightest basis of this type of criticism, however, we do not, with legislative improvement, remove this provision for the third paragraph.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u112	Withdrawal?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u113	Withdrawal, of course. It is included in the legislative improvement, so that there is no minimum basis for criticism that here we are trying to get through any type of elasticization of labour relations. Regular hours remain constant and anything beyond that is overtime, which is paid in all its forms.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u114	Thank you very much to the Minister and to the creative intervention in legislative improvement. I would ask Minister Ahchioglu, if she wishes, to intervene on her amendment. Madam Minister, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, you have been distributed an amendment to the EDPS regulations. Some key points to fully understand are the following: First point. The EDPS shall be a legal entity governed by private law providing health care, subsidiary and one-off. Second and very important point. By judgments of the top courts of the country it was recognised that the EDEAP exercises public authority in the field of social security. It works, that is, by substituting a public social security institution. Thirdly, non-legislative, but real. The EMCDDA has an extensive health care network. It has two very important independent health units. He has an extensive network to provide health services. He is particularly concerned about the thousands of uninsured unemployed journalists and their families. It was a political decision of this government to remain alive. It would be completely unreasonable at a time of economic crisis, where the public health system makes huge efforts to stand on its feet, not to do everything possible to keep these units alive, and these health benefits still exist. In fact, we are also in constant contact with the EEA, which aims to enable these units to be opened and to provide health care for the rest of the country's insured. So that was our political decision. In addition, in the last year or so we have been in constant consultation with both sides, with employers and workers, in order to find this solution which would ensure the viability of the fund and the continuity of its operation. Fourth point, very important. With regard to the issue of contributions, the EDEAP was an almost unregulated landscape. Employers' contributions were zero. Most of the media employers paid zero employers' contributions both for health and subsidiary insurance, while in the rest of the world employers' contributions are about 8% and workers' contributions are about 10% for health and ancillary insurance. Therefore, the rules that we are bringing to Parliament today impose the same rules on the contributions that apply to all employers and workers in the country: 2.5% to workers and 4.5% to employers for health, 3.5% and 3.5% to both employers and workers for subsidiary insurance. The same rules for all the insured persons in the country will apply to the insured persons in the EDPS, and most importantly, an employer's contribution is finally introduced, which until yesterday was not in existence. Fifth point, which emerged from extensive consultations over a year and a half now. In order to remain viable, the EDPS needed an additional resource, as its costs, especially in terms of health, were higher than those which could be guaranteed even by the rules of contributions themselves. Therefore, there was extensive consultation between the parties on the introduction of an additional employer contribution, what you see in the amendment as 2% of turnover. An additional 2% of each employer's turnover is therefore established in order to ensure the necessary revenue to maintain the viability of the fund. As I said, there have been extensive consultations, about a year and a half, on the exact amount of this additional contribution. At some point discussions were about an institution close to 4%. Finally, as a balance point, this 2%, which comes with regulations as an additional employer contribution, has become apparent. Yesterday the EESC's statutory general meeting with its vote voted by over 6,100 members and some 92% - decided to amend the Statute. In fact, we are bringing the rules to the House today, which ratify, approve this amendment of the statutes which, by a vast majority, have been decided by the members of the EESC. I think that we are at a fundamental point in the way in which the press operates, without discrimination in the media, without discrimination on the part of employers, without discrimination on the part of professional groups, regardless of the type of instrument, regardless of the origin of workers. Everyone will be governed by the same rules, transparent and equitable, putting an end to syndicate divisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u116	Thank you very much to the Minister. I would ask the Parliamentary Representative of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to take the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u117	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it would be impossible at this political juncture for a parliamentary representative to speak only on the subject of the draft law. The government also helps the parliamentary representatives with the amendments. However, what happens in that country is easy to give the impression that we have a pouch here - the trial of the bouquets, which in a very characteristic and embodied way the late Angelopoulos was showing in his works - that is playing the government. And one cannot tell me that I am overreacting or that I am insulting if my example is the specific legislative procedure. I am at the Conference of Presidents, Minister, where I hear Mr Voutsi saying: 'We urgently bring in a draft law of the Ministry of Health. It went through the Standing Committee - I was there - 'but the Ministry commits that there will be no amendments'. We are opposed to this procedure. We understand whether the Ministry has an urgent need to go through overtime issues, but it has added other amendments. Most of your draft law has other things in it. The rest, at least, could have come with another draft law. Right, wrong, I don't know. You are presenting the President of Parliament. He said there would be no amendments. Your previous colleague explained and presented a major amendment, which is also a draft law. And while we have these, you also withdraw Article 14 for clawback. But I'm going to put myself on the clawback because I had the misfortune to have brought it to the House in 2012 and to remember what the House was saying to me and what I was saying to her. I'll remind you later. But all I'm recording shows how your mind thinks about Parliament. You don't like the House. You despise her. Helmets is left when he hears the President of Parliament committing himself to something and you expose him for the second time. But let's go to the EDEAP, because I want the two ministers of the Ministry of Labour to be here. When we told you in 2016 that it was the wrong regulation, Mr Katrugalos and his colleagues - today present, present and present - you did not object - everything was fine - because it was the wrong line of the fund. It's been a while. It's been months. You abolished a resource of the EDEAP that the journalists had. I have been speaking with knowledge, as a lawyer for many years before I became a politician. I know the organization. You're pulling a headbone on him. You're killing him. The House says to you: 'Don't do that.' You are being spoken to by former ministers who have not accepted these misinterpretations of our lenders, the troika. We were saying no. I, at least in 2010, had all the elements that founded my 'no'. But the next ministers did the same. And your first one. Then comes the rescuer, Mr. Katrugalos. I would like, for at least its political honour, to come here and say 'I'm sorry, I was wrong'. You are now coming to try to salvage this subsidiary fund. Yesterday, about six thousand journalists voted in favour of the arrangement. It's a truth. I have had the opportunity to speak with Mr Athanasios to the first person and without reservations and to tell me that the regulation is good. I had the opportunity, when the decision was made by the journalists, to speak with many of them. There are voices that say that the EDPS died with this arrangement or at least is not assisted. There are others who are sending us amendments, because they are in the right direction, but not the one who has to. What's the problem with us as a opposition party? Our first need and basic, even though it's semimetres, not to ignore them. Why should we ignore them, my dear fellow Member, in view of a better solution - which you are right about - what will remain in everyday life? So, tomorrow morning, what are they gonna do? In all the parties to the opposition, regardless of whether we form the majority, the question arises: Good, we are voting against it. And then what? Tomorrow morning, are we Catrugalis, co-responsible to keep things as Katrugalos shaped them? That's not right. So we'll support. But the question is one. Is resources enough? Can I also have the right as a former Minister of Labour to speak to your minister and tell him about resources and money? I don't have one. I have to be held up. A opposition party that has not carried out governmental work and is not aware of the difficulties, may say so. We can't say it. But we can ask a question. It's real. That is why I do not ask it rhetorically. I'm asking to understand it. You have brought this amendment to night. Mr. Health Minister, if you had done a normal procedure, you would not only have five bodies in dialogue with the institutions. And if this amendment were incorporated, it would also be the people who are concerned about the issue of listening to them. I therefore ask what I should ask the Minister and the institutions, along with the institutions: What is the state tax that is being transferred here to support this subsidiary? I haven't seen him. If you tell me it's the twat, I'll take it. But I have to see him in the setting. If you don't have him, do you have time to add him? If you want to add him, do you have a right to do so? I don't know. I'm not in dialogue. You're in dialogue with the lenders. But anyway, I want you to have this resource, show us. Therefore, our vote somewhere to base an answer to your judges that what they say about the death of the EDPS is probably not entirely so. We give him a breath. That's why we vote. I want to go back to issues that are leaving the Ministry of Education, but it is the present political context. I'll be back in the ministry. We need a Minister to take the floor here and speak to us as PASOK. In the PASOK offices, everything that has never been done has been done in recent years. I'm not saying we didn't have terrorist attacks or attacks in the past. Whoever says that is exposed. But I say that we never had that tension and frequency. And we never had a police officer to tell us he's not allowed to enter a block below to see who's attacked. We see from the news coverage the bullets have hit the height of the head. I mean, it's a murderous attack. Is it right for Maxis' paper to come out the same day and talk about parastate? You're the state. What's your para-state? Secondly, is it right to speak of provocation, my own, to hide the Paradise Papers, as if there were no next day? Who says this nonsense, where your MPs come out the next day and they support it? Fortunately, the aftermath some came out and took a distance and honours them. Who says that nonsense, that the terrorists wanted to hide the Paradise Papers? The events with the so-called representative of Saudi Arabia did not want to hide them, which was not played on the news that night why did terrorism prevail? The next day it all came out. And today we submitted a certificate showing that this company's last loss balance was submitted in 2013 and published in the FEK in 2014. Since then, no one. What are you talking about? Who's hiding the truth? She hid one night in the bulletins? He'll play the next day! But it was a method of your defense. Are you willing to take measures? MEP George Arvanitides of the DESY Parliamentary Group, because he was a guardian - I'm not joking - was blocked and molotov didn't fall on him. He was gonna burn him down a year and a half ago. Isn't that what woke you up? They should have woken you. Let's get back to health now. Ladies and gentlemen, it has attempted to be amended by Article 14 of the law which is here today, to extend, not to reduce, so-called lowback, i.e. to bite bitumen, overheads, health expenditure. I had had the regulation in March 2012 on this matter. It was one of the measures I had taken the most unfair, because it said with closed eyes "so much money I have for medicines, what is prescribed I don't pay them." But that medicine was rightly prescribed, but that's not. How about fairness and unfairness? Yeah, because there wasn't any money. And I promised the protesting MPs, first Leonida Gregorakos, Professor Leonidas Gregorakos and my partner, who are today at the National Representation, that this is for two or three years, to cover our deficits, to strike horizontally because we did not have the chance to do so and we will abolish it. You, the so-called left, have been broadening it to other forms of service, and today you are raising it. And after you do that, Mr. Xanthi, you get it back.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u118	How do we raise it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u119	You got it back...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u120	You don't understand anything, Mr. Loverdos!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u121	If you did not cause damage and did not cause reactions, you would not take it back. You took it back and you're guilty of this mess that concerns you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u122	You've been a Minister of Health and you've never understood anything!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u123	Or you bring it because it is right and it does not create problems and you are defending it and we tell you that miserablely or well, you will judge it, but the House and the people and the people concerned. Either it's like that or it's wrong, because it's causing problems for people who are protesting and folding. It can't both be. The logic does not allow both of them to be applied. Last item. It's about the economy. I address myself to 'friends of the people'. How can ELSTAT, the valid ELSTAT now, which we are all respecting since 2010, give a differentiation in the relationship between direct and indirect taxes against direct taxes and be left? How for the first time after 2010 to change the balance, ELSTAT tells you this. How can this be done, and at the same time be people's friends, when the indirect taxes - are being commemorated here, there is no one to say otherwise - are unfair taxes? And I close, ladies and gentlemen, with an issue concerning the so-called principle of the bill, which has to do with overtime in our hospitals. Mr. Barnabas, where is he? Do you have him with you? Does it help you? There was no breakfast, ladies and gentlemen, which was not poisoning the previous ministers, to deny everything, along with those who denounce you today. I saw the faces. I don't know all the names, but I saw yesterday and today on the TVs denounce you. Many times my faces said that what they say is unfair and against you. But many times my faces reminded me of Mr Barnabas and his companions. Maybe you too, but in other cities. For you, I have no objections, I have a video to call 'Down the Lover Junta'. I never told you junta, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u124	Down with the Loverde junta?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u125	Of course, you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u126	Did I yell at it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u127	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u128	You're a liar consciously.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u129	All right, all right. I've got a video. The whole world's seen it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u130	You're a liar, that's what you are.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u131	Sit down and watch your words. The video has been seen all over the world and has seen you take the hose from the MATs and turn it against the civilians. And that's what people have seen in the same video.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u132	The video people have seen is spraying in a protest...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u133	I, a liar, didn't tell you. I criticize you and learn to listen to it. Where do you have Mr. Barnabas?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u134	...with the hospital in Chania.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u135	Tell us where you have Mr. Barnabas?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u136	Mr. Loverdo...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u137	Ladies and gentlemen, you who vote should have assured you that the way in which overtime is being arranged due to a lack of staff does not necessarily lead to the merger of hospitals for which you are shouting. Let you assure you about this and then vote for what you are voting on. So you, led by Mr. Barnabas, where are you hiding him today? Where have you hidden him today?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u138	Mr. Barnabas has made a statement. It should be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u139	I say: I say, your companions do not hide them, do not be ashamed of them, have them on the front line as they were. No more one day and the other, depending on whether we rule. So I say: is it possible to come out under the present conditions and a more human arrangement of issues relating to doctors' overtime - which is often barbaric, is that correct - but also the arithmetic state and capabilities of the ERC at the moment? In the morning when I was in a hospital and I was asking, that contradiction occurred to me. Unless the three-year-old is the ball in the crate. You should explain that. If the ratio of claims, as will be arranged, existing structures and existing staff may lead to the implementation of this arrangement. If not, we have a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u140	Dear Mr. Loverdo, please...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u141	And on this big subject, please give you full explanations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u142	Thank you very much. Mrs Ahchioglu has asked for the floor to make an intervention. Here, Mrs. Ahchioglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u143	I would like to say that Mr Loverdes referred to the abolition of the ad as a political initiative of our own government. In April 2014, the Commission publishes the document on the fourth assessment of the second financial adjustment programme. In its paper, which is public - and I will put it out in the Minutes - it says that the government at the time is committed to legislating to abolishing all the social resources that finance basic pensions, all the social resources that finance supplementary pensions, as well as the abolition of all the resources that include advertising social resources. To legislate until November 2014 the abolition of the ad. Clearly, clearly, in the Commission's documents, the evaluation of the programme. [[At this point, Minister Efi Ahtsoglou submits for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] It was a commitment of your own government, the ones you made and then the ones we then carried, trying to have conversations with lenders. These are in connection with the restoration of the truth about the ad. With regard to the state resource you are looking to find in the regulation and you do not find it, no one said that there was a state resource in the rescue arrangement of the EDEA. Nobody said that. What we have said and for which there is an agreement that was confirmed by 92% of the voters yesterday, was an additional 2% employer contribution to ensure the viability of the fund. There is no state resource in the legislation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u145	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u146	No, no, I'm going to go to the speakers so we won't be late.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u147	Mr President, I would like to clarify something about the amendment because I may not have read it correctly. Minister, the contributions for workers with the new regulation of the amendment will apply from 1-1-2017 retrospectively and for employers from October 2017, unless I read something wrong. Can you explain it to me, please, if there's time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u148	Thank you. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u149	The contributions, which are all the same now - employers and workers - will apply from 1-1-2017. The additional resource, the 2% surcharge on the turnover, will be from October onwards. I think it makes sense for a weighting of interests not to retroactively impose this extra burden.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u150	Mr. Igoumenides, please, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have followed with interest and, in some cases, dismayed the debate in the committees before the debate in plenary today. Apparently, there are people, there are executives, who cannot escape the rotten political establishment that led the country to the rocks. They are a picture and a uniformity of this system and they have transferred this image to the debate in the House. I have in mind first and foremost the so-called representative of the Athens Medical Association. Apart from the dust that artificially rises with your interventions, in order to hide the nakedness of your policy - and we will come to it shortly after that, colleagues of the New Democracy - your main argument is that the workers in hospitals are in a good state of work and you, the SYRIZA incapacitated, have a law with which you dismantle the work relations and put a bomb on the foundations of the public health system. In this respect, I have three questions to raise. Asked first: Does anyone seriously believe that the New Democracy, as its Vice-President said, and then the Minister for Health, "if we had no troika, should invent it", the New Democracy, that is, who uses any of the country's Memorandum obligations and commitments to implement its policy against the public health system, is interested in the public health system? Before the second question, I'm going to make a little report. We have repeatedly stated that the public health system, despite its attack, mainly between 2010 and 2014, was based on the honesty and self-determination of workers, who literally, I would say by bleeding under poor conditions, tried to support the system. I lived with colleagues, people from nursing staff and the rest of the staff, due to thousands of hours off. I have lived with colleagues from so-called 'other staff' who, because we had shortcomings in the health system, could not get permission. Not only to talk about these, to take you back thirty years. 1989 opens the health center in my village. Once the health centre opens, it is prohibited to close, not for a second. I can't imagine anyone questioning it. The newspapers in August of '89 show a name: Christofordides, Christoforides, Christofordis. I'll submit it to the Minutes. The white lines were erased by the administration of the "Venezelio" to which the health centre was then subject. Thirty days the doctor was there. In August of '89 I was appointed, and so the September newspapers came out. Two names are given: Christophorides, Igoumenides. The white lines have been erased by the administration. It doesn't mean he was closing down the Health Center. The same thing exists in October and we arrived in November, where we do not have a white line, but we do not have a second name everywhere - the administration would fade away again. Thirty days we were in the health center. We obviously didn't get paid, beyond everything else. [[At this point the Member, Mr Nikolaos Igoumenides, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I'm leaving the primary school, I started a specialty, and I worked at "PANGNI", as a cardiologist. There were days, weeks - the pluralist didn't miss me - where I was leaving on Monday morning for the hospital for the papers, going home on Tuesday afternoon. I was on Wednesday, leaving Wednesday at the hospital for the papers. I was coming home on Thursday afternoon to sleep. Monday to Friday noon, when did I go home? Tuesday and Thursday afternoon to sleep. Were these furious conditions or not? And I wasn't the only one. We were a number of colleagues, who really had made our home a second home, being the first house in the hospital. Because it didn't work out. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Please, your tolerance, Mr President. I won't be too late. One can hear that there is a hemodynamic laboratory at "PAGNI", which covers Crete and the South Aegean, but we were three or four doctors. Is there any chance there might be an on-call? All of them were resurrected. Is there any chance that there will be a day from Crete and the South Aegean without a heart attack? Let me make it quite clear: we have never been bored for this activity and for this offer to the public health system. In these circumstances - I give a parentheses - we suggested that the inhabitants of Chania should not be troubled, that we should go to Chania to make coronaries to the respective citizens of the county of Chania. Why did we suggest it? Because in the basement of the hospital there was a "SIEMENS" machine for coronaries purchased by your own administrations, better than the machine we had at "PANGNE" and was unusable. Is it accidental that Chania' haemodynamics opened two months ago? There was a colleague on his way to Chania and he was checking the number of patients in the stall. Mr Chrysostomakis from his cardiological "PAGNI" at his own expense, at his own expense, which, at any time, had to be apologized for having been unjustly absent from his service in "PAGNI". I repeat that no doctor from the examples I mentioned did get bored about his offer. Were they conditions of the altar? And now I come to the second question: When did you talk about these conditions? You could easily fool someone and say: we talked, but you didn't hear them, because you and your colleagues were working. But you have never spoken - and I say this with this confidence - because you do not have a political interest in the quality of the life of the workers in the public health system. I also come to the third question, with which I shall close, Mr President. Leave '89 and go eight years ahead, in 1997. Since then, the hourly adjustment directive has come. What have you been doing since '97? Besides talking about doctors' working conditions, what do you propose about changing, adjusting the working hours and the working relationships of doctors? Bad lies, gentlemen of the New Democracy. Whatever theme of health, whatever theme of health, beneath your voices, hides the nakedness of your politics. I cannot see a solution to this, except in the context of an overall effort to support the public health system. You fight this effort and you undermine it. I cannot see a solution to the issue of doctors' working hours cut off from aid with a public health system potential, an aid that the practice of redundancies shows how much you want it. Here, we are with the workers and possible concerns or objections to discuss them and heal them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u152	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Mr Spyridon-Adonis Georgiadis has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, my colleague, Mr Igoumenides, said: "The proof of who you were is the saying of your Vice-President" - I imagine you referred to me - "that if there was no memorandum, we should invent it." So, didn't it, Minister, Mr. Igoumenides? I show it to you, although it's easy with a simple search at "GOOGLE" to find it yourself, but you're not very strong at them: "Symrelis: And if there wasn't a memorandum, we should invent it." Do you know Mr. Simorellis? Have any of you met him? He's a congressman here at SYRIZA. Mr. Igoumenidis, I'm sorry if you are disturbed by the saying of Vice-President of the New Democracy, Mr. Georgiadis, but can you seriously explain why Mr. Simorellis' saying is not bothering you? And if my saying means that we were these bad people you described, then Mr. Simerelis's saying what he says about you, Mr. Igoumenides? You're turning your head down now and you're smiling, because we've caught you from telling a skyless nonsense to Parliament. And it's good that we got you. Do you know why? Why are you, ladies and gentlemen, the memoranda of the memorandum? Because Mr. Paulakis has arrived on my birthday wishing me to go and kill myself, because the German "Handelsblatt" wrote in the first paragraph five good words about the SYRIZA Government. Of course, in the last paragraph of the article - you did not read - it said that, unfortunately, it will not succeed in getting Greece out of the memorandum, but I am passing it. I prefer to stay in the first paragraph and the joy of Mr Polakis that the Germans say good words about the SYRIZA Government. Warm congratulations! I like this Paulis very much, and he wished me to go and kill myself! It doesn't remind me of that old Polakis who would put his body in front to save the airport of Chania. This was the old Paulakis who went along with the big "no" and chickens, if you remember. Now he is the new Paulis who reads "Handelsblatt" and rejoices about the good words of Shoeble. So let's go to the bill. Mr Polakis, a memorial tomb, like myself, a colleague in the memorial to say otherwise, can you imagine the Minister of Health - I am not saying Adonis Georgiadis, but Macis Vorides - today's directive in this House and being GENGE and EIAP opposite, as they are today? Now seriously and truly, Mr Papadopoulos, where do you think Xanthos and Paulakis would be by applying the Community directive that we are discussing and with such passion, are you defending or with OENGE and INAP? Like where do you think it was? It seems to me that it was with the European directive, however. And that's good! I like you coming to power and screwing your mind. That's good. Because this whole SYRIZA talk is a very useful debate. Why does this conversation mean? That the previous SYRIZA was immature, that is stupid. That will say 'immature'. If now SYRIZA grows - and you say that as good - it means you accept that all your previous course was the course to nonsense. And that's good to admit, that's useful for the left's fight ideological hegemony. Now let's go to Article 14. Article 14 is of great interest. I'm glad you withdrew it. Generally with regard to clawback, a law reminding me that then SYRIZA - the immature, i.e. the fool - had voted against, and even committed to all the tones and in all ways that you would abolish it when you came to power - all right, you said a word more, not the world - the problem is that your clawback has completely escaped. There was never such a big clawback in Greece in the past. First of all, to make it clear, we never set up a hospital clawback. I had denied it from the troika. I think it is a very big reformist mistake. The clawback outside - hospital pressures the market to adjust. The clawback endo - hospital pressures hospital administrators and doctors to write expensive drugs because they have no responsibility. So it's the wrong measure. In any case, because you have not implemented any structural measures so far, I was on a show with Mr Papadopoulos, as I now remember, at 'Action 24'. Do you remember that? You were committed that by June 2017 the patient's electronic file, registries and therapeutic protocols will have been applied. Do you remember them? Do you know what has been applied by all of this to date? A quilt! Don't tell you how you feel, Mr Papadopoulos, as a MP you went to TV and said, "I commit that by June these reforms will have been implemented" and you come today and you vote for the article on clawback because they have not implemented any reform. Leave it because we're in Parliament! So I'm coming back. Nothing has been done with structural measures. You missed the clawback. He's gone to God. But what did you go to do today? And you did it in a hurry. You got it back. You did well. This morning, we had a court of law with Vaxebane, because he had made a headline to me saying he'd make a little gift at "NOVARTIS". The great Vaxeban, the brave, came to court and, of course, asked for a postponement. The court gave him a one-month postponement. He'll be back in a month. He's not getting away with it. I wonder if, on Sunday, Costas Vaxevanis will write - to show his objectivity - that today you have gone to make a gift of 70 million to the multinationals, which you are fighting for. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Because you know very well that what you withdrew carried 60 to 70 million million a year from the clawback of Law3816 to the rest of the market. That's what you did.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u154	Including multinationals.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u155	3816 is basically multinational. 99% are multinationals. The Greeks don't go to 3816.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u156	1,945 billion isn't the multinationals involved?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u157	The 3816 I referred to, the high-cost drugs are...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u158	Mr. Georgiades, don't say things that don't apply.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u159	Don't interrupt me and don't get upset. Let the Greek people listen to which companies you went to make a present today: 'NOVARTIS', 'ROCHE', which Paulis is supposed to fight, at 'GLAXO', to 'PFIZER'. That's the size of companies we're talking about. These companies today went to pick up a 60 million present from you. You got it back. We'll see the following. I close with Article 5 that you have done for the mandatory application of clawback for '13. So that you don't play great with us, Mr. Xanthi and Mr. Polakis - because I'm watching health from a professional perversion - I'm going to tell you what you did for the Greek people to know! You have asked all providers to sign a statement that they are relinquished by all legal means against clawback to pay them. Providers have not "sucked" according to the commonly called and now you are doing so by law and you are paying them to keep this right to go to the courts for clawback. So, what does your article actually do? You're coming to retreat to the pressure of those who didn't sign. That's what happened! Because in the statements you're like Richard the Lionheart, you come to the House with the arrangements I mentioned. I close by addressing Mr. Contonis. I would like your tolerance for seconds, Mr President. Yesterday there was a public dispute. I did not find the truth, as you charged me, of the question of whether the killer of this unfortunate woman with the law of Friday, the woman who was killed, the Dora, came to the cemetery. But you've rushed all SYRIZA to charge it to me. No objections! I accept all the arrows. He wrote it all over the internet. It's known that it's all the fault of Adonis. But I have one question, because I must admit that since yesterday I have been looking for it very much. And it seems to me, Minister of Justice - I hope I am mistaken - that you have made a very drunken and clever deception of Parliament. Your announcement states that this killer met the conditions for release with Mr. Paraskevi's oldest law. Yeah, he paid them. The oldest law, however, presupposed a decision of the Plenipotentiary Council. If there is no decision of the Plenipotentiaries Council and the Plenipotentiaries came out automatically, then even though they met the conditions of the previous law, he came out with the Act of Friday.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u160	It's typical.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u161	No, that's not typical. It's not typical at all. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Therefore, there is no decision of the Council of Elections. Now we've come to an understanding. Therefore, the murderer of the Dora - to hear the Greek people - admittedly Mr. Kontonis - for formal reasons said Mr. Kontonis - went out of prison because of the Law of Paradise. He could have left the prison if he had gone to the Cabinet Council, which he did not go to. And it didn't go because you had passed the Law of Friday. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Thus, "fake news" was the announcement of the Grand Maximos and not the announcement of the Vice President of the New Democracy. Yes, sir! That's great!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u162	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u163	And since you're here, because for Kufontina, he'll talk to another better than me, I'd like to say something else. A few days ago Mr. Paraskevi made a public appeal here from Parliament's channel. It's not one of the "bothcanna" things Paulakis said. It was Parliament's channel. Yes, sir. What did he say? Listen to the phrase'mot a mot'. Video there is: “Mitsotakis is right. My law must be abolished.' That's Mr. Paradise. Go ask him. Mr. Kontonis, since the former Minister of Justice told you that Mr.Mitsotakis is right, you are not taking an initiative - while you were telling us until last week that you will be extending the Law of Friday and you will take him over longer and you will also bring new, more discongestive, that is what Mr. Paratopoulos said backwards and said that Mr. At least recognize, Minister. You may have had the best of intentions with the Law of Friday. I accept that you have had the best of intent. I do not believe it, of course, for reasons of rhetoric, to make it clear. For ideological reasons you have done so, but at least recognize that there have been real tragedies by this law.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u164	Mr. Georgiadis, please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u165	There have been real crimes from this law and the time has come to ask for a great apologies to the Greek people for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u166	Mr Loverdos, as a parliamentary representative, has asked for a question. [[Protests in the Chamber]] Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u167	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u168	Then Mr. Kontonis and Mr. Paradise have asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u169	Mr President, it's personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u170	Mr Colleague, I would like to ask one question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u171	To ask a question, Mr. Loverdos, and to close the matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u172	Not half a second, Mr President. As the amendment, Mrs Ahtsoglou, has come, it does not allow dialogue or a hearing of bodies. We therefore exchange political arguments. The fact is that the abolition of the ad has been made by you. The truth doesn't change. Now let's go see how we can help resolve this. If we had had had a dialogue, a parliamentary debate, we would have asked you: 'Have you had a proportionate study?' If you do not have, how can you oppose my argument that these things do not come out with these resources? Go get a half million while you need sixty. If it's true what I'm saying - I wish it wasn't, but we ask and we agree and we talk, we talk with them first - have you found a solution for that if it comes to you in two months? Or will you come back to the House again asking for an amendment and supported by your Members, who, whatever you say, are voting on it? And second question, have you thought that with what you're doing, especially for those who are honest and who pay contributions, which extend their obligation to pay contributions, that they may go to make redundancies or wage reductions? Have you found a way to split the damage? This is a real question and I summarise it: What does this study show you? Another study, even deeds...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u173	Mr. Loverdo, please close.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u174	And, secondly, have you been consulted on an equitable allocation of expenditure?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u175	Mr Igoumenidis has the floor on personal grounds, then he is the Minister, and then Mr. Paradoxopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u176	Mr. President, may I answer first?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u177	Please respond.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u178	As a question has been raised, Mr Loverdo, I would like to say that it is a debate that has been taking place over a year now between the stakeholders involved in the ERCEA, employers and workers. If I am not mistaken, more than fifteen meetings have been held and practically held in most of them. They had agreed, on the basis of this debate, how to determine the relevant expenditure that needs to be covered. There was a premeditation. It was commissioned by common accord to a company - I do not remember what and it makes no sense to mention - and then an exhaustive, detailed study was carried out. That's what's happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u179	Why didn't you bring them to us?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u180	I'll explain.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u181	Mr. Loverdo, please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u182	As we have said, it is a case - and because you have invoked your legal status - which has previously involved you with the issues of the EDPS. Therefore, you know that by law it is a specific legal person that operates, which is neither a union nor a legal person governed by public law. It has a law specificity and the law defines precisely the conditions under which the EDPS operates. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] It states by amending its statutes, in accordance with the provisions laid down for amending the statutes, that the relevant issues of contributions are defined, all relevant issues laid down in the Statute of the EESC. And that's what happened. Yesterday the process was completed, and that is why we were serving until the same procedure as the law stipulates for the relevant issues of the EDPS, that the stakeholders themselves should decide what is, according to the law, to happen. I am presenting for the Minutes of the Statute of the General Assembly with the results of the vote on the amendment to the Statute of the Agency. [[At this point the Deputy Minister, Mr Anastasios Petropoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The procedure was followed, as provided for in the founding Law of the EDEA, and the procedure was completed. What has been defined by employers and workers in the framework of their own agreements has been respected.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u183	Does everyone agree on that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u184	Of course, this framework was agreed during the negotiations and was reflected in the studies in question. We came by law to ratify what the founding law provided for as a procedure. The interested parties themselves have voted in a celebratory manner. I think that no one has any doubts and it is not possible in this Chamber to contradict it, when six thousand and twenty-five votes out of ten thousand and when about 93% of the participants voted for this framework. I imagine that the same goes for the New Democracy, which has not been placed at present. Yesterday Mr Brutsis said things, they cost the employers and we didn't ask them. There's such an interest. Sometimes it's declared in a cryptic manner, sometimes cowardly. I imagine you're not in that regard. After all, you will vote and the New Democracy will vote, as the New Democracy has announced. It is a commitment resulting from the law, which has been respected for so many years by the New Democracy itself. That is the answer in total. We are not intervening and have not intervened - and that is why we have proceeded with this procedure - on the relevant issues that the founding law of the EDPS has set out.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u185	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Igoumenides has asked for the floor on staff. Mr. Kontonis and Mr. Paramadopoulos also have the floor. Here, Mr. Igoumenides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Mr President. I wanted to say that, first of all, the Left - and it has signed these positions with its struggles - has been committed to a public health system that will ensure every citizen who needs whatever health services he needs, without...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u187	On staff, Mr. Comrade. Tell us the staff!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u188	I'll be done in a minute. I'd be done if...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u189	But if you were done, you wouldn't have said the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u190	Mr. Fotella, please. Please finish, Mr. Igoumenides.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u191	Our difference, therefore, is that we are in favour of such a health system that provides health services without discerning citizens in the economic situation, in the color of the skin, or in nationality. On the contrary, it is New Democracy's policy, which declares economic policy...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u192	That's an order!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u193	Is that personal now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u194	Let me finish. It's annoying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u195	I don't see any personal matter. We don't recognize it. The main ministers are waiting to speak. Please, colleagues of the New Democracy, I run the debate. They expect the Ministers, because there is a serious issue that has been raised.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u196	I'd be done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u197	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u198	So here's the difference. I know the route, and we all know the route in here. I honour the route of all my colleagues to the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. I remember it wasn't the first time Mr. Georgiadis used his phone and pictures of his phone. Finally, I don't get a party back from my speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u199	Thank you very much. Mr. Paraskevi has the floor if Mr. Kontonis does not object.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, Mr President. The targeting, which Mr Georgiadis has previously attempted in my face, is not a new phenomenon at all. As you all know, for days I have been targeting myself in the most violent, brutal way as the man who has painted his hands with blood and so on. With patience, I will explain again how things are going to happen. Let me tell you that since 2005, our country has had decongested laws and that under decongested laws it has become all redundancies since 2005. Unfortunately, in our country, as in all the countries of the world, as in all times and all continents, there is a recurring crime. The fact that there is a relapse does not mean that it is the law on redundancies. The unprecedented here are two: one is that in the last few years, crime - heavy and even homicide - has been reduced. If, therefore, an effect can be attributed - although it is indirect, so it is not right - to release arrangements, because a share of crime is also secondary, this is the effect of reducing even the number of homicides. I think it is clear that, at a time when crime is unfortunately, there is - and secondaryly there is - the isolation of the most disgusting or inexperienced cases and their performance on a person alone is not just populism, but on my part, I believe that it is a criminal behaviour of slandering on a continuing basis, totally unfounded, which I believe will begin to be understood.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u201	Thank you very much, Mr Paradise.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u202	Mr President, could I have the floor for an intervention?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u203	Mr Contonis has the floor to make an intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, Mr President. I would expect Mr. Georgiadis, after the "cazo" with his cell phone and the appearance of various as government ministers on SKAI TV, to be a little more careful when he comes to Parliament with his cell phone and when he makes revelations. To put things in place, ladies and gentlemen, let's say that SYRIZA had not been elected a government and had not taken the measures to disarm the prisons with the two legislative initiatives of 2015 and 2016. It would be true what you voted on since 2005, and of course the provision of Article 105 et seq. of the Criminal Code, which has been in force since 1950, would apply. I see, Mr. Georgiadis, that you are also consulting your legal counsel, Mr. Vorides.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u205	Always!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u206	Interesting! It's good to come to the House with your attorney! I would therefore like to say this: let us say that there was no SYRIZA nor decongestive laws. Would this convicted person have left the prison after the secondary court?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u207	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u208	We don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u209	He would have gone out because...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u210	Ladies and gentlemen, please do not have a debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u211	Don't do smart things that have no basis. Any body competent to decide would find that the prisoner concerned had served three fifths of the sentence provided for in Article 105 et seq. of the Criminal Code and would have been released. I repeat, the crisis is...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u212	Is Article 105 additional to be applied? It personalizes the crisis...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u213	He individualizes and makes statements, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u214	I don't think...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u215	Oh, no. This is where you're wrong. When it is established by the institution that someone has completed three fifths of his sentence, as foreseen by the law, he will be released. Now, I honestly tell you that the agency informed me here that the defendant had served three fifths of the sentence, i.e. six years actually and three years of plastics because he had executed more than a thousand days in prisons. He therefore met the conditions of the law to be released. I sincerely say to you, I do not know which provision was in force, whether the major one was or not, because if the major one were to apply, that is, what I am saying to you, much more was the case and that was the case. This one was released. But the important thing is to tell the Greek society that these prisoners, whether there were the laws of Paradise, or the SYRIZA government, would have been out of prison, because the Criminal Code has provided for this since 1950. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] So that's what the pharmacopoeia sows in Greek society and you tell them "SYRIZA releases criminals" while you know it. Here is the treacherous of your allegations, namely that these prisoners would soon or at the same time come out because they fulfilled the conditions of the law, which has been in force since 1950.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u216	Why didn't you change him?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u217	We haven't changed anything at all. That is what I wanted to say on the issue of release, so that we can reach agreement. I, Mr Georgiadis, want in this Chamber, even when we disagree, to agree on where the disagreement lies. You said that in a letter from you in the "Preservers' Newspaper", when you were charged with the participation of the former monarch in the anti-trial struggle. I wanted, since the conversation brought it, because you blamed Mr. Paradoxopoulos, to tell you that you, Mr. Georgiadis, again on the Parliament's legal identity channel, made the following reference. You said that the government majority had legislated, but also other parties that do not belong to the government majority, 15 years to go to the JEP and with a statement to change gender. That's what you said on the channel of Parliament, Mr. Georgiadis. So I want to tell you that the right thing is to agree, even when we disagree, to know where the disagreement is. In this particular matter, then, we agree that this prisoner had served, not the Fridays provided for by the Law, but by the Criminal Code, Article 105 next, which has been in force since 1950, three fifths of the sentence and therefore his release was certain. The second thing I would like to say is that Mr Georgiadis, you have referred to something that Mr Paradise has said. Mr Paradoxopoulos said in the House and defended something, which I too said in the debate on the specific provision that we discussed in September on the decongestion of prisons. He said that these laws are exceptional laws and have, on the one hand, limited time force, that is to say, for a year, and if the problem of prison overpopulation persists, they have to be extended again for a short period of time. In any case, they are not permanent laws, and at some point they will stop having such laws, which, you have the paternity, because you have brought them to Parliament for the first time to deal with the problem of overpopulation in prisons. You know it, too, if you don't know it. Let the Greek people know. I said, then, that, on the basis of the overall picture we have today in prisons and the serious reforms that will be made with the new Criminal Code and the new Code of Criminal Procedure, we hope - I, too, express the certainty, not to say the certainty, well-founded speculation - that there will be no need for any other decongested law to come to Parliament because the positions of the prisoners have been increased in the last period and the situation in prison has been normalized and the number of detainees is completely managed. If there's a problem, we'll deal with it. In August this year. But, Mr Georgiadis, if I have understood correctly, you have also asked today - and Mr Mitsotakis has asked for it - that the Act of Paradise should be abolished. You're referring to the arrangement of decongestion. But don't you know that either you or Mr. Mitsotakis that this provision ended on 31 August of this year 2017? Do you not know that in September we voted for a new provision, which has several differentiations from the previous one, why did we have the possibility of limiting too many offences and putting further insurance barriers? You don't know that? And we call for the Qualified Opposition to abolish a law, a provision, which has been abolished and we have voted for new ones! But you live in this world? Do you live in this Parliament? Where have you finally been?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u218	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u219	Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u220	Mr Georgiadis, you will do me a favor for two seconds, because it is the schools and they must leave - they are here for a long time because of the debate - to make the announcements. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the educational programme: "We are investigating and discussing Governor Ioannis Kapodistrias", who is organizing the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-seven students and students and two educational attendants from the American College of Athens. We welcome you guys. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] It's interesting today's debate. Also, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-five students and students and three educational attendants from the 6th Municipal School of Pyrgos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor. I imagine you're asking him on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u221	Yes, Mr President, but I will not speak for more than a minute. Mr. Kontonis, I really understood you as well from the talks about the Yannousaki-Kammen talks. You're a terrible theatre, in a good way. You'll be really good at court. I admit it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u222	Mr. Georgiadis, please be careful of your words.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u223	I say it in a good way. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Listen to why. With a veil, Mr President, he said: "But Mr Georgiadis and Mr Mitsotakis have asked for the law of Paradise to be abolished and they do not know that the law has expired?" You said it - I felt you - with just wrath. Here, the problem is that I used the word of Mr Paraskevi, who said that the Act of Friday must be abolished. So if Mitsotakis and Georgiadis hadn't known, how would they know, Mr. President, since they didn't know about it either? So obviously, Minister, what you said was a good rhetorical trick, but, because I told you that Paradoxopoulos said that "Mitsotakis is right, my law must be abolished", take one phone to get an understanding instead of playing the theatre in the House. Secondly, I imagine, because I made a mistake to SKAI, which I corrected myself, because I didn't happen to know Mr. Baptsis, you won't forbid me from using google as well. Isn't that right? I, therefore, referred to a real incident by Mr Simorellis, who on behalf of SYRIZA that if the memorandum was not there, we should have invented it. So leave the plates to me. Third and last. Minister, because you will ask for the floor, I would like to speak a little politely. One question I'm going to ask you, and I want a populist answer, not the theater. The Dora Killer of what law did he use to release him, the Paradise Law, or the previous one? If he has used the previous one you mentioned, you will present to us today in the House a copy of the decision of the Plenipotentiary Council which, under the previous law, gave him permission to leave prison. Because what you didn't say is that the previous law...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u224	The Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u225	The Criminal Code, Mr. Minister of Health, indeed, which provided for a decision of the Council of Plenipotentiaries, why? Because it was not automatic release, as in the Decongestion Act, but it was personalized. That's where the board could say he stays dangerous and doesn't come out. While using the Law of Paradise, it came directly, automatically, without any Council of Internships. So I ask you, but I need a phrase to tell me. Is there a Council decision or is there? If there is, he went with the previous one. If there's no, go with the Friday. That's what we want you to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u226	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that we do not falsify what is being heard. Indeed, Mr Paradoxopoulos had made a statement. But this statement - the man said it - meant it and justified it on the basis of what I told you in the House. But you're not watching them. We told you that decongestive laws are extraordinary laws, which will eventually cease to apply. You started them, New Democracy. And, of course, because the situation had come to nothing further, with twelve thousand prisoners, the government had taken some steps to prevent the Greek state from paying fines and convictions and being a rapist internationally. So what the man told you was self-evident. We've said that too. So he said that these laws will eventually cease to exist. I told you a month ago in the House - I tell you today - that under these circumstances other decongestive laws will not come to Parliament. Because the number of detainees is completely managed right now. But if a question arises, we will look into it and recommend it to the House accordingly. So we made that clear? Mr. Paradise very well said it. It is good that you do not submit requests, which have nothing to do with the reality of a law that has been repealed and adopted other than 20 September. Secondly: Mr Georgiadis, you are coming back to an issue which is of minor importance. I've told you and I'm stressing it. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] It is an extreme hypocrisy to wish here to say that a man, a prisoner, who fell when he was released into a new offence - as is the case on several occasions, even in states that have no decongested laws, are returning to crime - that it is the responsibility of a law that the government has passed. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] So I say to you again, Mr Georgiadis, because I see that you are talking, the very simple thing: be honest with you and your party. Tell the Greek people that, whether there was or not the Act of Friday, this man would have come out the same day because he met the conditions of Article 105 of the Criminal Code.... [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] That is the reality with which you cannot compromise. You're lying to the Greek people. Sow the fear, sow the poison of this condition. It won't pass. The truth will shine. And the truth is that this prisoner would have been fired in any case after having served three fifths of his sentence. Whether you understand it or don't understand it, that's the truth, that's the reality. Conflict with reality. You'll break your head once more!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u228	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u229	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u230	Mr. Friday, why?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u231	On staff, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u232	There isn't. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Please, ladies and gentlemen. It's a very serious matter. Mr. Paraskevi, here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u233	Thank you, Mr President. Because Mr. Georgiadis is a great theatrin, in the good sense, he pretends he didn't hear what I said earlier. That all detainees made redundant from the country are on the basis of the decongested law in force at the time: in 2005, in 2014, in 2015, in 2016. If in practice of dismissal, the law in force is mentioned, it is something that...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u234	Ladies and gentlemen, please, let us finish. To close Mr Paradise because the President of your parliamentary group is also here. Please, Mr. Paraskevi, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u235	Thank you, Mr President. I just wanted to say that all redundancies are based on the current decongested law. Therefore, the reference in 2015 or 2016 to L.4322 does not mean anything, as the corresponding reference in 2014 or 2013 or 2005 meant, or as it would not mean in 2017. All redundancies are like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u236	Thank you very much. I call on the President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group in Step, Mr Mitsotakis. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr President, you have the floor for twelve minutes with relative tolerance, just like everyone today.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u237	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the few words which I will say today reflect the views of the great, the vast majority of Greek society. I am not speaking today just as Chief of Staff Responsibility nor as a relative of terrorism. I am speaking as a shocked citizen who is currently watching the biggest terrorist in our country, an unrepentant murderer, the gun of 17 November, coming out of prison. To enjoy a privilege of the Greek state which he continues to hurt not so much with his actions but with his full hate. A legal, political, philosophical question arises. Is Kufontina entitled to permission? First of all, I must say to you at the outset, and I and the fact that I have the honour to represent ourselves, are in favour of the logic of licences, provided that not only the formal but also the essential conditions are met for granting such a licence. What is the essential requirement for a prisoner to get permission? To have shown samples of remorse, compliance and smooth social reintegration. In the case of Dimitris Koufantinas, this essential condition simply does not exist. Koufantinas through his public speech all these years states that he remains unrepentant. He doesn't repent of any of what he did. It also works through prison as the essential ideological guide to a new generation of terrorists. Basically, it calls on the public interventions of young people to follow their path, to become murderers too. Does this behavior show a man who wants to re-enter society smoothly? Is that exactly what we're rewarding today? I ask the government, because the Minister responsible is here, a clear position on this matter. Don't tell us again that you're not commenting on decisions of justice. We're not talking about a court ruling here. We are talking about an administrative decision. Don't tell us again that Christodoulos Xeros was also on leave. Badly out. We remember that he violated the terms and then we looked for him. By the time he was arrested, he had committed more crimes. But there is another dimension which I would like to mention briefly. When exactly is this decision made? At the worst possible juncture. While organized violence and lawlessness are on the rise. Three days ago some new children, Greek police officers who did their job, were shot outside the PASOK offices. That was after the debate we had in this House. A new generation of terrorists with links to the common criminal crime is being created in Exarcheia. It is this tragic reality that people in this Chamber are constantly trying to deceive it, to present it as a so-called obsession of the New Democracy, as well as of the other parties that are constantly struggling to highlight this issue in the news. It is a real danger for which we will never stop warning. At the time when teams of tramps who are systematically moving outside the legality of the government's tolerance threaten and mistreat. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, how the leader of Ruvikon had declared Koufantina publicly this morning? Do you know that? As the greatest Greek rebel. Yes, sir. Are we out of your mind in this country? When will all of you continue to ignore the problem, to downgrade the action of these groups and to ignore the symbolisms behind each act and behind every reason. I tell you once again - you insist that you do not hear it - no one directly caught the gun. First you start with the minds, the models, the ideas, the molotovs, and at some point some people will end up in the kalashnikov and the forty-five. How long will you finally consider these early stages harmless and what symbolisms are these? Unfortunately, it is not the only symbolism I want to comment on. Two days ago the Minister of Education - notice - publicly invoked a Greek university dean because - he says - calls the police at the university, as if an enemy of the university is the police and not every other criminal who uses it as a hostage or drug dealers who move freely in his homes. What messages are these and what kind of government and a government majority it is today that tolerates the 'rubbis', Mr Contonis, to praise the action of Koufontina and at the same time denounces pretexts because they are appealing to the police to protect criminals and tramps. I'm afraid you've lost every measure and every logic. Finally, do what needs to be done against organised crime. Society requires zero tolerance, not only in relation to acts of terrorism, but also to those who praise acts of terrorism with their words. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, while Mr Koufantinas is going to be released with various fans who I saw welcomed him outside the prisons and abstention him, our thoughts and thoughts of the great majority of Greek society are in memory but also in relatives, mothers, wives, brothers, children, friends... [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] ...Thanos Axarlian, Nikos Momferatou, Panagiotis Rusetis, Dimitris Angelopoulos, Alexander Athanasiadis - Bodosaki, William Nordin, Paul Bakoyannis, Ronald Stewart, Chetin Jorgou, Michael Vranopoulos, Omer Sipahioglou, Kostis Peratikos, Steven Soders. Ladies and gentlemen, democracy is not avenged. But democracy is defending itself. Tolerant democracy, yes, weak democracy, no. Tolerance to all those who continue to declare the enemies of democracy and work systematically against it must be zero. In memory of the victims of terrorism and with respect for the dignity of their families we must loudly call together a bronze 'To here!'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u238	Thank you very much to the President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Mitsotakis. The Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Mr. Kontonis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u239	Mr President, on a point of order...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u240	Not now, Mr. Lightla.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u241	I think it's my right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u242	I've given the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u243	Well, don't make him a rag of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u244	But it's not a rag. Your President has spoken, the Minister must speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u245	I just want to tell you for 20 seconds that the time has gone 14.15'. The sitting was opened at 10 a.m. and four speakers have spoken. That's the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u246	I know. We don't have to deal with a crisis. We have all seen how the debate has gone ahead. Mr. Contonis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u247	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was really surprised at what I heard from the Chief of Staff, the President of the New Democracy. It began with the forty-eight-hour leave, which the prisoner in question achieved through the legal process, in order to redeem two thirds of his speech with the "Rubicon" action and what is unacceptable is happening from time to time from the action of this collectiveity. I say it like that, so I don't want to use some expression more heavy. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we must put things in order and come to an agreement. First and foremost, the particular prisoner, who has been sentenced by the Greek courts to many times life...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u248	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u249	It's not collective, it's a terrorist organization.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u250	Why are you protesting?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u251	Because it's a terrorist organization and it's not collective, that's why! Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u252	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u253	It's a terrorist organization, not a collective organization. Our colleagues have been murdered since November 17th.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u254	Mr. Davakis, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u255	But I did not talk about 17 November.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u256	But he didn't talk about 17 November.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u257	I did not talk about '17 November', I spoke about 'Ruvikon'. Split things out.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u258	For Ruvikon, he spoke. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u259	Watch some. I said I'm using this expression, not to say something heavier about the illegal acts he's taking.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u260	Quiet, please! A misunderstanding happened, that's not what the Minister meant.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u261	Mr President, will the Minister not be able to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u262	Be quiet. We've escaped in the process and in times. Minister, I'm interrupting your time. Colleagues, can we be quiet? Time has been wasted, but I would ask you to respect the time and the Members who have not spoken. Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u263	I would first like to stress that in a favoured state, in a rule of law, the laws and institutions are working against everything. The President of the New Democracy today, if I understood correctly, said to us, 'There is a legislative framework, we are in favour of the institution of licences, but for some, this legislative framework must not apply'. The law arrangements for some will not apply, because we have differences, we have disagreements.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u264	The Council. Aren't you embarrassed?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u265	Don't talk like that again, Mrs. Bakoyannis, because I respect you being a woman. Will you say, "You're not ashamed"? Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u266	Please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u267	Be ashamed of yourself for your course and your path!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u268	Defend the terrorist!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u269	Ladies and gentlemen, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u270	So we are telling you that whether we agree or disagree with a decision, whether it is a court or a joint institution, such as that one, we should see whether this decision was initiated under the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u271	He spoke of the essential requirements, not of the standard. The President was clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u272	Mr Athanasios, please make it easier for the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u273	Firstly, the legislative framework in force has been adopted for the first time in 1989. It was revised in 1999 and you also made a number of changes. Mr. Dendias amended the specific legislative framework and provided for the amendments he made that no one can obtain permission from the Guardian Council if there is no agreement of the Chief Prosecutor, who is in charge of this institution.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u274	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u275	You legislated. Have we changed something from the legislative framework that we received?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u276	The D.A.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u277	Absolutely nothing. What do you say, Mrs. Bakoyannis? What kind of terror are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u278	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u279	Did we modify the 2009 amendment? What are you talking about? Only by unanimous decision. Expose, Mrs. Bakoyannis, and make a fool of yourself! You don't know the law and fly.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u280	Now, I'll see you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u281	Quiet, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u282	So we're going now, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u283	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u284	You're telling us, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u285	Quiet! Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u286	On the basis of the existing framework which you have voted on, without any change from our own government, the Council has been seized and decided unanimously. Does anyone agree with his decision? One might say 'I agree' and another may say 'I disagree'. But the legislature...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u287	You're lying!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u288	You abolished Type III prisons.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u289	Why is this happening now? I'm interrupting time. Why is that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u290	Why can't you hear me?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u291	No, because what you're saying is inaccurate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u292	Ladies and gentlemen, let me inform you that Mrs Bakoyannis has asked for the floor on staff. He'll take the floor later to answer. Please, be quiet. [[Protests - noise from the New Republic ward]] Please. Let's avoid categorisations. A little quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u293	So we're telling you that to give this permission...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u294	The Type III prisons from whom have they been abolished? From you have not been abolished?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u295	Mr. Fortsakis, please make it easy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u296	I cannot understand, Mr President, why this reaction.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u297	Where were the terrorists before? It was there, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u298	What are you talking about, Mr. Fortsaki? I'm sorry on your behalf.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u299	Mr. Fortsakis, please! Time doesn't run. We don't win anything. Mr. Fortsakis, your parliamentary representative can intervene. Get to know him. Please, make it easy. Minister, please continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u300	I would therefore like to tell you that, despite the fact that the government has been under pressure and protests - in my own home, two times have come to protest that the Public Prosecutor's veto, as well as Mr Paradise's home - has not changed the law and that the government has remained in force what you were proposing and you have voted for, that only by unanimous decision, a prisoner can be released. In this case, the prisoner should have served at least eight years in prison and not be subject to any violation of the disciplinary law of the detention store. So the Council, ladies and gentlemen, decided unanimously with the Vice-President of the Court of Appeal, which was the head of the Council. Because so far the Vice-President has not agreed and so this prisoner was not allowed, despite the fact that he had the formal conditions for examining his request. We must therefore consult, ladies and gentlemen, and we must all say that a rule of law is the application of laws to everyone. Otherwise we don't have a rule of law. We don't have a favoured state. Everyone according to their ideologies, depending on what he has been through and which can be serious, can attack anyone and say "you will be exempted". But how will one be excluded when the law does not provide for it? If the law is bad, ladies and gentlemen, we hear opinions, but you who have ruled for so many years have not changed it. The 2009 amendment was your amendment, by Mr. Treasury. If you wanted anything else, you might as well say it. Let's say it now. But the logic that the law provides for it, but the law will not apply to some whose actions, the presence of them, the works we do not approve, cannot enter into the debate. The next thing I wanted to say is the following. Firstly, this prisoner is not released. Secondly, his conviction is not repeated. The Council shall neither release him or re-examine his actions. His actions were judged and convicted. And of course, permitting any prisoner is not a approval of what he has committed and for which he has been convicted, nor is it a tolerance for anything. That is why we must come to an understanding. Ultimately, the government is asking for explanations. Has the government made this decision, ladies and gentlemen? Did the government make that decision to explain? Because if the government took it, we'd be here to give what you want. Ask, however, the government for an institution that you have legislated to render 'justice' - quasi-justice on this issue - that goes beyond the limits. I have heard something else, ladies and gentlemen, from the President-in-Office of the New Democracy. He referred to something that I at least can call it dangerous. He said that this prisoner should not be given permission because he has not repented of his actions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u301	And that's bad?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u302	Look, if you consider that, for granting permission or condemning a person, the ideologies of which he or his thoughts are referred to on various issues, we tell you that you are outside the legal framework. No one condemns in the civilized world the perceptions that one might have on various issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u303	Please, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u304	The law in the civilized world condemns acts rather than the general perceptions. He was convicted of his actions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u305	It's not recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u306	What paranoid and irrational things are you throwing away and estomizing? These are unprecedented. However, what has come to an impression is that, although the law you voted for does not provide for it, the President of the New Democracy called, as a prerequisite, but for this defendant, to have repented of his actions. Apart from the fact that this is outside legal culture and, in addition, unacceptable to say although the law does not provide for it, for someone 'I demand it to be part of the court's crisis, it is in conflict, ladies and gentlemen, and with decisions of independent authorities. You come here on several occasions and ask the government to not accept the decisions of the independent authorities and to conflict with the independent authorities. In fact, a colleague I had heard said that we have a serious problem with the independent authorities and we are in constant conflict with them. The Authority, called the Citizen's Counsel since 2008, again to your governments, stated in the 2008 Special Report that the requirement of repentance of the prisoner is not lawful. So what are you telling us? Watch out, what a catastrophic point you're getting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u307	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u308	Stop, Mr. Athanasios, finally.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u309	Mr. Athanasios, you're making things easier. The Minister's coming to an end.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u310	So you tell us two things, which are dangerous: firstly, for a particular prisoner to take into account conditions that are not laid down in the law. Secondly - and equally dangerous - these conditions have been decided that if they were in law, they would not be lawful. That's what you're telling us. I, ladies and gentlemen, want to tell you that the vile crimes suffered by this prisoner were judged by justice and did not change their character. There is no change in the decency of these acts by granting the permit, which, I say again, one can agree, another may disagree. There have even been a very short period of time, such as the Federation of Penitentiary Officers, which I am tabling in the Minutes to take into account, which is in favour of granting permission. [[At this point, Minister Stavros Kontonis presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice.]] There are opinions and other political factors and the President-in-Office at this time, who is not in agreement. So I am telling you that I hope that this prisoner has considered and regretted this evil he has done first and foremost to the victims of his actions and their families, to have considered the evil he has done to the people who were recruiting in this process of extermination and death. I hope that this will also be considered. I hope that he will also consider the evil he has done in the country over the years with this action, which killed people in the back, because they had political or ideological disagreements with them. I repeat, therefore, that the actions remain alert. No one repeats anything and granting the licence at all means nothing in terms of both the actions it has carried out and the outcome of the trial. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you this in order to be honest: the government was the coexistence of PASOK and New Democracy when Christodoulou Xiros was licensed. When Christodoulos Xiros, ladies and gentlemen, violated his license, he was given, SYRIZA did not come here to ask the government for explanation, because we have institutional education and cannot ask the government for explanations on a matter that is not a government decision. We have therefore shown seriousness and measure to the problem that has arisen. In your day another council had ruled to permit a prisoner. We're not here to say it's the government's fault. In fact, over your days, he violated your license and committed illegal acts, was arrested at some point and was brought to prison, where the law still applies.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u311	Isn't that a lesson for everyone?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u312	That is, of course, a lesson, Mr Colleague, and I agree with what you are saying. But if that is the case, you should say something else about the legislative framework. The legislative framework applies to everyone. That's the rule of the Constitution. That's how is inspiring is inequality. If you want exceptions to the law, then we get away from every measure and every serious debate in this Chamber. I would therefore like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that the right-wing rhetoric from New Democracy is good, that the misinformation you want to say is good, but on institutional and law-enforcement issues, let us show one serious thing at last. Don't give up on the government for laws that you voted on. Don't give up on the government for decisions taken by mixed bodies consisting of prosecutors and public officials.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u313	Minister, because Mr. Koutsoubas and Mrs. Bakoyannis have asked for the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u314	I'm done. I would like, therefore, to conclude by saying, in order to inform Parliament, that this is the Council's decision. Perhaps something that public opinion does not know is that it also imposed restrictive reasons for this weekend. I say that this committee has dealt with it as a serious matter. Let's keep our cool. Let us not get informed on the basis of popularity and a peculiar reason. Greece cannot live, ladies and gentlemen, with the ghosts of the past. If you have decided to engrave with the ghosts of the past, it is your right. The government has decided to confront the problems of the present. And because you see these problems day after day are solved, that's why you're out of line. I understand that. But overthrow yourself in institutional matters, this is totally unacceptable and doomed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u315	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u316	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u317	Mr Koutsouba, I am responsible for a moment to give the floor to Mrs Bakoyannis, because they are personal. Because of this particular case, it will respond for a minute. I would ask that there should be no dialogue, however.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u318	It's not a half a minute or a minute. It is three quarters that is being delayed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u319	Unfortunately, it was a very long debate. Mrs. Bakoyannis, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u320	Mr. Contony, you've come up with a sad apology for Kufontina. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Today, your presence here has been very problematic, because acting as you don't know, you don't deserve it. I, ladies and gentlemen, am not a legal person, nor am I going to talk about any legal framework and any legal culture. I am a mere MEP, who wonders what changed, Mr Contonis, since Koufantinas asked for permissions and did not agree with him in the same legislative framework. What's changed?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u321	Why are you asking me?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u322	Calm down, Mr. Contony.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u323	Why are you asking me about this thing?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u324	Calm down. Zakynthos usually made civilized people, but I see exceptions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u325	Why do you ask the government?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u326	I'll ask you, yes, because I have a reason why I ask you, Mr. Contonis. So when this same legislative framework existed, the license to Koufontina had refused it. Wasn't it the same Koufantinas? Wasn't it the law itself? Didn't Mr. Koufantinas take out the book, ladies and gentlemen, in which he said that the night he murdered Paul Bakoyannis back had gone to a table, in a tavern, and he drank and was happy about the maximum success of the murder?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u327	What does that have to do with anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u328	When you understand, colleague, the relationship will be too late because it exists. As far as the issue is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, it concerns others, we are about to make a great deal of speech and the colleague is also very awkward. But, long before you, Mr. Colleague, Breech had said first - he deserves to be read - that we used to talk about others and that was none of our business. At some point it's personal concern. Because then you would understand the extent of the damage, which has been done today. Mr Contonis, what saddens me most of all is your selective sensitivity. You as the Minister of Justice, Mr. Kontonis, when the decision on Herianna came out, considered it your duty to build it. It wasn't a court decision then? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I was expecting at least of you today to stand up and say: 'We are sorry, we are not in agreement'. That's what the law says, it came out because we keep the law, but we politically condemn. But you don't have the guts to do, Mr. Kontonis, because all the time - collectives alpha, Ruvikon, beta collectives - we are one and that and when we want to cover them, we are first in the convictions. When you're going to cover or condemn a murderer who killed eleven people, you're hiding, Mr. Contonis. It's disgraceful!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u329	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u330	Mr. Contony, no. We must respect the President, Mr. Kutsuba. Please. The President has been waiting for twenty minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u331	No, Mr President, Mrs Bakoyannis has addressed me personally with inappropriate expressions. I'll answer. I have the right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u332	Mr. Kutsuba, you will forgive me. Today is a difficult day. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please, be quiet! Mr. Contonis, please respect the President. It's half an hour waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u333	What can I respect, Mr. President? He talked about disgrace and that the ditch makes deals. What are these things? And you're telling me not to talk, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u334	Mr President, he has spoken for forty minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u335	Mr. President, please! [[Noise - protests in the Chamber]] Mr President, I have asked for the floor. I'm entitled to it under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u336	Play duels out.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u337	We'll never end this way. We must respect the President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u338	Mr President, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u339	Not for two minutes. For a minute, and I apologize to Mr. Koutsuba. Just a minute hard. Then I'll turn off the microphones. Just a minute hard.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u340	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry for this position of my colleague, because we have never approved murderous actions - I said so from the Stepma - and we have never been involved in such situations. Never!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u341	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u342	Now why is that so? It's not right. Mr. Varvichiotis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u343	We have always condemned these actions and these heinous crimes. So you're saying absolutely...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u344	With all SYRIZA's defense witnesses there!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u345	...inaccuracy and lies in the House, Mrs Bakoyannis, and you are even exalting your word that we are supposedly supporting and depriving others of whom we have fallen victim to. Mrs Bakoyannis, when they came to Mr Paradise's house or to my house on several occasions and claimed that these gentlemen should change the legislative framework for granting licences, the government did not pass on these requests.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u346	Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u347	It remained the legislative framework, just as you left it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u348	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u349	We are therefore returning all of what you have said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u350	Please, Minister, respect Mr. Kutsuba. Today we've been afflicted by him.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u351	It is a pity that you, too, are going to look at such designations that you are not being honoured.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u352	Minister, thank you. Mr. Kutsuba, I'm sorry. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u353	Fortunately, the cameras of the channel of Parliament are open and the Greek people can see this mess and the SYRIZA - ANEL Government and the Hellenic Republic, as well as the New Democracy, as well as the Bureau, President-in-Office, about how it keeps the proceedings in this Chamber. We are also seen as students who come to be taught, supposedly, from the operation of the House, this top, again supposedly an element of the foundation of the Greek state, of democracy and can thus draw their conclusions. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] The government of SYRIZA, with its partners, and the Civic Opposition of the New Democracy, do not lose the opportunity to elevate a completely ridiculous and disorientative confrontation, of course, over existing problems - but it is not the crucial problems that concern our working people - which employ Greek citizens at the end of Greece, who are struggling under this barbaric policy, which both of you have implemented and continued, as good students, you gentlemen, in the government headquarters, to implement it from now on. Contrary to all of you, therefore, on these critical issues, which are protesting nurses, doctors, health workers and other workers, there is a rally in the afternoon outside the House in the Constitution. So today's bill is such a crucial issue, and that is why the JRC will speak firmly. That will also be the content of my speech and not all these disorientative and at the same time hypocritical. After all, on this particular issue which you are all discussing for over an hour now there are positions of the political parties, there is the position of the JRC. Can Greek society, its movement, judge. Because the working people's movement itself has suffered from such actions as the various now licensed and licensed, but also from political decisions of your own and certain decisions of the non-aligned - supposedly - justice. Ladies and gentlemen, with this bill the government is making another political stripping, which reveals that its unpopular commitments to big capital are not perfect. They're literally trying to fill a barrel that doesn't have a bottom. The way the government has brought this bill, in the form of an emergency, like a thief, is to surprise doctors. He wants to prevent justified reactions, which already exist, from the Federation of Hospital Doctors of Greece and from other workers' trade unions. Gentlemen of the government, the forty - eighth hour you claim to be establishing is a fraud, and fraud is also an improvement in doctors' working time. The attempted deception even starts with the title of the bill. You are baptising as a organization of doctors' working time its essential and complete disorganization, which, of course, is added to the existing symposium, because it exists. By incorporating all the reactionary European directives, you are elasticising the working hours. This is the full, inconsistent implementation of the Serkas report, which since 2008 had been at the edge of the workers' outcry, since it includes the most morbid ones thought of the "brains" in the European Union, such as the company’s ability to split the daily working time into active and inactive, such as the working time arrangement. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government, and here it undertakes to carry out the dirty work that the former have not been able to do. You are exploiting the current unacceptable status of hours and on-calls. Instead of solving the problem in the only way that exists, i.e. the necessary recruitment of doctors and health workers with stable working relations, you are using a situation that, together with the previous ones, you have shaped as an alibi, so that once again a more anti-popular restructuring of the working time of doctors can be carried out. Of course, you do the same on other issues, and you do the same with the EDPS, with journalists. On the one hand, you have led the funds back to a dead end, and on the other hand, you are bringing an amendment today, saying to the workers'strengthen and backwards' and, at the same time, increase the employee's contributions. In fact, you are doing this, distorting the positions and interventions of the JRC, as you tried to do yesterday and yesterday in the committee on the issues of doctors, working time, the arrangement and all that the representatives of the JRC were responsible for. Our party has pointed out that this monstrosity is not only about doctors. It is a pretext for what is reserved for other sectors of workers too, in order to achieve the maximum exploitation of workers. This bill provides for arrangements that BSE has just made as a matter of urgency, such as more flexibility in labour relations, and even pointing out that in the area of public health the degree of flexibility must go up. You, of course, also come with this and later with other bills - which we will see in the course of the next few months - to make these claims of the large-industrialists. You have rightly been proclaimed by the Greek people, at least by the people who have learned to think, since they live every day all these problems, like children for all jobs, especially those who are dirty jobs, which the previous ones may have been difficult to do - not that they did not, of course, - or did not have time to do so. Now leave hypocrisy and supposedly against New Democracy, since you are voting together on the directive today, and on a number of other crucial issues that have been raised in the past months and years, starting from the third memorandum and the others you would allegedly abolish with a law. The unhealthy, unhealthy, unhealthy abortion you brought abolishes the doctors' constant, daily and weekly working time. Forty-eight hours is not the maximum working week allowed, but the average, with a four-month reference period. They'll be able to inspect all day-old dozens of hours for more than a month. It's a huge challenge. It's the government's courage. Twelve hours' work, twelve hours' rest, and this is under a duty, since, as the explanatory statement mentions, there is also a derogation for reasons of service and guaranteeing the good functioning of public health units. Will you ensure that hospitals operate properly? So unconscious are you not to understand that in this way the chances of tragic omissions, mistakes at the expense of health, even of the patient's own life? The abortion - your legislation introduces the opt - out, i.e. with the individual consent of the doctor the average weekly working time can be increased from forty - eight in sixty hours. With the huge gaps that we all know there are, with the real freeze of recruitment, the free consent of the doctor is uncovered mockery, you are again told, a pure challenge. Sixteen hours will be the rule, not the exception. Here we are, and we'll all see, and we'll see you in the next few months in the next few months. The concept of active and inactive time is also established. As an employee, only the time during which the doctor is in his workplace is considered to be only the time at which he is working. Therefore, on-call time is not considered to be a working time, but as a rest period, while also allowing this type of on-call to be paid only if the doctor is invited to the hospital and provide services. This interpretation is based on the relevant articles setting out what is paid overtime, where it is expressly defined as only those who are present at the workplace. The government does not understand what it means to social life and the health of workers with all these working hours - elastic, when first-year students in medicine know - but it also comes from common sense, you do not have to go to medicine for that - that the enormous strain of the human body by such exhaustive continuous daily work cannot be replaced by the fact that it will then work relatively fewer hours. We understand that very well, ladies and gentlemen, of the ruling party. On the one hand, the government is staging that the organisation of doctors' working hours is intended to protect their health and working rights and, on the other hand, calls on them - voluntarily, indeed - to dismiss it. The Government claims that this exemption is temporary, for three years, until the necessary recruitment is made. Well, now who do you think you're kidding? You have agreed here to respect the budget targets and the bloody primary surpluses by 2060, which are unlike all that you say about recruitment. In the preliminary draft state budget, the expenditure on hospitals is reduced by EUR 350 million. As much as you're trying to create a so-called philosopher, it doesn't exactly come out of you. You're multiple exposed. You have implemented the insurance law - looting, abolishing collective agreements, expanding flexible employment relationships, looting wages and pensions, cutting everything related to social benefits. You have shaped without exaggeration a working jungle together, co-government and Civic Opposition and some other parties here. Now you come and beat the hearts of working conquests by abolishing fixed working time. It is a pretext for what you have agreed with your co-workers, with the large groups, on overturning labour legislation and further strike and on the right of strike. That's why you keep seven sealed secrets all these agreements. That's why the relevant bills are going to bring back surprises like thieves. You've learned the lesson very well from your teachers, the previous ones, and you're already far beyond them. Ladies and gentlemen, the JRC supports the demands of hospital doctors. What is in the interests of doctors and patients is only mass recruitment of doctors, other health workers, full-time and full-time, with a fixed daily and weekly working time, with five-hour working time normally - that is where we have to reach three hours and one on-calls per week - with substantial increases in wages, with the abolition of all anti-corruption and reinsurance laws, with tax burdens and substantial measures for the health and safety of workers and patients. We will not suffer the flag of the race until we reach an exclusive public, modern, free health system that meets the current real needs of our people, the prevention, treatment and rehabilitation of health. We also call on the doctors, nurses, all hospital workers, all health and welfare workers to find themselves together with the other workers in the people who suffer and today in the rallys called by PAME throughout the country and here in Athens, outside the Constitution at 18.30 p.m. and continue their struggle on a daily basis. I would like to say one more word, to make a comment on a scandal that will probably explode. While it has been about a year since our party's first complaint about the upsurge in its telephone center was made and eight months from the second, we read in the press yesterday and today that the competent public prosecutor is proposing to put the file on the file, as if nothing happened at all and, indeed, with the unprecedented fact that the prosecutor in the case does not even consider it necessary to inform the party which was the victim of such clashes, i.e. intercepts. First of all, it is unacceptable to delay. It is unacceptable to inertia by which the co-competent authorities and services operate, which, while there were significant and usable data which they had to investigate in depth, did not do anything. That is why, overall, we say that this is also about State security, the police, but also the judicial authorities, that is, they are directly referring to the state, to your government. Unless your Government starts talking again and abstractly about some paratroopers inside the state! According to the reports and findings of the ADI which we have in mind, in addition to the tens of calls made from different countries abroad using the technical counterfeiting of calls, there have also been calls from abroad not via the Internet, but through a telephone centre, which can then be found to be relevant and specific research from exactly where they come from and precisely so to ask for their disclosure. The question arises as to why this very serious case is going to the file, which has nothing to do with the various toys played by children, like some kind of nice little ones here who go back to the premises of the House, both known for the past and for the present and their future, with the Nazi ideology and mind they carry. The case, however, is linked to the confidentiality of communications and goes to the file. So it is a very serious case and these questions are reasonably raised. I'm talking late, and you might want to inspire them sometime. The government is accountable. It must at last assume its responsibilities so that the file does not have to be filed and further investigations can be carried out in order to find out which mechanisms are behind this case. Otherwise you take on specific, huge political responsibility for who exactly you want to cover up. I'll see you clearly and then.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u354	Thank you, Mr President of the JRC Parliamentary Group. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the above Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, nine students and one of their attendants from the private IEK "NEWNNON", specializing in "Management and economy in tourism". The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I shall now give the floor to the Minister, Mr Petropoulos, to inform the House of any legislative improvements. There are seven Members left. They'll talk two of them. Then Mr Rabbit will speak as a parliamentary representative, because he has not spoken with any other parliamentary representative except Mr Loverdos. So I'd like to have a little tolerance in terms of time. In time, be as typical as you can. Here, Mr. Petersburg, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u355	I shall be very brief, Mr President, for the services of this House to prepare the relevant text. The first article of the proposed amendment shall be supplemented by the words ‘on request’. It is about those owners who are part of the EDPS. Because they choose between them who they will be, this legislative improvement must necessarily be introduced. There are six other formalities - legislative improvements. To say about the ERT's turnover, as reflected in the ERT's final profit statement. This must be clarified. There is also a formula of legislative improvement for 2% of advertising services and Internet products. We must make a clear wording there. The procedure shall be defined by the Board of Directors of the EESC and any such procedure in the Regulation shall be ratified by a decision of the Minister for Labour and Social Security. These are the points and I mentioned them briefly. I'm putting it down for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u356	Thank you for the brief time, Minister. Mr Kaisha has the floor from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group for five minutes. Mr Colleague, please be consistent in your time and you, so that we can finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u357	Mr President, do I not deserve six minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u358	Because time has slipped completely, we took it to the original process, which is five minutes. Somebody call Mr. Lightla that he's next.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u359	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill has come under the urgency procedure, and I believe it will be over, voted on, and it will take time. I say this because other issues have been raised, which have not only helped to discuss this, but have also been overshadowed. What's coming to solve this bill? To answer this question, one must describe what the current situation is. Several colleagues spoke earlier about the situation and '77 and '97 and so on. I will avoid doing so myself, although I have served in service thirty-seven years. So to this day, when the doctors are talking, they keep 24 hours a day. They're on duty at 8:00 in the morning, and they're done on the next day 8:00 in the morning again. Is there anyone who thinks this can go on? And yet it's been forty years. Is anyone who thinks he shouldn't be corrected? There are objections from a lot of people who don't know what these people are pulling. It is not just the stress of doctors, which is certainly a big issue, but it is such fatigue, which patients are paying for. It makes sense to make mistakes and omissions and to be too tired. After 24 hours, this continues to work for their normal hours. How many newspapers do they do this month? Because every month, the program comes out. Eight to ten, good times. In provincial hospitals, some examples of where two doctors are were mentioned were reported, 15 days a month. As strange as this may seem to you, it is in some cases happening even worse. But I do not want to go on saying what the situation is. All the doctors who are currently serving in the system know her. Fortunately the fine of 150 million has come and the system has been somewhat shaken and we will not continue that way. What does the bill provide for? I shall read in writing a paragraph: "The regular hours of hospital doctors are seven hours, continuous, breakfast and five hours, from Monday to Friday, from 8.00 to 15.00." That's flexible working relationships? Isn't that normal working hours? We've heard things here, and we're almost out of our minds. That is what Article 3(1) says.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u360	We withdrew that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u361	We dropped it. It obliges the doctor to work for forty-eight hours a week, i.e. thirty-five tactics he works, and another on-call, another twelve hours. This is the weekend. Today, there's no doctor working with hours like this, he's not. There's nowhere in a hospital, no matter how big it is. It gives the opportunity, with the doctor's consent, to go to two on-calls, two dozen hours, as I'll explain. With his consent always! The new bill keeps all the doctors up to date. For those who don't know, university doctors over a certain grade do not at this time prosecute and it's a huge problem for other doctors. From twenty-four hours on the guard, then, it becomes twelve hours. So, it's not considered to be reduced? Can this system be applied? Oh, no. We're unequivocal. There must be preconditions. Who? TLP autonomously, what the ministers have announced and will proceed, new recruitments, also defined the number, creation of primary health care, with which hospitals will be greatly reduced. Of course these cannot be done from one day to the next. They'll be in three years. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would just like to say a word about the Crisis Councils, since I don't have time. We all know how judges were termed. From the Minister of Health directly! We all know what has happened all these years since 1985, at least, that the ESS has been implemented so far. Now that they're chosen on the basis of luck, will they be paid off, so now will the party state become? Because we heard that too. I call on all Members to vote in favour of this bill because it solves chronic problems for doctors and hospitals. A doctor who has served the system for thirty - seven years tells you this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u362	Thank you, my colleague. Mr. Fotillas has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u363	Thank you, Mr President. I do not understand, of course, why you have reduced the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u364	Under the Rules of Procedure, which has changed, time is five minutes. You see there's tolerance. If I tell you that you have six minutes, Mr. Firela, you will speak eight.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u365	That's how I accept it. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is in despair. In the few months she's left doing anything she can to keep hooked up with power. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Will you let me talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u366	Ladies and gentlemen, please respect the speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u367	He brings bills, like today, with fast track procedures, without any consultation. We were asked to call in bodies. Listen, Mr. Amyras. When we protested that we cannot call bodies from all over Greece, so that they are in Parliament within three hours - because that is what we were asked for - you know what the SYRIZA rapporteur's answer was? But, whoever needs, they've already been informed. The absolute benefit of Parliament! In any case, ladies and gentlemen, do not bring them to the committees. Let's go straight to plenary, get this case over with, if the bills are like this. At the same time, the bill mocks and offends health. He even says that he has genuine interest in doctors and on-calls. Who says that? Mr. Paulakis, who continues to exaggerate the overwhelming majority of doctors, pleading willingly that they are corrupt. Now he's cut off for the on-calls of corrupt people, as he says. Of course, I did not expect anything else from Mr Polakis' statements. I knew what the level was. After all, Mr Polakis, 'Clazomeni's excellence'. Don't look into the English dictionary, it's Greek. I would recommend to you, as throughout the government, in the last few months that you remain in power to deal with the real problems of the healthcare area and not to cause, by insulting doctors, who, in their vast majority, give their best self to keep the ESS up. Because I spoke about the real health problems, you saw the letter of the Governor of the People's Hospital, which forces patients to sign that they are still in the O.R.'s waiting lists, why aren't they going to operate before February 2018? These are the real problems of public health. That is what you should look at and not bring us sloppy texts, without any documentation and no consultation. But the question remains, why do you now bring these settings? Because you obviously want to settle your own world through an unprecedented procedure for the crises and the choice of doctors of the ERC. Really, where else is a global draw? Do you really have an obsession with the SYRIZA Government - ANEL with the draws, and I wonder why? Is it because they're cooking easily? And leave this structured interview, which can bring the fifth one. In other words, it is only our 'one' to be in the first five. The only thing that comforts me is that your "yours" are usually not within the first five. What can we say about the amendment that has been incorporated into Article 20? You are attempting to blackmail a signature from doctors for resignation of every legitimate right. This is a unilateral action, which on the one hand will have a great impact on the service of citizens, and on the other hand will close the private laboratories, diagnostic centres and the ECYYC clinics, since they are called upon to pay the Agency's budget deficits. To conclude, let me make two comments on political topicality. The first concerns the Minister of Education and the incredible announcement he made against the Dean of the University of Macedonia. Rectoring the Minister of a democratic country, a university teacher, the Dean, for addressing his students to talk to them about dignity, dignity and respect, goes beyond the ground. We are talking about a Minister, Mr Gabroglou, who has not found a word to say about all this misery on a daily basis in university spaces. It is self-evident, Mr Gavroglou, if you can hear me, that you will be a moral autocratic if something happens next time at that university. The second comment I will make as a lawman for what unprecedented I have heard these days from SYRIZA - ANEL and Mr Paradise about the infamous law that was proposed and voted on, ladies and gentlemen of the Coupling, in 2015. A few days ago, on Friday, the Prime Minister broke his clothes for this law, saying what good he is and that he must remain. The day before yesterday, Mr. Paraparapuls himself "emptied" his Prime Minister and stated willingly that this law must be repealed, because it was, he says, temporary. I wonder: is there a limit on SYRIZA's fragmentation - ANEL? This is why the former Minister did not say it in 2015 when we told him that the law concerns the decongestion of prisons and nothing else and he celebrated, like all of you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, the allegedly great reform of the Criminal Code? Besides, the bill itself was signed. Do you remember it or did you forget it? He did not say anything in his title 'the law on decongestion of prisons'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u368	Mr. Lightla, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u369	In a minute at most, Mr President. Do you know what Mr Paradise said about the substance of the matter? After we got as many as we wanted, we dismantle the law and, if they go back in, we'll re-activate it and reset it. I mean, they're not gonna stay with anything anyway. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you have really dissolved the country. In the economy you confessed to murdering the middle class. In education you play with the agony of students and parents and at the same time with the safety of university and student students. In public security, you've filled the streets with criminals. You have a relationship of affection and love with all kinds of "bugs" and you promote applications for permits to unrepentant killers. Don't tell me that the government has nothing to do with it, because I'll remind you that Mr. Lambros is doing the job. You are incompetent and ruthless. Fortunately, we soon hope that you will be in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u370	Thank you, Mr. Firela. The Parliamentary Representative of the People's League - Golden Dawn, Mr. Ioannis Ragos, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u371	Thank you, Mr President. We will start by saying that it is dissatisfied with the courage of SYRIZA - ANEL, which entered here today with the current Minister of Justice, the Minister of Justice, and the former Minister of Justice, the Paradise, and who dared to fight us already because we said that the criminals are going out and killing people. That was the problem, therefore, and they defend this view and their idea, precisely because they are their ideas, these are their perceptions. We have heard Mr Paradoxopoulos say 'Don't attack me, it's not a matter of a person, a person'. But it's definitely not a matter of a person or person, it's all the ideology that SYRIZA has. That ideology has, and she's embassing. If today in this Chamber and in the television receivers people hear complaints from some, rightly complaining, maybe some people do, why was a murderer released with the 40-hour license they have received, and some protest why they are able to protest, I would like to ask you a question: The parents, the relatives and friends of all those who are not surnamed, but are anonymous and have lost their lives from the hordes of horsemen and criminals you have left free and go and kill in people's homes, how can they be heard? The pain of these people, who no one listens to. The pain of these people, who have no place to support and stay alone at night at home, crying about the people they have lost. It is the pain of these people, who enter Georgians, ruthless criminals, Albanians, Pakistanians - and I don't know who else - and kill, iron, rape and plunder. They iron out the faces of super-aged people. That's our catalyst. We see that these people should be inside and rotting in prison, because that is where the people concerned are, and, instead of being twenty and twenty-five years in prison, as they should, we see them being out in two and three years and doing the same and worse. The pain of these people could not hear him. We, the Golden Dawn, are the ones who will look to bring these people's suffering into Parliament and to the entire Greek society. So we heard disguised words from Mr. Paradigopoulos telling us that this law should be passed to make, he says, the decongestion of prisons. Yes, imprisonment. But from whom did the prison congestion take place? Was it from thousands of illegal immigrants who showed up and did what they wanted in Greece? Was it about 75% to the Law of Friday, which was in prison, illegal immigrants? It was and the entire Greek society knows it and we know it in the Greek Parliament. We've asked questions and we've received answers. They were, then, illegal immigrants who came in, murderers, criminals. Of course not everyone is like that. Don't take what the Golden Dawn says. We're never collective responsibility. But it's the majority of everyone who's in. It is some human cataract, which have come and take away human lives and make a fool of things in our country. There, then, we see a great deal of emotiveness for all who are in prison. We see respect for their human rights. But we do not respect the human rights of those who are outside prison, of innocent people, who, as you have made Greece, you memorialists, are looking to get through for a piece of money, of the people who pay taxes, of them, of their families, of their fathers, of their parents, who just want to have the basic sense of security at home. But they cannot find it because you, the "sensitive" leftists along with the "patriots" of ANELs, have made sure to protect all irregular illegal immigrants. So here's the big deal. We heard Kontonis earlier, who was absent, who had gone up to the Step of the House and tried to characterize "Rubicon". He said: "It's a collective "Rubic". I don't want to say anything else." But why don't you say anything else, Condonne? Tell "Ruvia" exactly what it is. Comrades. Tell the comrades, Cologne. These are the members of the Ruvikon. These are the leftists you cover, appearing in the House, doing what they want, and then the President of the Parliament, Nikos Voutsis, is calling on the police to let them go. That is the reality, and that is what we have to talk about. He said earlier, too, that no other decongestive law will be needed in prisons. Of course, as it goes, you won't have to. They got them all out. Something afflicted you have left in, some Greeks who owe and do not have to pay. Right now, they're staring at being inside the prisons and looking at how illegal criminals get out, who have to stay alive. Because in Greece there is another story, there is a large proportion of prisoners who are called isovites. Yeah, that's a big deal. But you know why? Because life in Greece never applies. Because all these people at six, seven, eight, in ten years are all out, no matter how bad they have committed crimes. That's our catalyst. We're going to another matter now. We are going to a national issue that has arisen because, for the Golden Dawn, national issues always play a major role. Here we will once again unravel the one who represents the Minister of National Defence, Panos Kammenos. There is in the area of Thrace, where you are voting for some bills now that something - in introductory - "Turkish" minorities, a man, a woman, who has fought enormously over the years and I think that there is respect for all of us for her face. It's Hara Nicopoulou. So Hara Nikopoulou had asked and received an area about two years ago, an abandoned penitentiary in the region of Rhodope, Akrita, and there made sure that she had some little children inside, who had no families, who had left them, who could also be Muslims and Christians - everything - and he noticed them. He had them in this area, so that that part of the Greek land would keep it Greek in difficult times and difficult conditions. Approximately two, three months ago, a document was taken from the Greek Army, which says that the concession of the use of facilities is being revoked in order for the prison to be operationally exploited by the Military Service. That's a fake. The reason for the expulsion of the Joy of Nicopoulou is only one fact: that after years this lady was seconded to the Golden Dawn. Because he judged, after years, that it is only the Golden Dawn that is trying and fighting for Greek ideals and for the struggle of our country, for justice. There, then, there was a talk with the Minister, Panos Kammenos, and we asked him, without hearing which political parties have been involved and without putting this above all, but by putting the national good and national interest, to cancel this decision and to remain the space in Hara, Nicopoulou, which is a diamond of Greek society and has been chased and beaten by people who declare Turks in our Thrace and whom the Greek state cares them. The Minister's answer was that he gave his word. Such men, of course, have no reason. Such men are only ribbons. So this man said, of course, that Hara Nikopoulou is doing national work and will keep it in place. Then, and not doing any of these things, in the telephone communication that Mrs. Hara Nikopoulou herself had, she told her that, although she had promised that, "I didn't know you were seconded to Golden Dawn". There's a telephone call because Kammenos has this kosouri and a lot is recorded on his phones. As long as he is Minister you will cover him, the left-wing and nationalist partners, and that will not be learned, but, once there is a withdrawal of telephone secrets on many issues that have been done, there will be a lot to be heard. So there is this dialogue. In fact, Nikopoulou says to Kammenos: "If I leave, that is, from Golden Dawn, the space will remain?" And Kammenos turns around and says, "Yes, leave and the space will remain in you." This is the humiliated Minister of National Defence, who puts party and personal interest only above national good. This is the SYRIZA - ANEL co-government that currently governs us, who think nothing else, despite their personal survival at any cost. That's what's going on. That's why it's so big a war against Golden Dawn, because we're the ones we're dating and fighting for these issues. We've told you several times. We are determined to pull the cross of the testimonial to us and to suffer any consequence. Because for us, there is Greece. Because for us, there is orthodoxism and why we are fighting for ideal that we have within us. So we see that the political world is moving in our homeland, with lawyers, who decide on various things, on scandals that have taken place, on cases that must disappear and on proclamations that come within the Greek Parliament and include great names of MPs, former ministers, and no one ever wants to put them on the table. Whoever comes to power keeps these papers he has in a drawer. He doesn't care about the guilty ones being punished. He is only interested in keeping hostages for those who are in opposition and cannot speak. This game has been changing forty-five years. So we promise you that we will continue to fight at any cost. That's the kind of thing we're going to keep making public, with those little, little instruments we've got. The Greek people have brought us to the House, they have given us the power to speak. All the rest of us have ruled out all the big media. I don't know what else you're gonna do in a while. You may stop giving us the right to talk. But as long as we have this Step of the House and, above all, as strong as we are and exist on roads, squares, villages, we will fight for the freedom of our country, because our country is enslaved. I will agree with what the Vice-President of the New Democracy said earlier, addressing the Ministers of SYRIZA. He says to him: “What are you shouting now? And you're memorialists now. We are all together." That's right, Georgiadis was right. All together, you're submissive, memorial, enslaved to foreign loan sharks.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u372	Thank you very much Mr Rabbit, actually in time. Mr. Ballis has the floor for five minutes. Then the Minister, Mr. Petropoulos, will speak for five minutes and he will be speaking in his turn. Mr Amyras will then be followed by a parliamentary representative. Here, Mr Ballis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u373	Ladies and gentlemen, for the bill, I think there have been positions that analyse all its aspects in depth. You will allow me to address myself on a different subject, the amendment brought by the Ministry of Labour, on the steps to be taken to save the EDPS. Finally, a decisive first step is being taken - but one step is being taken - to save this fund, which from wrong choices, wrong decisions were made toward the disaster, leaving thousands of people in despair and most of its beneficiaries. It is a matter that requires the attention of all of us and, above all, the composition of our evenings and the conclusion, so that we can find the best way to survive this fund and the funds in general in the press. Unfortunately, however, I have seen that hypocrisy has passed on the position of colleagues from the Opposition on this issue, because, if we want to tell the truth, we must admit all sides, and in particular those aspects that mainly concern them the problem, when it was created, not only for the EDEAP, not just for the press insurance funds, but for all the insurance funds. They forget the axes, the scissors with the PSI. They forget that the 155 million that the EDEAP had had at all times became about 48, if I remember correctly, at nominal value and, when a liquidation had to be made, it turned out that the real value was only 5 million euros on July 31st, in mid-2012, according to the data of the National Bank. I hear charges against the government for the ad. Suddenly, did some aspects of the Anti-Population discover that it was cut and cut, the ad was abolished in September 2016? They do not know or remember that the abolition of the ad was one of the requirements, the two hundred and fifty, on the list provided by BSE to the then Minister for Development, Mr Chrysochoidis, in order to develop entrepreneurship in Greece? Are they forgetting that this list of itself almost incorporated into the so-called OECD toolbox? Are they forgetting that in 2013 and 2014 from the troika had urgently come to an end to the ad and that at that time a year of extension was given by the then government? Elections were coming, they could not have had a fund in dissolution, especially one industry, the press industry, the wood hanging. Doesn't that all say anything in the Opposition? What didn't he do then? He hid under the rug the outgoing abolition of the ad. He hasn't taken care of his replacement ever since. He has not dealt with the survival of the press funds. It did not deal with the replacement of the post office, which I said before, because the Canadians and employers in the press would then have to pay contributions to the press, which they did not pay. Because the responsibility of the government at the time was that the post office of the employer, as it was designated, had a veil of protection, was renamed and recognised as a social resource in favour of third parties and was therefore cut. Since then, his cut-off and dismantling has been under way. The bomb's blown to us. We managed and won two extensions until September 2016 in order to reach an agreement with the employers on the replacement of the resource for the insurance funds in the press. Employers and then, as they now, reacted and reacted, for they had learned in the free. We're done for free. This must be understood and understood. More specifically now, because time is pushing, since it has been cut, you will allow me to make a few comments, Minister, on the amendment. You also know very well that the abolition of the ad has not only had a harmful impact on the EDEAP, it has had in both provincial funds of the region, the so-called EDFs and the TECs, which are the subsidiary funds of the Associations of Thessaly, Central Greece, Evia and Peloponnese, Epirus and the islands, that is, half of Greece. These regional funds have been in a state of survival after the announcement has been abolished. You've dealt with it correctly and you're saying that since the 2% resource that enters the media turnover, a proportion of the number of people insured will go to the EBRD and the EBRD. In order to avoid the risk of a fictitious and unjust distribution, I would suggest that, Minister, we determine that it will be in proportion to the directly insured and not all the beneficiaries in all the funds. In other words, depending on the number of persons directly insured, this allocation should be made so that there would be a fairer deal. Is this system going to work? We hope so. Let's take, I say, the first step. Let the new way in which we can actually see it, study it, and then we will have the time and add it, but also correct any flaws that will be determined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u374	Thank you, Mr. Ballis. Mr Petropoulos has been asked for the floor for some clarification. Minister, you have the floor for five minutes, and I ask you not to spend the year too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u375	Thank you, Mr President. It makes it easy for me to place Mr. Ballis to explain a few things. First of all, I would like to state that the Single Reporting and Health Insurance Agency is being established today. It was founded yesterday at the turn of thousands of members of the EDPS to vote for these changes. For the first time, there have been conditions of real, unified integration of all those insured in the EDPS, because there has been no such feature in all previous years. Evidently the same way must be seen in terms of the two funds for regional unions. I have to say that everyone through unity, who has the prerequisites to exist, has the obligation, I would say, is doomed to find solutions, because the evolution of the EDPS will be a development that is in the hands of all those involved. And there must be justice and equal treatment between all involved. That is why, Mr Ballis, I obviously fully accept the approach you are taking, that the distribution of the two funds is based on the direct members and not on dubious and fictitious calculations. I've given some legislative improvements earlier, and I have to give some explanations. Inside the law itself, insurance systems are included for the proper functioning of the EDPS to resolve issues and disharmonies, which, often, when you make such large areas, may change. It is foreseen that the Governing Council of the EDEA itself forms the terms of a regulation for the collection of all such contributions, which are now strengthened as a procedure with the provisions of the Public Revenue Code and which are collected through the CRL mechanism. So these procedures, with regard to a number of collections, should be settled by the decision of the Board of Directors of the EDEAP, which in any case is ratified by a decision of the Minister of Labour and Social Security, as well as by the codified statutes now, when these current arrangements are incorporated after the vote that will follow. I imagine that all the wings will adopt the amendment in question, so that we can now also give the entire legal status of the statute a safe and clear basis for all the parties involved. It's very important, and I'm not really ignoring the collection issues at all. That is why we are putting a ten-month partial payment of the old contributions due. It was reasonable to accept the comments made by employers, who said that if we did not put their own contribution from now, from the entry into force of the law, from a purely employers' contribution, from turnover rather than from the amount due, then we would have surprised them and would have been right to complain. That is why we have adopted in the provision in the proposed amendment the additional contribution of 2% of turnover to be determined, started to be paid and calculated as from the entry into force of the law. The relevant issues and the modalities for the collection of contributions must be seen flexibly in the regulation we are going to be doing. There are therefore issues relating to instruments and issues that need to be cleared up. I have already tabled an amendment to the ERT, which says about the final result to be achieved, because there are budgetary commitments and other issues which cannot be considered as revenue. Accordingly, we must see that such cases, in which there may be disharmonies, can be resolved by the recovery regulation. It is certain - and I would like to stress it for the interpretative need of my statements - that all those who are part of the EDPS and for the one-off provision, but also for supplementary pensions, are subject to the rules of successive insurance. So no one will lose a right on the basis of the provisions that were insured, no one will lose rights on the basis of future developments in social security law. Everyone may be safe with the wording that exists for successive insurance. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u376	Thank you, Minister, actually in time. The Parliamentary Representative of the River has the floor for twelve minutes. Come on, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u377	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, Mr Petropoulou, to stay a little bit on the subject of the EDPS, it is certainly a saving arrangement - we are not discussing it - and with many difficulties. It's about a fund that was two-five. Employers didn't pay. Consumers, citizens and others paid the place of employers. That was collaborative. I as a journalist, however, acknowledge that and I am glad that this regime is now over. Anyway, it was over, by the way, since the fund had been slapped. But Mrs Megalo-Economics has tabled an amendment and I see that she has focused on increasing doses from ten to twenty, twenty-four if I have listened well. I don't know if the evidence comes out with the studies, but look at it. I am thinking above all of the workers who, retrospectively, will now have to start paying. Do they have that money? Don't they have them? So please put this on your horizon, too. Ladies and gentlemen, at the same time as the government is working on its grand scheme for the social dividend, one in two Greeks owes tax, one in two borrowers has a'red' loan, only one in ten Greeks can save four hundred thousand Greeks and Greek women in September - just recently - could not pay their dues to the tax. Why am I saying this? To show that the climate and the effort to create, from Maximou, the history of the left-wing success story is crushed by reality itself, it is sometimes crushed by the words of comrades within SYRIZA, such as Friend, who recently told the Central Committee that "we are not coming out of comitology". Do we get out of the memorandum in August 2018? If we come out of the memorandum in August 2018, why, as of 1 January 2019, will we have further reductions of up to 18% in pensions? Then why would the tax-free rate fall to EUR 5,600 and a 500-euro employee a month later give a monthly tax next year? Then why was the country committed to the Tsipras Memorandum - Kammenos for primary surpluses of three and a half units by 2022 and then for two other units by 2060? And is it not a memorial when the country by 2116 -- for almost a century or two -- will it have mortgaged its real estate in the excess for foreigners and with the social dividend, which you, in 2014, were accusing of, in other words, the SYRIZA Members and the ANELs? When Samaras had then given the unemployed and the military the social divide, you said it was a cheap situation and you described it as a shame. I can see that. Mr. Tsipras said it in 2014. Now is it a sign of social policy to share a dividend that has come out of a recession in the economy by overtaxing everyone, direct or indirect? So, by overtaxation, especially those who do not have the economic potential to stand up to today? Myth, then, about success story left this time. But that's a matter. The country is affected by this strange SYRIZA attitude, but by saying abroad, but by saying among themselves, but by saying to another Minister and to us. The SYRIZA - ANEL government is fading and opposing all the time. Discovers enemies and denounces what he had done as opposition "significant". He's now destroying them and rejecting them. May I remind you, for example, of the'mark' of 'no house in the hands of a banker'? How many and how many MPs and current SYRIZA ministers - ANEL have taken a career outside the pacifist courts, so that no auctions can take place, with this motto 'no house in the hands of a banker'? Yesterday Mr Tsakalotos made a strict recommendation to accelerate auctions, in order to avoid a new recapitalisation of banks. "Don't dare think of going into auctions," said Mr. Tsipras. A national target is the return of young people to the homeland. Half a million young people - obviously the most restless and most, I would say, creative minds of this generation - are abroad. They offer their services abroad. They find work there, they study there, they develop as personalities there. How are they going to go back to Greece? Where will they work? And if you want, where will they study? What universities? Universities that have been converted into a verdict of criminal evidence? And it's amazing that anyone who disputes your virtual reality is automatically becoming your enemy, like the dean of the University of Macedonia. The announcement by the Ministry of Education and Mr Gavroglou - I shall say it very well from the Step - is a ridiculous announcement. You should first be particularly sensitive to the issues of education - and I refer to your SYRIZA colleagues - to tell the Minister to withdraw it. In fact, it has the site of the Ministry of Education and a paragraph, a section, a class entitled 'fake news'. Very clever and well done by the Minister, only Mr. Gavroglou omitted to the "fake news" to put his interviews for the abolition of pan-Hellenics, for the free access of students to universities, for a thousand and two things he has said and, unfortunately, proved to be "fake news". In the economy, the government of SYRIZA - ANEL discovered another enemy: the Parliament's Budget Office and Mr Liargova, of course, had made the conclusions and reports of the Parliament's Budget Office “significant” by 2014. But was Mr. Liargova wrong? Of course, he was wrong, yes, because he did not use up-to-date information, but the substance does not change. The essence, according to him, is that the debt must be set to survive the country. Has the SYRIZA - ANEL Government abandoned this objective? From the debt write-off you went to the 'cut' after the restructuring. Nice words to cover what you really believe. Or don't you believe it? But the point is who believes you with so many inconsistencies. Did Mr. Tsakalotos, after all, not fall out on his forecasts for the 2017 budget? It had fallen by 50%. In May, which passed us, it announced that GDP would reach 2.7%, after a few months it landed it to 1.6%, and if it finally closes more than 1%, we should also be pleased. Only when the targets for increasing national wealth are downgraded, debt is affected, far more than Mr Liargova's mistake. Instead of looking for the composition, instead of looking for a culture of other politicians - and not just culture, you are trying to break the world to a certain extent. You're constantly discovering - I'd say to some extent you're building - enemies to hide the problems under the carpet. Instead of showing determination to lawlessness, in this mess of the infractionality that exists in the universities, you get those who show the problem, as I told you, in the case of the dean of the University of Macedonia. You're trying to be with everyone, but you're not with anyone after all. However, society has other priorities, it says "as far as overtaxation, here with lawlessness, as far as the cover-up of reality, here with the construction of enemies, so far with the favourable treatment of unrepentant terrorists, such as Kufontina". Democracy, of course, is not afraid of anyone, but has not suffered amnesia, has no bump in the head and cannot remember who was picking up the bucket and killing 11 people in the back. One question now, too, to the head of the Ministry of Health. I want to raise the issue of the heart surgery clinic at the University Hospital in Patras, which has been closed since April. So Achaia is not covered in this area. Patients are either in Athens or in Yannina. But come where to Yanna there's a problem. Two hospitals exist there, the University Hospital and, of course, the "Hatzikosta". The ‘Hatzikota’ has no number of cardiac surgery. It's closed there, too. At the University Hospital of Ioannina there had been fifty - one heart surgery last year, but it reached a limit of saturation. So the patients leave the Yanna for Thessaloniki or Larissa. How can a citizen who lives in Achaea and Epirus feel? We want you to see this and give us the answers because it is not enough for a hospital to be a wheelchair and to refer incidents to another which, when it comes to a saturation point, refers them elsewhere. Leave the working conditions of doctors and scientific staff, which is the essence of the bill! Physicians at the University Hospital of Ioannina do their homework over the day. We're waiting for answers. Mr. Danellis was placed for the substance of the bill. I told you more about political issues. I heard Mr Kontonis - and I imagine he said it at the edge of his speech - speaking of the issue of Kufontina and of this more general situation, saying that 'we have never approved a single murder'. Hey, that's what's missing! Is that what we're dealing with? What if he should or shouldn't approve of a terrorist murder? The point is to disapprove them and not just in words but in practice! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u378	Thank you, Mr. Amyras. There are four fellow speakers left: Mr Papaleou, Mr Mandas, Mr Economou and Mrs Megalo-Economist, to complete the list of speakers. They have not spoken to any parliamentarians. I would ask the Parliamentary Groups to inform the Parliamentary Representatives of SYRIZA, the New Democracy, the JRC and the Independent Greeks if they want to be set up, because otherwise we will proceed to the end of the procedure. Mr Papaliou has the floor from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group for five minutes, followed by Mr Saridis, the Parliamentary Representative of the Centroon Union. A Member of Parliament, a parliamentary representative alternate, will be put in order to be able to share the time. Here, you have the floor, Mr. Papaliou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u379	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, due to time, I will confine myself to the part of the bill on amendments to the organisation of the working time of doctors and dentists of the ERC. These amendments aim to promote the health and safety of doctors in the provision of their services and to introduce protection rules against their occupational deterioration. This legislative intervention attempts to harmonise Greek legislation with European Directive 2003/88, to exempt Greece from the imposition of a high financial fine and to restructure working time, so that improvements are made to the current system of hospital doctors' newspapers and therefore also to the care of patients. The new way of organising the working time of doctors protects them from problems caused by their health due to long-term stay and health services in a working environment of work intensity and stress, in particular in the GLP, in the emergency departments of hospitals, as well as in other health establishments. At the same time, it shields them against medical errors or accidents, both of themselves and of third parties, as it ensures daily and weekly rest that works preventively as a safety factor. So this bill is a safety net for doctors and patients themselves and produces multiplier benefits that positively affect the proper functioning of hospitals and other medical units and ultimately improves the health system. The draft law, therefore, with its changes, ensures respect for the working rights of doctors and in this context regulates all forms of on-call. It ensures the safe and quality care of patients, does not affect doctors' incomes, since the annual on-call budget is not only maintained, but is also strengthened as a result of an increase in the hourly allowance per grade of 6%. Finally, in conjunction with the operational support of the ESS and the reform in primary health care, the bill is expected to contribute to improving the services provided and achieving the objective of universal, equal and effective coverage of the health needs of citizens. The regulations of the draft law show the direction and the necessary flexibility is given to the system for gradual adaptation to these regulations, so as not to disturb the proper functioning of public health services units. Because of time, I will not go into any more detail. I would just like to stress that legislative intervention for the organisation of the working time of hospital doctors is part of a set of broader interventions to improve the public health system already established, such as targeted recruitment of permanent medical staff, the launch of other recruitments specialising in emergency medicine, which will provide the emergency departments with the emergency services and the new organisation and operation of primary health care by introducing the TMGs, etc. This draft law constitutes an institutional change in the organisation of working time. It is addressed to both doctors, rationalizing their working hours and thus protecting their health, as well as patients, to whom health services are provided by doctors in health and without being unduly burdened with fatigue and stress. It is clear that these regulations, ladies and gentlemen, are open to adaptation according to the area offered by health services but also to the particular conditions of employment of all categories of doctors. And, of course, in this context, recruitment of other doctors is a prerequisite for the complete implementation of the system. And one last thing, politician. With its present presence, the New Democracy proves that following the ongoing denials of its narratives it continues to operate hypocritically and disorientally in relation to the daily heated problems of the citizen, some of whom in the health sector are trying to deal with and solve the bill. This is done by you, gentlemen, of the New Democracy, who, allegedly, are concerned with the daily lives of citizens. At the same time, you insist on an agenda that shows a climate of fear and instills hatred in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u380	Thank you, Mr. Papaliou. For twelve minutes, the Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, Mr Saridis, has spoken. After Mr Saridis, Mr Mandas is followed by a parliamentary representative. I see Mrs. Jufi, who probably wants to be placed. Here, Mr Saridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u381	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Centro Association will vote 'at present' in today's bill. It's a one-way road for us. You leave us no choice. Unfortunately, as it turns out today, we have not left behind the bad law-making practice with urgent, urgent procedures, nor have we exceeded as a Parliament, after almost three years of governance of SYRIZA, the habit of allowing us to set the timetable under which we are legislating the fear and threat of the imposition of European fines. How many times we have legislated in this Chamber under this threat! For example, I could tell you about fresh products, such as garbage. Under this threat, we legislate, under the fines we pay. He should have had the courage and Civic Opposition and PASOK, but you too as a government to explain to the Greek people why he pays all these fines. However, regardless of the way we legislate, the essence remains that what we legislate directly and often dramatically influence the reality of our fellow citizens, while shaping and defining their everyday lives. At the same time, they impose the conditions under which these people live. You say to them: 'We're cutting off your pensions. Live or "we're cutting off your wages. Live or "We don't care if your loans from "green" become "red". Live.’ But how will these people live? What is the decent life we are offering from here to Greek citizens? Therefore, rather than once again insisting on stressing and pointing out from this step the dangers of derogating legislation which enhances the depreciation of parliamentaryism in the conscience of our fellow citizens, I will try to express our legitimate concerns about what we are watching happening around the health sector. Ladies and gentlemen, at the moment we are talking about and legislating here there is a very important committee of inquiry into the scandals in the health field. This in itself attaches particular importance to all legislative initiatives by the Ministry of Health. This is because, although we are doing so pending its conclusion, we, too, are attending public meetings with the citizens and a little - very much - have reached our conclusions. The sure thing is that no one disputes that there has been mismanagement, mismanagement, urgency, irresponsibility. Know that the world's appreciation is not wrong. Only we here have to give the world evidence rather than make assessments or leave the appreciations for the world. What we are investigating is if all these things were deliberately done, that is, if there was a fraud. We do not wonder, however, whether everything was going at a steady rate - and even before our eyes - from bad to worse, without anyone finally doing anything to stop this course. Considering the crusade environment of exchanging water, sues, mud and the almost war climate that the government and Civic Antipolitics have created between them, it is very difficult to believe, however naive it may be, that the first priority within this Chamber is the common good and the safeguarding of the public interest. The dilemma and dilemma “or you are with us or are with others” dominate, unfortunately, in 2017 in public dialogue, after seven years of the Memorandum Crisis, where the Greek people have arrived. Locations by relevant persons, such as the recent statement, the public assessment by the Minister of State Mr. Polakis of the percentages of doctors who require a "mail" compared to those who do not say "no", if the "book" is given, and compared to those who have never received it and will never accept it, they are testing the resistance of social cohesion in our country. The same applies whenever two institutions are classified for use, where appropriate, of counterfeit data. Democracy is being affected whenever the political system slips and loses credibility. There is no number, no figure, nothing in this country or in here, which has at least two or three readings that do not appear in multiple narratives, always depending on the party identity of the speaker presenting it. This is the sad context in which you are calling, Mr Minister of Health, to support your urgent legislative initiative, but you have not first made sure to respond to us satisfactorily and with arguments about the questions or concerns that have been put to you. You didn't answer any of our substantiated objections. No one knows exactly what the consequences and consequences of today's bill on the operation of hospitals in the country will be. The future will show exactly what we do state law today in here. The only sure, positive, of course, is the provision of Article 10 for the payment of the flight allowance to those involved in the aerospace. I shall close my position with two words on the amendment to the EDPS. What I would like to comment on is that the consensus accompanying this amendment allows us to optimise, as this consensus in itself represents a very important victory in the difficult survival of the journalistic community in order to regain its independence and thereby preserve its credibility. A responsible citizen is the useful citizen. It is a useful citizen in democracy, but it is the informed citizen. Without strong and independent journalism, the country will never be able to make progress. We will support this amendment in our vote. And one final point: The government's success story in the economy, in the view of the Central Association, is beginning to collapse. Investments we don't see. Development we don't see. Depression we see, disappointment we see, deadlocks we see. A large part of the Greek people cannot afford taxes. And loan protection dreams are falling apart, as foreigners claim by the end of 2018 that auctions have been completed and that the issue has been closed for all types of loans. I'm afraid there will be a risk of a new recapitalisation of the banks ahead of the upcoming stress test. I hope I'm disproved. I will insist on the proposal - it has been heard several times by this Step and not only by the Central Association - that borrowers can repay their loans at prices comparable to those of foreign funds within a reasonable period of time, at least at the level of first residence without other assets being present. This government owes, it has a responsibility, it has an obligation to see it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u382	Thank you, Mr Saridis, and the economy in time. Mr Mandash now has the floor for five minutes from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u383	I shall start with an appeal, ladies and gentlemen. In this Chamber on this bill, there have been so many excesses and inaccuracies that, frankly, I have not counted so many times for a specific bill. And I say this sincerely and very seriously. I do not think this helps to the credibility of the dialogue that is taking place in Parliament. They do not help at all, especially when they are expressed by party leaders. They are not helping to find solutions and answers, where solutions and answers can really be found. Because to say from morning to night what could be done in general, that suddenly, for example, we will do mass recruitment in hospitals, and we know very well that at this time of decades the most massive injection of public health is taking place in the public health system, if we throw that away, I think it is not helping to make a cool dialogue. What's the general picture? Today, this general picture, which runs far beyond the world, has been attempted - I would say - with the famous exit for a two-day leave with too many limitations by Mr Koufontina. A veil has been attempted, on the basis of this fact - seriously otherwise - but with certain limits. I would say that first of all they are the limits of compliance with the rule of law procedures. This must in any case be expressed by all of us here and by our public word. That defines things. What's the world event? Of course it's Paradise Papers. This global event, which runs far beyond the world, because it has a 'nuclear revelation'. And among them are some Greek names and all that noise about 'no more' I think that this very matter is trying to obscure it. What does that involve? What's he revealing? You'll tell me, "We didn't know?" Okay, too many people don't know that. Perhaps he doesn't understand it so practically. It reveals that an elite, in a very specific, legal and legitimate way, while thousands of people, millions of people, tens of millions, hundreds of millions of people around the world are hungry, cannot find water, food, lose their lives from diseases that are from the past and the past century, this very small elite finds the way - I say again, legitimate, legal, I don't know how else to say it - to evade and enrich asymmetrically at the expense of the overwhelming majority of society. This is the "big" today. I'm going straight to the bill. What exactly does this bill do? Because here we've lost every concept of arithmetic. It says: We had a 24-hour on-call, with these doctors we have now and with this effort of the very important injection we have made into the public health system. All those in fact - those who say different things - know that we have been on duty and are still on duty, not on a 24-hour basis, but on a 24-hour basis, and on a weekly basis. So instead of continuing this practice, what does it say? It says that more than twelve hours on paper can't be done, because you're not safe for yourself and for the services you're offering. Is that an abortion? Do we, in other words, lose any sense of serious, realistic dialogue within the specific things he says? To say it dismantles and elasticizes working relationships? I listen very carefully to the criticism from the Left of people we have joined in the struggles for many years together. I'm trying to see. I read it, I read it again, I read it, I see it from here, I see it from there. I don't know how stupid I am that I can't figure out where, on the wish side, we're elasticizing working relationships, and all of a sudden, 24/7, while we're going to 12 hours, we're destroying doctors. Are we kidding? I mean, we're kidding. We cannot discuss such conditions seriously. Let us say a thousand times that the system cannot, as a whole, apply this serious incision from tomorrow, which supports the need, on the other hand, to strengthen the public system by permanent recruitment. Yes, we have to take advantage of it and exploit it, politically I mean. This is our argument. However, to say - and I shall end at once, Mr President - that 12 hours is actually longer than 24 hours, that does not exist. How do we do it? Let's sit down and watch all the programs, wherever you want, in whatever composition you want, see what happens today and what happens with this bill the next day and fight together to strengthen the public health system. Finally, a great deal of work - and I say this sincerely, because I have experienced it very closely - on the political leadership of the Ministry of Labour, which has been able to bring this solution to the ERCEA. It has been a difficult effort, which I think has resulted in a significant result that has been rewarded by a overwhelming majority in the media sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u384	Thank you, Mr. Mada. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty students and students and three educational attendants from the 5th Municipal School of Volos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Economou, you have the floor for five minutes with tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u385	Always from you. Well, when I heard that this bill would come in the form of an emergency, I really wondered what it would be like to me. Emergency government's initiative on health? There were many issues I have in mind that it should have been the contents of this bill. In fact, recent visits to public hospitals in the health sector under my responsibility, too, I think that they would give rise to many such initiatives not to us but to everyone and above all to the political leadership, which was responsible for the bad situations that we meet every week in public hospitals. I believe, in other words, that this horrible initiative by the Governor of the "Lolian" to say that the next surgery, my dear Mr Papadopoulos, would be a very good opportunity for you in March 2018 to bring as an emergency a bill that would examine and regulate these enormous anticipations of the ESS surgery. And don't think it's just the 'Lolian' but, anyway, the 'Lolian' was condemned to us and it was an issue, which we brought to parliamentary scrutiny. I think that such issues, like the intensive ones, exist. I heard the Minister earlier when he said that all matters had been dealt with. We, when we discussed with the Labour Association, took a completely different picture of the ICUs at the moment, about the MAHs, which, of course, do not exist, are not working. So I'm saying it's probably going to want to face the hundred and twenty-six gaps, which are currently the intensive ones in the country. Neither this nor one, nor the other. Finally, we learn as an urgent matter of the Community directive as a result of the fact that, like you, admitted in the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment, the Working Environment, the Working Environment, the Working Environment and the Environment, as well as in the Committee on Social Affairs. I do not know now what may be there, a little of all I suspect where since 2015, we have reached the end of 2017 that you have not solved this issue, which you claim is from 2005 old history, which we have heard in a very glamorous way until I would say by various colleagues and by SYRIZA that everyone describes us as their adventure and prehistorics in the field of the National Health System, what each went through in a health center, what great trials has suffered and really has suffered them, I am not saying that people have lied to. But I never thought that a central politician would come to the left and now implement the policies to solve this great problem that has been perpetuating for many years, decades, and they would have to take the epidemic of the troika and the European nomenocles, which will come to tell us how to solve doctors' working hours. Does it not at least make you wrong to claim it here in Parliament and say that all of what the old, bad governments have created and suffered thousands of doctors in all these decades will come a European directive which will give the final solution to the problem and which you are bringing to it late? I also told you in committee the urgency I do not think it was the directive, the directive was the pretext. In any case, you had to put the directive into practice, develop it, and this issue had to be done anyway, even with your own shortcomings and weaknesses. The issue was the second point of the bill, the crises. Listen to see, Paulakis actually revealed it by saying: "I have the TEIs to make some appointments and I must have the tool and the way in which I will do these appointments, the recruitments of doctors." You brought it here. Of course, you are very nice and classic to falsify words and create a propagandaist front in matters. No one has raised you from New Democracy the subject of the draw. And you understood what we put on you. In other words, our rapporteur, Costas Vlassis, told you: “Do you not go on putting the coordinator in the same bucket with the manager? Because we have a few coordinators and dozens, not to say thousands, directors, whatever you draw will be the director." So you're actually blocking the coordinators. That's what he told you. He told you something very specific. You did not hear it, but you did not hear it, because you have a tape and a too far to say, and this far-reaching thing says that we raised a question of draw-up. The subject of the draw really posed it for the flagship at school. But don't get confused, we didn't put it here. We said here that you can't assimilate the coordinator to the co-ordinator, who's there to do it by the drawer. There is no rapporteur in this form. Finally, in a few words, we blame you and we claim that you are trying to control the next elections ahead of us - in view of the elections - the notices of doctors, the few things you are going to publish, whether at TLs or in hospitals, and go check them out to get any of your own people. That's our accusation. That's the charge you're going to bear and you're going to hear it. When I told you a year ago in the Committee on Social Affairs that "compensate and finish the clawback netting from the EEA", Bersimis went out and collected the next day all the world in the EEA. Mr Vandemeulebroucke, you have now actually taken the responsibility of this organization under the presidential decree. But when we come to the question about the EEA, which we are bringing here, there will be an extensive debate. When we told you this, you gathered the providers the next day and said, "Get out an announcement about the "bad" Economou and the "bad" New Democracy that wants to pick you up the clawback. I don't want to pick you up the clawback." And you lied, too, that I was going to collect it and collect it immediately. As if we don't all know what's going on with the setbacks. You were lying. Now, the time has come for matters to grow. Gathered up a lot of clawbacks, gathered a lot of loose ends. This is the end of the time that you did and you sold a good business, in fact, mood.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u386	Mr. Economou, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u387	I shall conclude, Mr President. You are now loading past years and future years. Isn't that right, Mr. Vlassi? It's also for the next few years. So you have predicted the clawback for the next few years. And within three days, all providers will sign. It's a big cry on the market. Now those who ran to sign announcements you put them in front of me and against the New Democracy may have regretted it. But it's okay. Because God loves the thief, but also loves the housekeeper, for all things comes the hours and moments revealed. I want to finish and say that the issues which are open at the moment for health are too much. For example, the issue that has arisen with medicines would perhaps be a bill of urgent importance, because we are being brought forward and are being denounced by patients' associations. Leave 'ROCHE'. Georgiadis said it very well, and I expect to see how you respond to the accusation that 60 million of the clawback of the hospital would go - because you took it out of article 14 - in the EEA clawback. But your intention was specific and recorded.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u388	Finish this, Mr. Economou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u389	I would like to ask, however, if medicines, for which a company comes and says 'I no longer go around', in this world, who is anxiously waiting, why does he have a great health problem and will he suddenly not have the medical coverage that an average European citizen has, through your own policies, tell me what you will come to tell him in a little while? Because it may have been the first case the story of 'ROCHE', but we have the image and we hear and debate and see. We see the institutions of the drug companies and tell us that this will be a chain of developments. How do you think about dealing with these matters? And when we talked about an overly urgent health bill procedure, I say that these issues obviously want the government to deal with, to prevent evil. And not only that we have not seen, but we have seen a settlement of issues, which you, on your own responsibility for almost three years - because you have reached three years of fun - fun - you have left them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u390	Mr. Economou, please don't make me interrupt you too much. You're almost ten minutes away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u391	I'm closing, Mr. President. So this policy, which you are conducting, is a politically disastrous one. We've told you before. We consider this twin of the Ministry of Health's political leadership to be being disastrous about health, it is a dangerous twin, it has to leave here and now, of course, along with the government package. Package with the government, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u392	Thank you, Mr. Economou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u393	Along with...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u394	Don't laugh. You'll see that too, as we have seen with the Polish Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u395	Mr. Economou, please. You're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u396	You're disgusting and ungodly!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u397	Hey, let us out of here! You're embarrassed that, by a trade unionist of the joke, you're making the minister and you're not ashamed!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u398	Minister, please. Don't start fighting now!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u399	Hero!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u400	I don't know what you're talking about in the background. I say it in front of you. It's the reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u401	Fifteen health ministers have lived, that's enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u402	Ladies and gentlemen, you don't sound! You know that? Can you stop dialogue? You know you don't sound and sound just among yourselves. Your camera doesn't even record your microphones. You don't have to show now. We have a smooth process, we get to the end. If ever you can create issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u403	Mr President, I would like to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u404	Mr. Loverdo, you know you're not entitled to the floor. Tell me what you'd like?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u405	I am entitled not to it for secondary reasons, because we have agreed not to have secondary periods.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u406	In the emergency, there are no secondments. That's why.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u407	Of course, there won't be either.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u408	Please in just a minute, very soon. Don't make me interrupt you too. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u409	Mr President, the Ministry of Labour has responded to the SEAP amendment, which we have said we will vote and do not change our position. But my reaction to the tritology of the Ministry of Labour is very specific and simple. The Minister told us that there was a study not proportionate, but a study. I hear that the study has been prepared by Mr. Robolis and Mr. Maryos. For anyone who knows the subject, he understands that these people are too valid. The fact that such a study has been prepared does not mean anything to the Greek Parliament if it is not presented. And the reasoning that I have it and you don't have to have it is very unfortunate. We therefore want this study. I also catch up with what I said earlier in my speech. This study shows that with these sources of funding, which will lead to redundancies or horizontal cuts, the fund does not come out, the ERCEA does not come out. And we are voting for a provision to improve things. If they tell us that this provision gives a breath for a month, even though it hurts many journalists, we can hear it. But they cannot say, Mr President, that this is a long-term regulation, which will not be needed to intervene immediately afterwards and based on a study that does not bring it to the House. So what's gonna happen to him? Whatever he knows, we'll find out.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u410	It's clear, Mr. Loverdos. Step by step, Mrs. Big Economics, the Independent MEP. Completed the list of speakers. Parliamentary representatives and the rapporteurs' secondaryities remain and the Minister, of course, is left. Here, Mrs. Big Economics, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u411	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, I tabled an amendment on the subject of the EDPS. We know that the EDPS had liquidity problems after the abolition of the ad. This move, from all sides, and from the government, I think it was very good - and perhaps it was too late - in order to save the fund. It is not a time to leave the workers in their luck and not to help them. After all, in the vote that took place, between tens of thousands of active journalists, six thousand hundred and twenty-seven, about 92% voted in favour of changing the statutes of their fund. The fund was already under a collapse and it had reached its limits. So I agree with today's amendment with a general number of 1334 and a specific 101. I asked you to make a correction to the amendment. In paying ten instalments to the retrospective contributions, I think it is a little bit of time for journalists. I am not talking about the great journalists, who may at other times have taken huge sums of money for some of their appearances. But nowadays, however, the small journalists who run all day to cover up reports throughout Greece, after an investigation I have done, I have seen that 600 and 700 euros are being paid. It is humanly impossible to cover current and retrospective contributions in just ten instalments. They cannot, at the same time, cover both their retroactive contributions and their current money. Now you're gonna tell me how the fund, since it's under a collapse, will it cover up and how will he give his pensions or drugs? There are journalists who have a lot of health problems and their colleagues have their own money in good time to cover them. I thought of something else. The government announces the hundred and twenty instalments to public or funds debtors. I think that only twenty-four instalments would have been a small breath for these people, at least in their retrospective contributions. Now you'll tell me - I've looked into this too - it's about businessmen as well. In a similar way, I think that the employers have given retroactive effect to 2% of the first contribution on turnover. Minister, did you give employers 2% of the first contribution to their turnover? So at least get employers to pay in four instalments their contributions and give journalists the opportunity to pay back their retroactive contributions in twenty-four instalments. It can be started on 31-12-2017, although I think you could give them a gift and make it on 31-1-2018, but I'm afraid you won't come after me. Give them at least a breath of relief and at least show your human face. I think you have that possibility. Consider it again and if you can make it acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u412	Thank you, Mrs. Big Housekeeper, in fact next year.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u413	Can I have the floor for two minutes to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u414	Minister, we must not open a dialogue. You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u415	For three minutes, Mr. President. I'll be very brief. After all, I did not expand much in my speech. Mrs. Big Economics, we all have to support this effort. They themselves who are involved in the issue of the EDPS have fully supported this option, which we have respected. Parliament must count on this decision. As far as your proposal is concerned, if you look at the provisions, there are those provisions within the very operating procedure of the EDPS, which enables it to give such solutions in these cases. In other words, the Board of Directors of the ERCEA can regulate such matters, i.e., in how many instalments it will be, etc. And he can do it. This is where the FBI does it on a number of issues. Will the EDPS not be able to do it? It is clear that a regulation can be provided for. I am therefore sure that your proposal will be heard by the Management Board. We do not need to put it in the amendment, not to disturb the agreement reached in Parliament from all sides outside - I think - of the Golden Dawn. With regard to the subject and the concern of Mr Loverdou for the proportionate study, the EDEAP is currently in debt, i.e. the usual debts to suppliers. His property is sufficient and covers all his obligations vis-à-vis everyone. It's a body that certifies its healthy basis to be able to continue. From there on, as you will see, the provisions provide for a proportionate study per year, and therefore the EDEAP itself should find the solutions to these benefits, which are better than those already paid to the other bodies. Obviously this development will always be monitored. In any case, each social security institution must monitor its potential with a tendency to improve and improve benefits. That is what I expect to happen. An improvement can be made. Because in 2015 we had 20 million receipts. Within three years the receipts of the EDPS amounted to almost half of what was collected before the ad. Already the situation has been on a course of very difficult survival and under the conditions that have been set not only will it breathe but will greatly improve the horizon of its sustainability. Inside his mechanism he has the same elements as he needs to function self-powerfully and correct what he needs to correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u416	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kefaliannis has the floor. Mr. Kefaliannis, I would like to inform you that since the President of your parliamentary group, Mr. Mitsotakis, has been placed, you are normally entitled six minutes. I'll give you eight. I shall do the same for Mr Karathanasopoulos, because the chairmen of the parliamentary groups have spoken. Here, you have the floor, Mr. Kefaliannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u417	A slight tolerance, Mr President. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I too cannot begin with the subject of topical and urgent debate. And, unfortunately, the issue of news over the last few hours, since yesterday, is the issue of Mr Koufantina, who has been asked for permission from prisons. We heard a few hours ago a discrepancy between Mr. Kontonis and colleagues from the Democrat Opposition. And I would say that the Minister of Justice tried with one - if you would like - a smart way to say that Mr Koufantinas actually used the legal framework and thus obtained the permission that every Greek citizen is entitled to. I will not go to the morale of this thing, which I think I will go to the conscience of the overwhelming majority of the Greek people. Something that Mr. Minister of Justice has artificially concealed, ladies and gentlemen, is that under Article 1 of Law No.4322/2015 - another law by Mr. Paraskevi, which abolished Type III prisons - is deleted, among other things, Article 1(11) of Law No.4274/2014, which he said? No licenses shall be granted to detainees located in Type III detention stores or in separate Type III sections. What was one of the first legislations of SYRIZA and Independent Greeks when they took over power? To abolish Type III prisons and in effect to change the legal framework, so that even terrorists, common murderers, such as Mr Koufantinas, can have the right to apply for permission. I also call on the Step, publicly, Mr. Condonis, to disprove me. So it cannot come along and say that it has used the legal framework when the government, a member of which is itself, has actually changed the legal framework, so that terrorists, such as Mr Koufantinas and many others, can then apply for permission and examine their request. So from there we will have to see and finally decide in this Chamber who we are with. And, unfortunately, we have also seen from Mr Kontonis that he does not strongly condemn any facts. I am not talking about terrorism, but, for example, when it came to collectives such as the 'Rubicon', which is, in fact, a criminal organisation and obviously not collective. This is another invention of public speech. And, of course, Mr. Kontonis also has to be placed in the finals, because we have seen him make a lot of comments on the decision-making of the courts, if, by the end of the day, Mr. Koufontinas came out yesterday. In the case of Herianna, which had become a whole sirial in this Chamber for days, Mr. Kontonis had been placed in public, he had his own opinion, but in any case, as the Minister of Justice at the time, of course, he was placed. So we see in a similar case, like today, a legal structure, but on the substance of the matter not to be placed. So I call on him, too, from the Stepma, with a public position, to tell us whether or not Mr Koufantinas came out of prison yesterday. As to whether these authorisations are met, Mr Kontonis also made something clever, that is, he referred to the formal requirements for an application for a licence, since, as I said before, you, ladies and gentlemen, had prevented and changed the legal framework. Maybe some of you didn't understand it, but that really happened. You know very well that the lawyers are watching us here that it is a different matter for the standard conditions to be met and for there to be a substantial and in-depth examination of this request from the relevant body. It is something that we leave to the crisis of the Greek people. I also think that the questions I raised are specific and should be put to the Ministry of Justice. I'm going through the bill too soon. Minister, let me start with the introductorys on the subject of the urgency of the bill. The rapporteur has also told you that in committee too. I do not think it was explained on the part of the Ministry, why this bill had to come under the urgency procedure, namely not to give enough time to Members and ladies and gentlemen, to place them both in the committee at various meetings, but also in the House. I think it is something you should say in your speech, why this bill should have come in this process. As I also think I should refer to the fact that it is only by name that this directive is incorporated, as it concerns only six of the twenty articles in the bill. The remaining fourteen, in other words, two thirds of the bill, in fact, relate to various provisions, which you have put into the bill. Nevertheless, I cannot help but mention the fact that the first six articles of the bill, relating in essence to the incorporation of this directive, are following the condemnation decision, taken on 23 December 2015 - obviously during your own governance - that there have been delays and not proper monitoring of the process on the part of the Ministry. So the fine or rather the threat of the fine occurred because, obviously, the administration of the then Ministry of Health, among other things, did not take the necessary steps to incorporate these directives or possibly follow these procedures by our own law. Let me remind you that there was a President-in-Office decree, the a.d.76/2005, which, in fact, referred to there and had gone into specific right directions, as regards the resolution of doctors' working time and may not have been fully followed in the coming years, but had laid the foundations that, unfortunately, some of the Ministry of Health's leaderships did not follow. I come to Rule 7 very soon, Minister. We've been telling you now that there's a great risk of being unconstitutional. The relevant Scientific Committee of Parliament tells you so. I read in particular Article 7: "It is noted that the principle of sovereignty, both when selecting the staff of the public administration and during its service development, has direct constitutional assurance in Article 103(7)(b) of the Constitution." Finally, the comment of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, inter alia, ‘In the light of the above considerations, it is considered whether the reduction in the number of doctors involved in the above boards, in particular for participation in the relevant administrative judgement’ - that you have, of course, corrected - ‘without a degree in medicine and outside the medical service it serves the principle of sovereignty and hence the public interest’. We say this, Minister, so that you do not then be surprised if it is swallowed as an anti-constitutional. It will not be your fault either the justice or the judgments of the courts. I would like to point out to you now, the Scientific Committee of the Parliament has also pointed out this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u418	That's changed. It's changed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u419	Amended as regards the administrative staff, not amended with regard to the number of doctors. That's what the committee says in it. Read it, Minister, more carefully.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u420	Same number...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u421	Please don't engage in dialogue because you don't sound. Continue, Mr. Kefaliannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u422	Look at it and when you get the floor, you can answer it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u423	That's not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u424	I'm on my way to Article 15. You are making a provision, Minister, for Article 15, for the fact that the procedures which are in the courts are no longer in place, which we - in principle - are opposed to interfering with the legislative power in the part of the judiciary. In fact, however, we have to look at this and deal with it. Of course, I can tell you that you have put - if you like - in the measure of excess - in the explanatory statement that for the first time this phenomenon has been dealt with. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Let me remind you that before your office and the previous government, uninsured people could go in and not pay a price. Unfortunately, you are constantly trying to falsify this not personally but your Government in general. The only thing added to the rule of SYRIZA and Independent Greeks is that illegal immigrants can actually go to hospitals and be treated without paying anything. But look at the legislative framework, Minister, very carefully and I think we will agree on that. But I'm going to reverse it. Is there an image from the government's point of view, what are we talking about? For I, at least, read the explanatory statement, all I saw was an amount of 264,000 for Papageorgiou. As Ministry, do you have a picture of what amount we're talking about? Because here in plenary we have to talk about specific amounts. There are hundreds of thousands of euros, is there a million euros? I'll give you a suggestion. Instead of legislative power interfering with the judiciary and, in fact, interrupting the trials and showing that we, as a parliament, intervene in the matter of justice, why do you not predict that if this money is small - because it seems to be at least millions, we are talking about a very specific sum - to include it in the famous surplus, which you will present as a government, to put it in? I'm talking about our weakest fellow citizens. If we are talking about a small amount, let us remove the surplus, and these people, instead of paying for that money, go from the state budget and the hospitals, do not have any deficits. It is something that I think you can see, provided you intervene in the work of justice and, in fact, prevent judicial decisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u425	Please finish, Mr. Kefaliannis. You've reached ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u426	I shall conclude, Mr President. As far as the rest of the news is concerned, I think we would need hours in fact to comment. I just think - and I shall end with this, Mr President, that hearing from this government is actually about morality when they have left too many big, unanswered questions - I have listened with great attention to Mr Manda, earlier on, to the Paradise Papers and offshores, etc. - when there is an unanswered question, for example, of the party body, the newspaper "AGEY", which we have been asking for months now what is the offshore that is behind and there is no answer, when, unfortunately, there are many questions we have raised, I think it is a little too much exaggeration, to show to our side and to say that we are actually trying to change the timeliness and we are not discussing the bill but we are talking about irrelevant issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u427	Thank you, Mr. Kefaliannis. Parliamentary spokesman from SYRIZA, Mr Merope Jufi, has the floor for twelve minutes, followed by Karathanasopoulos from the JRC. Mrs. Jufi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u428	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard - and the noble rapporteur of the New Democracy did so just now, and also its first-class members, including its Chief - of the New Democracy. The New Democracy chooses for the reading of the news, I would say, the selective amnesia, since the news of which all the world is discussing is the revelations that have arisen from 'exemplary papers'. I understand, as a doctor, that the mechanism of refusal is reasonable, since the Greek extensions include the close involvement of some of its sites and the answers that they can give, like the one they have said before about 'AUGY' - where the full answers have been given to the official bodies - leave them to be exposed to morals, society, but let me say in common sense. The New Democracy, unfortunately, disfellowshipped from social reality, hostile to any idea and step forward, based, of course, on strong forces of the local economic establishment and also of the media friends, makes its own timeliness, unable to understand its decisive responsibilities for the situation in the country and, unfortunately, takes its part in a terrorist tactic. It describes and advertises from the middle a Greek chaos, violence, insecurity, lawlessness and crime. He tries to build on this sand an opposition line with slander and slander cries. Unbearable populism, mud, false, superproductive modelling, exploitation of any real tragedy. Unfortunately, this is becoming absolutely conscious, asymmetrically, slandering, targeted, with the aim of morally depreciating its political opponents. Unfortunately, today we have seen a parallel tactic, followed by the spokesman for the Democratic Integration, who, at first, chose to speak of a retired article, since he had prepared it and even accompanied it with a sanctuary of psalmology and allergy to previous movers. He even tried to deceive the Minister personally and also the representative of the area, Mr Barnabas, saying that he is unreasonable and that is why I said before and now his statement, which is there, on the bill currently tabled by the government and which will soon be a law. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Merope Jufi, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I would say that he has also chosen an extreme, derogatory behavior toward the descendants of his so-called throne at the Ministry of Health, telling us that this is a booze. I repeat that psychologically I understand it as a serious and unsurpassed trauma to this loss. So I move on to the bill itself, and I will say here to Mr Kefaliannis, who said 'why did you not do it', that we were essentially obliged to harmonise our country's medical legislation as early as 2003, Mr Kefaloyannis. Right now, what are we supposed to do? To rid our country of imposing this high financial penalty, but we are using this difficult situation, because we all agree that the current system is extremely burdensome for both doctors and patients and, while respecting the difficulties, we are trying to make a better reorganisation. This will certainly have a gradual adaptation, otherwise it is certain that the operation of public health services units will be further disrupted. But I have to say once again that it does not change anything with regard to the working acquis of hospital doctors and the criticism of an anti-virtual legislation is not substantiated. It's not increasing working time. There are no individual contracts and flexible working relationships planned by the previous ones, such as locum, round shifts, project contracts. There will be no unpaid work and the budget of the newspapers will be kept in full. More specifically, Mr Mandais has referred to this. Time is organised on a 12-hour basis, with an effort to phase out twenty-four-four on-calls. I will also testify to my personal experience here. It has been a fair, time-consuming request for all of us, who have made active on-calls, to be able to be on-call for twelve hours and to be paid for twenty-four. My fellow Members can hear me, it is obvious that they understand that this is a step forward. I said before that the regular working hours of hospital doctors are maintained and cyclical hours are not applied. But one thing which is very important, and I think it has not been stressed, is that we ought to take part in the on-call review of all the specialists and specialist doctors of all levels. It is a fair, safe regulation for the patient, but also a request from all younger colleagues. It is one of the reasons, together with other efforts we are making, to strengthen the work of younger colleagues in order to prevent what we call their departure to other countries in Europe. Of course we cannot talk about better wages, but I think we are taking the first step towards improving working conditions and being open to discussion, how we will improve their educational framework. On the other hand, the exemption clause, which doctors are obliged to declare, if they work for more than 40 hours, which will have a transitional effect, sets a ceiling. Was there, ladies and gentlemen, so far an upper limit that one had to work? It therefore sets a ceiling on overworking, but takes into account the fact that, due to the low wages in public hospitals, there may be a low level of support and the current incomes of doctors. The ready-to-calls are compensated. What can't be done is if someone is on the alert of readiness and comes to the hospital, will be rewarded as long as he makes an active on-call. Of course, if it exceeds 12 hours, it will also have a compensatory period. It cannot be for a doctor who is in his home and has not been to the hospital and is on his way to demand that this time be accompanied by a compensatory measure. Of course, it's not the day off. On the contrary, it is an obligation after night shifts and night watches and weekends to be granted. At the moment, you know that many colleagues who do this work did not take the day off the next day. They chose either within the week or packed the days later. Now this is done in a mandatory way and also ensures the health issues of the doctor who is on the watch and also of the patients who are asked to minister. I would therefore like to say that by these arrangements, what we are trying to do, is a first step in improving the everyday life of our colleagues who are in the big hospitals. There is a need, of course, for much more to be done. My agony is, how things can be realised the next day. There must be an open dialogue, which includes the local conditions, the people who are expected to support the system, so that we can find the best solutions. Of course, in order to implement, as a prerequisite, it is essential to continue the recruitment of staff who have started over the last two years. Three thousand five hundred permanent recruits have been launched. We have been talking about permanent recruitment in the GLP and we have already hired staff in primary health care, where they can start - and they have started - structures to go into 24-hour service, which will help decongested the on-call of the big public hospital. Therefore, in this complex problem, which also has the legal dimension, namely the transposition of the directive into national law and the practical dimension, I think that the crucial thing will be the next day of ministerial decisions, so that we can draw up the safest and most human on-call programmes that meet local conditions. I understand the concerns, every time we go to change a framework of work and on-calls, but in no case can this justify riskyness and catastrophe, and even at a time when the health system is not only shrinking, but an agonizing and continuous effort is being made to strengthen and stabilise. Of course, the human resources of the system need to ensure that its wage situation - which is already very compressed - is not reversed by its daily life that the best possible solution is found so that we can implement it. I'll say something personal. The subject of university doctors and university clinics was discussed. This government has not opened a battle with university clinics. It is well understood, the most specific tasks that my fellow university colleagues have. He has also given a place in medical schools, so that things can go further. He has made joint committees to discuss the coexistence of university and doctors in the ERC so that there can be a balance, but also so that these colleagues can fight for the education of younger doctors, which is something very important. So my fellow Members and people working in the health system, I think they are now fully aware of what is happening. I think it is mistaken to try and talk about dangers, disasters and sometimes say that our intelligence is insulted, and it is a pity to go in that direction. For me, the draft law can be used as an initial safety net for both doctors and patients and with the operational support of the ESS and reform in primary health care I think it can contribute to improving the services provided and the objective of universal, equal and effective coverage of the health needs of citizens. On the second issue, the issue of crisis councils has been said too many things. I would like to mention here as an example that the criticism we are being made, in fact, had also been made in the previous health care bill. There, if you remember, we were told we were building party armies. These crises have come to an end, and they are obviously responding negatively, to all those who think that we have any intention or intention, and that is very clear, in the way the councils are formed, but, above all, with the fact that the Minister said that moleculosis would enter into public consultation and that there would be a great debate in this direction, and most of them also raised the issue of structured interview. I close by saying this: we consider that we are at a decisive turning point both for the economic progress of the country and for the progress of governance. There's still a lot of big fronts open. We've been on a difficult path. The last measures are left. We must respond more hardened today, more suspicious, more experienced and probably more tired of the demands of the context and with the greatest possible adequacy and the best possible efficiency to fight and I would say that this concerns each of us, whatever position it may be, in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u429	Thank you very much, Mrs. Jufi.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u430	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u431	The President has the floor for a minute to speak on two amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u432	Thank you, Mr President. We accept the amendment by general number 1334 and a special number 101 by the Ministry of Labour on the subject of the EDPS. We are also accepting a parliamentary amendment only, with a general number of 1339 and a special 104, concerning the payment of unpaid newspapers in 2015 at Serres Hospital, which had not inadvertently been included in previous regulations that we had made for the other hospitals in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u433	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Karathanasopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of the JRC, has the floor. You normally have six minutes. I'll give you eight, Mr. Colleague, and you manage the time respectively.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u434	Thank you, Mr President. The debate on the subject of topical and urgent subjects of topical and urgent debate is very important, but both of you - and the government and the Democrat Opposition - are the topical ones. Opportunity, for example, in the health field is the situation that people are experiencing when they are forced to go to the hospital. It's the situation experienced by medical staff and nursing staff. This is the reality, which is the task of both governments and the former and the current government. Faced with this reality, because you agree on the substance of the bill we are discussing - the first six articles, which are its core, the New Democracy and you - do not want to say a word, which is why you are trying to find hugely supposed differences, to cover the substance of the strategic choices that you make and which the people pay very expensively, the working class. This is because they are the choices that serve the needs of the great capital, its competitiveness and its profitability, they serve the strategic choices of the bourgeoisie in European Union policy. What we are discussing today in the bill is, it says, the adjustment of working time. So if the title alone does not imply, Minister, that we are going to a more flexible form of organization of the working time of medical staff, then what else can it mean? Otherwise the wording would be very simple. Seven o'clock, would you like? The doctors ask for an ex-hour. There will be seven hours a week on a weekly basis. It's over. That means steady working time. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] But you don't do that. What do you think? It will be forty-eight hours a week, but it will be defined as an average, not even of the month, but of the four months. So it immediately opens the ground, erroneous fixed work, constant daily working time. It opens the ground. What else does he do? Otherwise the wording would be very explicit. On a weekly basis, working time is measured and not as an average in the quarter, in the semester, in the time will be later. We therefore have flexibility with regard to doctors' working hours in the public health system, and you also have an exemption clause. " Voluntary" you say, can be done up to sixty hours a week. Let us, much more, that, in essence, this directive is what it is? It is precisely the overthrow of working time as a whole at European Union level. In fact, you incorporate, in substance, the provisions of the bill and the Serkas report for the active and inactive working time. Why else can the on-call alert, which won't be paid if the doctor doesn't have to go to the hospital? It means inactive working time, so unpaid working time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u435	He'll be paid!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u436	That's the point. Elasticisation means elastication on the substance of working time. In other words, more flexibility and where does that lead? It leads to working relationships - tireless, inhuman working hours, intensified work, and we are now talking about a particularly sensitive area, such as medical staff, which is about human lives. In this respect, what does that serve? It's very simple. It serves to have a much cheaper workforce, to cover the gaps, the huge gaps that exist in medical staff in nursing units through this process of settlement - as you call it - of working time, by making, in essence, the lives of doctors, workers, not having free time, unable to make up for their working power. There was, not by accident, Article 6, which, in its original expression, abolished Article 1 of Law 337/1954, which said that the hospital's on-call and smooth operation programmes do not apply flexible working hours and flexible working relationships, and that you abolished it. Of course, after our reaction, you had to get it back, because that's exactly where the substance was. And that doesn't change. It doesn't look good on the situation. It's just gonna come in the next space by spreading. Like assisting doctors, for example, what is it? It is a abolition of stable employment, of permanent and exclusive employment. So that's where we'll get to the doctors. It is the last thing left, as the nursing staff have flexible working relationships, the other technical staff in hospitals have flexible working relationships, and we are not talking about administrative and other staff, which is necessary for the operation of a hospital. So from this point of view, what you are doing is to proceed with even greater flexibility and flexibility in working hours. On the contrary, what the hospitals need today is massive recruitment of doctors and nurses and paramedical staff, with permanent, stable and exclusive employment, with exotic and five days, as the hospital doctors demand, and with an increase in their earnings, in order to change the situation in hospitals and improve their position. The second issue we would like to raise in this brief speech - and it has been mentioned in detail on the issues of the draft law and the rapporteur for the JRC, but also the Secretary-General himself, Dimitris Koutsoubas - is the following. It concerns the amendment of the EDPS, a fund which has been brought into bankruptcy. This fund has been led to bankruptcy because of political choices and previous governments and the current government. The ad 20% of today's government has abolished it. Today you are coming for an institution, an insurance fund that you have led to bankruptcy, to say that you will deal with its problems. How? Will you return the stolen items to him from the PSI and a number of other issues? No return of the stolen ones. Secondly, will you oblige employers, today and yesterday, to pay the contributions which they have retained from the workers and have not paid the huge debts they have to the Fund? No obligation. 'Spain' on these issues in substance! And what do you come and do? You're increasing the employee's contributions, from 3% to 7.05%. Cut the single of the newly insured ones, of those who will be insured after the vote on the amendment. The one you'll always put it reduced, based on the new guy you put in there. The pensioners of the NESC will be invited to pay 5% contribution, which they have not yet paid. The unemployed are not mentioned anywhere, as far as the fund is concerned. Of course, the main thing is that you're changing philosophy to the fund. What's the philosophy? You turn the EDPS into an individual portion - that is to say Article 3(b), which means that solidarity is abandoned and any benefits will be paid on the basis of individual contributions. So where was a social security policy with guaranteed benefits now, where are you going? In one insurance - because it is not social security - social security is abolished and solidarity - where any benefits depend on the viability of the fund and the individual contributions of each individual. Thus, compression, reduction of the fund's services, reduction of pensions, reduction of benefits for insured persons. In this respect, therefore, not only does the situation ensure and is not compromising, but the annual audit you have put into revenue - the costs of the EDPS, to be sustainable, to introduce new reductions, new reductions in benefits, and all of which you say will operate on the basis of the capitalisation system, as if we have not met the other insurance funds and the capitalisation systems that led them to bankruptcy. In this respect, therefore, we say quite clearly: 'The amendment you bring is deeply anti-Semitism. It is cut and sewn into the measures of both the government and the employer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u437	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u438	I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. It is no accident for the bazaars that the government has done with employers in the press, the printed and the electronics sector to have this amendment, with which you do nothing else, rather than promise new privileges and aid to employers. It is anti-liberal and anti-grassy, because the employee's contributions are increased, more than doubled, the way to drastic reductions in benefits opens the way to the application of recompense, you are charging contributions to pensioners. What do we propose as a JRC? The insurance is directly linked to labour relations, directly linked to collective agreements and wages. Of EUR 300, what contributions and the viability of a fund will there be? So the amendment can be voted on, but the workers will find themselves in an increasingly grim reality, as they will constantly lose insurance rights to medical care and assistance. Our objective is to say that for all workers, both the media and pensioners there is a constant fight for uniform, compulsory insurance, public and free of charge, a universal insurance system which ensures pension and other benefits for all corresponding needs. This means completely free of charge for all health care services to all, to pay the state and the employer, their contributions to meet at least the current benefits, to sign a collective contract of employment with increases in wages, in line with the needs of the workers, not to increase the contributions of workers, instead of constantly falling as far as they are concerned, not to put out of the EDEAP the unemployed, to return all the ‘cut’ from the ‘cut’ and all the employers owed to the EDEA and not to have employers in the d.d. In this respect, Mr President - and I conclude with this - the JRC is voting 'at present' because we are opposed to the present regime and we are opposed to what you are going to create. And the 'present' means yes to the proposal put forward by the JRC, which can, in fact, respond to the needs of the workers in terms of shielding their insurance and pension rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u439	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-four students and students and two educational attendants from Kalamata Beach High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Lazarides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u440	Thank you, Mr President. The opposition once again in its well-known tactics, opposition to the opposition, with no mood for fertile criticism and dialogue. Of course, it is now under a panic situation, because you see various things revealed. In particular, they are now revealing which persons are in large offshore companies with the aim of avoiding tax obligations by entrepreneurs and - o of the miracle - within all the lists they are figuring out preconceived faces of the Opposition and, above all, the Officer of the Opposition. So he says, "Now what do we do? To start diversion fires, to catch the issue of Koufantina, so to disorientate public opinion." I and my party, as our President said, disagree politically. Sure. But the legal framework...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u441	You're in favor of Kufontina!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u442	I didn't interrupt anyone. Mr Colleague, confirm what I said earlier about panic. You have the opportunity, if you feel that I insult you, to ask for the floor then and to answer it. That looks panic. It confirms what I said earlier. Thank you for the confirmation. As far as Koufantina's permission is concerned, the government does not decide who will get permission. You know very well that the judiciary board decides. So what do you want? Should the government intervene? On the one hand, we are talking about the independence of justice and on the other hand, are you asking that the government intervene? It seems that this is what you have done, in other words, when you were talking about independence of justice, that is what you said. This government does not interfere with justice, it respects the independence of justice, and it is the one that decided that Koufantina is entitled to permission. In fact - I now also have an additional element that came to me a moment ago - there was a unanimous decision on the relevant council of Korydallos prisons and with the agreement of the prosecutor in this case. So you're against these people. I mean, what was he supposed to do? Should the government intervene? Is that possible? What are you talking about? I have another statement now. Koufantinas is entitled to permission, says the Federation of Greek Penitentiary Officers. In fact, the federation says, "Dimitris Koufantinas has obtained a license which he is entitled to." This mentions in its communication the Federation of Penitentiary Officials of Greece, noting, note here, ladies and gentlemen, that it would have taken it sooner if Christoulos Xiros had not violated his license. This is the legal framework that you had shaped and taken the Dry license too and now takes leave of Koufantinas. I'm on it now. I have time to talk about the bill, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the implementation of the Community directive 88/2003, on the basis of the 12-hour active on-call, 12-hour daily rest, at least 24 hours of rest weekly without interruption, or on-call and on-call and other forms of on-call, the readiness of hospitals and primary health care units to ensure progressively human conditions for doctors, the organisation of their training programmes and the fulfilment of their functional needs. You are criticising that it has become late, but it has been a long pending situation that our country has not been dealing with for many years, that is to say, the harmonisation of our legislative framework in a regime that protects work and sets a maximum weekly limit, especially for doctors, because they also recognise the European institutions and the European Court of Justice that they are a professional group, which is working in their work. It is therefore considered necessary to urgently legislate. This draft law aims at legislative harmonisation arrangements and, in particular, government interventions in implementing the conditions for the implementation of the Directive in the programme of on-the-spot inspections of all hospitals in the country and primary health care units. They relate to the staffing of hospitals, which will ensure the possibility of forty-eight hours of work per week for ESS doctors, as well as university doctors, rural doctors, qualified doctors and dentists, who, with any connection, offer services to the ESS hospitals and public primary health care units, the doctors of the ESSAB, the "Papagorgiou", the "Onauseum". On the basis of the directive, the Ministry of Health, the health regions, hospital administrations and doctors must work together to organise their newspaper programmes in the best possible way and, by our special speaker, the grounds for supporting the bill and its provisions have been mentioned. In opposition, we should say that it would be useful to support its very important role, by controlling the legislative process and proposals that are essential. Of course, the best proposals are made by someone, when they have been through the self-criticism process, how much more so when the results of corruption in the industry are known and their result is theirs. The evacuation of hospital spending over the last decade, ladies and gentlemen, should concern you, as is the case with our years of troubled fellow citizens. The well-known prerogative of medicines and materials, which had reached 600% of the prices of the corresponding species in European countries, should be your concern. It is of course also the subject of a committee of inquiry, but we will not allow the continuation of a regular, general rule, to provide cover for the relevant health leaders and to avoid being posted. It may not be of the present and related to the draft law, but your policies have caused a great deal of malfunctions, which the current government is called upon to provide. I would suggest fertile and creative criticism and more self-criticism than you. If you really want to deal with the investigation of suspicious transactions of persons, which resulted in the illegal enrichment of certain groups and a clear damage to health-income assets, the dominant case of Henry Dunan and others. If we had to respond, then, because this legislation is coming today, we think it is because the conditions allow it now. The overall working and on-call time of the doctors of the National Health System can be considered today, ladies and gentlemen, who do not present a risk of a hospital being closed down due to a lack of material or human resources. The Independent Greeks support the Ministry of Health's legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u443	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u444	Ladies and gentlemen, we are closing this debate, which was indeed a shortcut of time, but I think we have had the margin for these three days, to make a detailed reference to the essential and critical issues raised by the bill. A criticism of surprise has been made. There's no surprise. This loose end was known. There was a conviction. We've been negotiating with the Commission. Negotiations ended in April. We prepared the regulation in May in law. In June we gave it to the Hospital Doctors Federation, we consulted her twice. There was no scope for understanding, because the federation's assessment is that what we are legislating at the present time is in reactionary direction and serves capital. There was a difficulty in the first month of autumn to proceed as we had agreed, and now we were at risk, because there are other bills and there is a burden of a parliamentarian, there was a great delay, and there really was a very bad fine imposed by the European Court of Justice. So we could not risk this possibility, and we decided to make this hasty debate in some way, without preventing all key stakeholders from saying their opinion. The Committee on Social Affairs has all been asked to speak. For different reasons, a two body could not be represented, but, essentially, hospitals and freelance doctors and the domestic and external industry were represented and expressed their opinion. Now as far as the substance is concerned. We have made it clear in the Committees' debate that it is obviously a regulation which, in order to be fully and universally implemented, requires certain critical conditions. One of these is to complete the recruitment package, which we have already launched in the health system. Previous speakers have also referred to this plan. There is an ongoing "injection" of human potential, medical potential, specialist doctors of the ESS, permanent doctors of the ESS, which totals about three and a half thousand doctors. Because this is a long process of time, we have therefore decided that we should go with a more flexible and rapid selection system in the next few years. That is why we have made this proposal, considering that we are also ensuring transparency and dignity. And we are not making any discounts on this. One condition, then, is recruitment. The second condition is the organisation of TENs. In it we have taken very specific steps and you know it. This is the first time that a massive proclamation of permanent posts, targeted at the emergency departments of the whole country, is being held, about five hundred seats. This is a significant upgrade of the most critical section, in the sense of first contact, of the first line of defence of the health system. There's gonna be an emergency medical specialty. We've been through this. In total, people who are involved in emergency medicine understand that it is a critical intervention, which complements the upgrading and staffing that has been carried out in the ICMs and the effort to strengthen pre-medical care, by upgrading the EMCDDA, and by improving its response either to ground or to air in the emergency process. Third crucial condition is the primary care, where there was a landscape disorganized, consciously, since 2014. We slowly start and invest in this field. It was the big system deficit, we all know. We build new structures, we support existing ones, we centralise their workshops, we increase their capacity to meet more citizens' needs. Fourthly, it is crucial to limit the leakage of new doctors and particularly qualified doctors from abroad by upgrading their education and improving their working conditions. This is done to a great extent with this bill, because the ones that will benefit, above all, are the doctors, who, in fact, offer continuous, long-term, exhaustive and exhaustive work today in the health system. Of course, there is an issue of the reorganization of the newspaper model in Lefkapedi, mainly, and in Thessaloniki, in order for there to be a more balanced distribution of the workload in the newspapers. So there is a crucial question. Does anyone defend today's reality in the system? It seems that some are defending it and some say that today we have a regularity, which is coming to disrupt this bill. Well, this normality some claim is the definition of labour barbarity. The obligation to keep a 24-hour continuous, 24-hour working in the hospital, often and forty-eight hours, as has already been said, in the province and with the continuity of the obligation to be in the morning hours of the next day, is the definition of the working jungle. This, ladies and gentlemen, is abrogated. He's getting a limit. So there are two crucial aspects: firstly, we are putting a ceiling on working time. Forty-eight hours the directive says. Just to allow the strengthening of the system to function with doctors, we give the possibility for three years, with the consent of doctors, to move this limit to sixty hours. So far, there has been no limit. There was the sectoral agreement of 2009, but there was no limit. There was over-exploitation and this mainly concerned qualified doctors, especially in university hospitals, especially in large hospitals, where there was often abuse and enforcement on the part of managers, teachers, etc. Of course, it also concerned lower levels of the system. One, therefore, is the ceiling and the second, a critical condition of the directive, is that after 13 hours of continuous work, it is imperative that eleven hours should be rested. That is what the European directive says. We say that after 12 hours of work a 12-hour rest is required. Is this a negative development for the daily life of doctors, for their work relationships, for the functioning of the marriage system? I think this criticism is totally unfounded. We are therefore putting two critical limitations, which really allow there to be an elementary humanisation of working hours, which is very responsible, very stressful, very pressing, and people who have worked in public hospitals know very well. I therefore believe that the abolition of working hours, working hours and working hours, does not have a basis. This criticism on the part of the JRC is completely unfounded. The JRC may have every right to criticise measures coming from the European Union, etc.. In this bill he's not right at all. We very much respect the criticism made by the left from the point of view of the social struggles. We may disagree with this criticism but, in fact, we believe that it has no basis on which to do so. So there is neither a abolition of the morning working hours nor individual working contracts. This has also been said, because we are giving the opportunity to have the opt out, which is something legislated in all the countries of Europe. It is a key element of the European directive. There's no clearing of doctors. It is clear that the scope for neutralization and therefore better provision of services to the world is reduced. There is neither a symptom of industrial relations nor a dissolution of the clinical and the deorganisation of the ESS nor income impoverishment of doctors. We said that the newspaper budget has been strengthened over the past two years and will be strengthened this year. It has already been strengthened during 2017 to cover the increase from the second half. There will be a corresponding forecast for the 2018 budget. So there is no financial impoverishment, and of course it is neither an anti-olive and an anti-virtual abortion. I think, therefore, that the crucial question for us is whether there is indeed a desire to humanise the working hours and implement the European directive. On the side of the JRC, we understood there was a refusal. We see a contradiction on the part of the federation. While it says that this is an anti-linguistic, anti-liberal, evaporative intervention and various other cosmic surnames, at the same time we have presented to the federation's committees, which calls for the European directive to be implemented, and threatens to intervene in the Commission, in order to impose a fine on us. This structural contradiction cannot be understood and we have not been explained these three days by the Members who have spoken on this side. From the point of view of counter-population, too, I cannot understand a logic which says that we are with Europe, that European regulations are good in general, but because this regulation is brought by the bad government, we are not voting on it. I think that it is wrong for the seriousness of the matter and any possible real criticism can be found. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, allow me a little. We, therefore, have given examples of writing. Firstly, we have made it clear that nothing changes in the categorisation of newspapers. Newspapers are active, mixed and ready. They continue to be rewarded in the same way. For what we are saying, what we are saying is that it is not possible for the time of on-call preparedness, which is not called upon by the doctor to provide service to the hospital, to be included in the weekend and therefore to take compensatory time and off. That is what we consider to be unreasonable. Also, in the practical decision that we will make, in other words, the on-the-spot check for each hospital, there will be provision so that a doctor can also be able to work with on-the-spot checks. So we do not want to go to a logic that expands this possibility and urges the doctor to be bound even outside the hospital for service. We have also given examples of writing to the working reality of the health system and we have proceeded with all these interventions to support and strengthen the system. This is the noticeable difference of this intervention. This intervention is part of a political plan to support and upgrade the ESS rather than to shrink, disorganise and abandon as were the previous periods. Then, of course, there were mobilisations and then we claimed that hospitals should not be closed, hospitals should not be merged, organic beds abolished, and that they should not be abolished clinically. That was the issue at issue at the time of Mr. Loverdos' office, and that is why there were massive mobilisations at the time of the hospital doctors. Here I say that we do not welcome the low mobilisations and low participation in protest rallys at this time. He's crisising the trade union movement, and we don't rejoice about it, it's not a good thing. There is a crisis in social and political representation in the country, and that is not healthy, and we need to have a serious debate. But it is also indicative. There are low expectations, there is real difficulty. We do not doubt that things are obviously not pomegranate, but what we are questioning is the iso-destructive and destructive criticism that things are constantly going from evil to worse. That's not true. The citizens who have the greatest right to access the health system today are aware of it in a universal manner and the limits of this intervention are slowly shutting them down, with the arrangements of the debts that had been established in the ILO or had moved the hospitals - look at them - judicially. That's what we're going to do. Debt cancellation has taken place. What we are abolishing is, in cases where the judicial procedure has not proceeded, to stop the hospital from demanding citizens, who obviously did not have the money, legally take them back. It's Article 15. So there is a legitimate concern, there is a balance of terror, let me say, that has been found in these years and some may reasonably wonder, what the new landscape will be like. So what we want to make clear is that we do not go to violent and authoritarian intervention. We are going to go to a regulation, to a harmonisation which has the element of the regularity and stability of the system, and we will do so with respect for the needs of the doctors and the need to operate the departments and clinics, but above all with respect and with absolute priority to the needs, dignity and rights of patients. Their security must surely be guaranteed by the state with its interventions. I will try to close by saying this: I think it is clear that from the standpoint of Antipoliticism there is no alternative political plan for the health sector. All Mr Mitsotakis said a few days ago is very emphatic, and they want to strengthen competition between the public and the private sector, namely, to give priority to and give vital space to the private sector, that is, practically. It is precisely us who move to the opposite logic. We have made it clear that we support the public system as a priority, we increase its capacity, capacity, and we are looking for clean and complementary cooperation with the private sector. The second thing I said, is that primary care will go to the responsibility of local government. You are all aware, with the serious problems that local government currently has, what it means to shift the responsibility of operating such a critical sector, which must be invested in human resources and resources, in local government. The OTAs cannot make a health policy at this stage, it is quite clear. What is needed is co-operation and it is fortunately there. We will also aim at a networking at primary level between the structures of the health system, structures of primary mental health, treatment of dependency and social structures of self-government. There's something very interesting that Mr. Mitsotakis also said. 'We do not need' - it says - 'not necessarily more doctors'. That's exactly how he said it. He says we need more nurses. But be careful, "We do not necessarily need more doctors." So how, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, will you humanize doctors' hours? How are you gonna do all this? The magical solution, the cartoon shot, has been given by Mr Stournaras: a large PPP, that's what health wants. Let us therefore give the private sector space to buy services from the private sector, which we know very well that it has within it the gene of provoking demand, waste and often corruption. Not that the health system does not have it, to be absolutely clear, but there over time things were absolutely inconsistent and uncontrollable. So we really think that health is a huge issue, which is related to the dignity of people, that has to do with social cohesion, it has to do with prosperity, it has to do with what we call 'fair and sustainable development'. That is why, at the development conferences this time, in consultation with the regions, we have incorporated a topic relating to the health sector. We believe that real investment in health, the transfer of human and material resources to this area, is obviously not a field of rhysphetological, customer-opportunity, as you have done all the previous years, and that is why you have the fly and you are smelling when you hear about recruitment. Because, in the past, recruitments were made with such interventions and it is very characteristic that, in the regulation we are doing, the selection boards are completely uncontrolled, with the elite of the health system, the coordinators - managers and managers of all departments and all clinics, who obviously after having declared their availability, through a drawdown process will be chosen to make an assessment of the modulated criteria and qualifications of the candidate doctors. You almost told us, you let it be understood, fishing in cloudy waters that we're going to hire the doctors of the HSH with a draw! That's what you let it mean these days! 'As it says - 'you also put the flags in elementary school to hold the flag'. It is shameful to say these things, it is an insult to the intelligence of fellow Members, of the people of the health system! But you know - I'm sure of that - you don't care about them, you're not addressing them. These people have understood the effort, the overgiving we have done all this time, they have realised that, really, there is an ingenuity, there is care that there is no unpaid work. There are two and a half years of work on the health system. Why, ladies and gentlemen? Because they're our friends at the hospital? Of course not. As we have taken care of since the first day we have taken over, there has been a regularity in payments and these little money we can give on time and where there are problems we are trying, working personally, intervening in order to resolve them. So that's the difference. I would like to conclude here - and I would like to say this - that we are not doing this, ladies and gentlemen, particularly concerning New Democracy - to ask for good hospitals, more doctors, good health benefits from the EEAS, an upgraded social state and, at the same time, to demand low social security contributions, low taxation, and possibly also cover tax evasion cases, see Paradise Papers, because your people are involved in them. You're making fun of the world, very simple. We can't have everything in this country. If we really want a reliable public health system and a serious social state, we must, of course, seek the maximum possible tax revenue, but which, of course, must have social recompense. Let me say that in the health sector this has been done. The money, collected by citizens, whether as health insurance or as tax revenues, is invested in a transparent way, unprecedented for the chronicles of the management of the health system, and indeed, we are extremely disturbed by the criticism even from the Secretary-General of the JRC that we are going to do the dirty work. We, ladies and gentlemen, are making up the health system and we have not come here like thieves, but we have come as organic elements of the system, knowing its people, knowing its needs, knowing the agony, to forge a climate of cooperation, confidence and credibility! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] So that's what we're doing. Evidently, things are hard. Obviously, we need to overcome austerity in the run-up to the completion of the Memorandum, so that we have the financial area to have a serious health system. Obviously, we need incentives for decent and honest work, which we need to find and decide. We are committed to this effort, and we believe we will succeed. Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u445	Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u446	Mr President, we have obviously entered the secondary procedure. In our position, and me as well as our Secretary General and Nikos Karathanasopoulos as well as the partner of Christos Katsotis and in the committees, we have highlighted the anti-grassy, anti-grassy character of this directive. You're in the first place, and it's not just here in Greece. Can I tell you something, Minister? We have never supported the working jungle and we have fought it for years - and you know it very well - even through the trade unions, through the trade union activity and the movement of hospital doctors and you know our demands and positions. Don't falsify these, and don't throw into the air any words, so that the hell goes on to everybody. We have been clear for many years about the ESS, what we want, what a national system, what a public health system - we say - we - state health system, which meets all needs, to be fully manned, staffed, with infrastructure, which has never been done, as it should be and should be enjoyed by our people on the basis of the wealth they produce and the related health services. I would remind you what we have said, that this directive or otherwise the transposition of this directive opens the way for all workers, whether you like it or not. The examples are also from the European Union, in a number of countries and not just - and I stress this - hospital doctors or, if you like, hospitals, whether they concern the public sector or the private sector. Of course, you do the dirty work as a government. What the New Democracy could not do with PASOK, you and the first Memorandum and the second Memorandum, after you voted together. And now you are preparing, in view of the third assessment, a new attack on labour rights, trade union laws, strike and go by saying. All that you were saying, that you would announce by law all the memorials, that you would take back all the anti-popular and anti-popular measures adopted by the New Democracy and PASOK either separately or together, did you take them back? You have received them, inherited them and continued them, and you break the people even more. And with the memorials and the agreements you've made, you've tied the people up by 2060. And do you have the courage to abandon the JRC, which tells you you're doing the dirty job?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u447	Mr. Lambroulis, please focus on the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u448	Of course, you do the dirty work in favour of the system and against the people! And don't you tell us now that as a government you're conducting a pluralist policy! We say clearly, and that is what we are putting in the world and in the movement that it is a matter of this movement, and to claim it and conquer it, I mean, as far as hospital doctors are concerned: Exotic work, 50 hours a week, thirty hours a week with a newspaper. Clear things! And we don't say it now, we've been saying it for years. So when you are addressing us to address the basis of these demands and the positions we are expressing through the trade union movement and not just, but also as a party. Why, in the light of the development that exists today, the possibilities offered by science, technology, the experienced worker and scientific, of course, mainly personal in terms of the area of health, should our people be deprived of all these achievements or possibilities? [[At this point, the closing bell of the speech time of the F Vice-President of the Parliament is ringing.]] Why is this system, especially at the time of the crisis, constantly wanting the people to bleed, the state constantly cutting costs, taxing the world, in order to buy billions, with coarse money, through development laws, by means of tax exemptions and tax exemptions, who? Big businessmen! That's what's going on. They are the ones you serve. Of course it will be the crumbs for the people. You break him into taxation, you make him pay contributions. Let's not go any further. Of course, what he pays for his health is what we say? What does the state and the governments, the former and the present, through the insurance funds, offer to him, how many cuts have been made and how many benefits have been shed through the insurance funds? Oak number! Doesn't the people put their hand in the pocket deep for health services? Don't you think he's standing in line at the hospitals? Why is it unrealistic today, for example, to be manned on the basis of our own proposal for working hours, hospitals with staff? And not enough on the basis of the cut-out organizations nor the old ones, but on the basis of the needs of each hospital, of each area in specialized, qualified, etc. Staff. The doctors wouldn't reach us, no, we wouldn't have Brain Drain. We would not have been reached by the doctors who are produced here in our country to offer services to be part of a national - state - we say - a public health system. But this in this system can never exist. That's what we're talking And in this direction, beyond the struggle, beyond the claim of the workers and the people, and for health services to his benefit, we say that this struggle should be combined with more radical socio-political changes in the system itself, so that in the matter of health it can enjoy what science and progress can offer to him today. Of course you won't. We have no objections to that. You are all on the one hand and this is reflected in the bill today. The directive of the European Union today will all be voted on, either openly or in disguised form.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u449	Oh, no, no,
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u450	Of course, Mr. Mada! Let go of them'stuffs'. I didn't interrupt anyone. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u451	Mr. Lambroulis, put a perfect one. Please, Mr. Mada!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u452	I shall finish, Mr President. I shall say two words about the amendments. With regard to the last amendment that the Minister has said, with number 1339, on the payment of the 2015 newspapers, we will be in favour. Alas, we're not talking about this! Why are you swinging your head? Shouldn't they be paid?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u453	Keep going, Mr. Lambroulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u454	However, we are asking for payment, as provided for in the amendment and in any case for payment to be made by means of an increase in the state budget. And here is an issue, for example, if there is an excess of 2017 funds for the payment of newspapers to that hospital. With regard to Amendment No 1337, which concerns dentists and physico-therapists, we shall vote against it. It is indeed the application of the OECD directives on the development of competitiveness, both for dental practitioners and for physicotherapists. Of course, we say that these regulations do nothing but institutionalize the rule of the very economy you, the capitalist economy and development where the big fish eats the little one. Of course, the small - I say this - self-employed dentists and physiotherapists are not going to benefit from this development, and much more the patients themselves who - I am passing away - pay their heads if they have to make their teeth, because they are not covered by the insurance funds. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u455	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u456	Mr President, I too claim the right to close, because Mr Lambroulis after the Minister's speech he wanted the JRC to have the last word. He won't have him.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u457	I didn't ask for the last reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u458	Mr. Papadopoulos, he wasn't in the Chamber, so I gave him the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u459	I condemn the right to secondary education, as he did, because certain things need to be clarified after his speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u460	Wait a minute, Mr. Comrade. It is known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the room "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way the House organizes and operates, forty-two students and students and three teachers from Kalamata Beach High School. This is the second division. The first came before. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Aivatidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u461	Thank you, Mr President. Golden Dawn will vote relentlessly, as I said, in principle, for this draft law, but also for the overwhelming majority of the articles contained in it for a basic reason of principle: in addition to having a Memorandum of Understanding, national sovereignty is assigned, and this is about the legal system, because the assignment of national sovereignty is not just about the borders. It also concerns the legal system of the country. So this directive, number 88 of the year 2003, goes exactly in this context. National sovereignty is assigned. To conclude, on the basis of what I have heard, Mr President, and on the basis of the positions of the bodies not only of the meetings on this bill, but also of other meetings on other bills, I have understood that although doctors and both ministers of health decide on the interpretation of doctors. That's a censorship. Mr President, I am in the unpleasant position - because Mr Kontonis is not here - to refer to his tragic appearance. With cynicism and propaganda and no sympathy she treated Mrs. Bakoyannis in a critical way. I am not her defender, but I think that at that time we were all shocked by that crime. Of course the Golden Dawn also has victims of political terrorism. We are not amazed, of course, as Golden Dawn from Mr. Kontonis' appearance and attitude. Mr. Condonis unreservedly stated, perhaps even enthusiastically, as he himself thinks, that he is a fierce, if not a praiser of Lenin. In fact, he described Stalin as a right-wing difference. First of all, but it was said. I have repeatedly stressed that unfortunately various tricks are introduced into the legal system, in the law of the country, ideologies of anarchism. This is also about the issue of gender identity, but also the issue of general releases. Why am I saying that? Because there is an ideological part of anarchism that says that all prisoners are political prisoners. I am not shocked, of course, by the attitude of Mr Condonne, of Lenin, because Lenin at the time of red terrorism had released heavy criminals that the secret police of the Bolsheviks, the CSEKA, had used against the ideological opponents - the tsarics, that is, - and even carried out extremes. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to point out that the New Democracy bears a very heavy historical responsibility for two things: firstly, for the construction which has been set against the Golden Dawn and secondly, for at the moment there are people in the government who are literally neo-bolsheviks and the New Democracy's policy on their part has led them to power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u462	Mr. Papadopoulos, you have the floor and we're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u463	I think we have all agreed on changing a tragic reality that still exists in the National Health System. Vision is a qualitative, effective, free public health system. The steps are those which we are discussing on the basis of an adjustment bill at the upper limit of weekly work of hospital doctors and other doctors contributing to the "private" model of hospitals and health centres that will enable humanisation of today's reality. We've made it clear that there are two ways. One is the proposal of the Communist Party of Greece, which is adopted by the majority of the Hospital Doctors Federation, and the second is the one we are doing: One on-call in the week and all the others, to which the draft law gives absolute answers - breakfast, seven-hour, continuous, tactical - with no chance of cycling, with no chance of elasticity. Think a little bit. We want to make too many recruitments during the adjustment period so that we can reach the quality programme we want, which meets urgent needs, needs of clinical departments and so on. That's what we agree. In what way? With the suggestion for one on-call a week? Think a little bit. Trikala Hospital. To keep you from going away, I'll take you to mine. The ureology, the ophthalmology and the ORL clinic to make an on-call week want eight doctors. The dermatology department must have eight doctors. We've got to have eight gastrointestinalists to on-call. Think about all the other parts we need to organize. The anesthetic part that has to have two inmates to obey that model you say must have at least fifteen anestheticists.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u464	We're not talking about the JRC model. For your model we're talking about today. You've confused it. We will not know what to vote on at the end, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u465	What am I supposed to do? You've covered all the time of the memorial service, Mr. Lambroulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u466	You're applying them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u467	Those who understand that we have a design that makes use of the autonomic emergency departments, the reinforcement of subordinated intensive care units, the possibility of having twenty-four-fourth on-the-spot on a number of health centres by a decision that the Minister will take and the possibility of using the three and a half thousand positions of doctors who have been able to implement them - have started, gone on, the next call will be made within days for the emergency departments and it will follow for health centres, for the subordinated departments continues - to enable a clear improvement. What else is left? We have also heard a proposal from the Centroon Association. Use - says - the 150 million, ladies and gentlemen Ministers, which we save if we do not pay them to take six thousand national health doctors' seats. I wish that was, but it can't be. We are forced, on the basis of reality, to move in every way towards the standard of quality of invention which - and I would like to close - we have been talking about it in the Federation of Hospital Doctors throughout the period since 1993. Think about it, twenty-three years, we've been talking about a model of invention. What is being submitted today in the draft law is the possibility of this model, which we were thinking per hospital, per health centre, per health centre, per section, per unit, to be able to adapt to a substantial change. You think we'll go on with 24 days. We say 12 hours and rest. What is it better for the doctors who listen to us? Let's continue with twenty-four days. I therefore think that we are leading to the basis of our vision in a debate with doctors in each area on how we can achieve all this kind of recruitment, which we have and most of our claim, so that we can put them into a qualitative programme which will implement both the adaptation and the implementation of the health system, as we dream. It will be, Mr Lambroulis, and it will be comprehensive and quality and free of charge, because we want health, to implement the right to health in the best possible way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u468	Mr President, could I and Mr Paulakis have the floor for two brief seconds?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u469	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u470	Thank you, Mr President. We've heard a lot of things all day and we've been keeping up. I will not go into much detail. There are two things I want to answer which have been heard and which need to be answered. The first concerns Mr Mitsotakis. I will read something about what he said, because I understand the grief and suffering of people, but I cannot accept with anything a logic that says that we must take care of people's thoughts. It is very heavy what he said, namely that we need to take into account what repressive measures we will take as to how people think. Do you understand where this thing leads? That's what he said before.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u471	He didn't talk about an accidental man, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u472	I'm not going to talk about an accidental man either, Mr. President. Listen to me. Don't interrupt me. I did not interrupt anyone even when I was too serious. Listen to me. I shall read something, which says: 'In the end - the continuous exception from the provisions applicable to all Greeks could perhaps be considered as an anti-constitutional one. That is, the most heinous killer, who caused the common sense, must come out, and the man who committed this crime must be constantly excluded, that is, he, and some other things, “undoubtedly, but who paid for all these years the crime he committed and has not been repented of.” Do you know whose words these are? It's Constantine Mitsotakis and it was about the release of the junta criminals, Pattaco. So think what you said today and what the father of Mr.Mitsotakis said. And I close it here. Secondly, Mr Georgiadis said some things before. Well, he said a lot. It's this show and the theatrical. As bad as the situation is, so much do we put it in theatreism, because this intervention by Mr Mitsotakis, too, but also a series of other things that he said these days are only in the news? Is that all we see and are trying to throw black dust and scourge into the real political topicality of these days? Is that because these Paradise Papers are coming out, where Mr Mitsotakis' wife is inside, and once and for all is missing the account, is there no need to explain it? Ms. Bakoyannis's guard was in agreement with an underworld, and they are evidence of court proceedings. Aren't these in the news? Don't they need to be answered by anyone? Your party's secretary, Mr. Aygeakis, himself and his guard in judicial records - surveillance by the NSA, not generally by the para-state - is caught closing jobs and deals with the underworld. Isn't that what you should apologize for? In order not to catch the rest, the oldest ones now that SIEMENS is also coming out with Mrs Tsakalou's statement, etc. That is why you have no reason to apologise and ask us to apologise for why the Watch Tower Court gave permission - not to release - on the basis of the law that you through Mr. Nine were making the last amendment? Are we all right? We all live in the same place? You did not apologise for the "possessed", you did not apologise for the house of Voltaire, you did not apologise for the loans of "Greek", you did not apologise for all of this. Let's go down. I would like to say a word about Mr Georgiadis, who dared and threw this conversation - who? - that the regulation, which we withdrew to give time of consultation with the pharmaceutical industry, says a gift to the foreign pharmaceutical industry. Of the many gifts that we made them came out of “ROCHE” and threatens, as if he was talking to them at the time when he was out and threatens to withdraw a medicine that does so for the following reason, because 25% rebate, i.e. mandatory volume discount, which we put into the drugs that were placed on the positive list, new drugs, since January 2017, first of all, affects these companies. I repeat it one more time. The biggest, the longest crime in pharmaceutical policy, which all governments have done since post-Macedonia, is the following: in Greece the insurance funds, the Ministry of Health did not negotiate institutionally with the pharmaceutical industry for drug prices. This is a timeless crime. This is the 35 to 40 billion out of the 85th of the black money. And I will explain it with a final word so that Mr. Georgiadis doesn't dare, who has dived his hands very deeply in this story, say such words to me and Mr. Xanthos for gifts. When a drug gets a price in Germany or Belgium or Austria or anywhere and gets a list price of 100 euros the insurance funds of these countries do not pay 100 euros, they pay it 20, 30, 35 euros. That's how they pay it, because they're the only ones, the big buyers. This in Greece never happened. When it gets a price of EUR 100 the insurance funds previously and the EEAS today pays or EUR 100 if it has no participation or EUR 75. We were the first to negotiate that threw the values of Hepatitis C drugs from 35,000 and 40,000 at 8,000 to 12,000 and now we're doing it everywhere. And from the outset we have set up a mechanism that Mr Loverdos, too, has never applied, even though he has been legislated by both his successors, of course. That's the reality. That's the sound reality. Because this is how we would have avoided this smuggling of public money in the health sector. And why does Roche and each of the "ROCHE" have been shouting and shaking with 25% plus rebate for new drugs since this year? Because, first of all, they are forced to come to the negotiations quickly and, secondly, they do not have the opportunity to pursue an aggressive promotion policy with the high price paid by the whole of Europe. And you understand, I guess, how this aggressive promotion policy is going through. And it's also an answer to the 20-60-20 that I was saying before and twisted it the way they've twisted it. If a drug is worth it, its market place will find it. It's over! Once it has a therapeutic effect. But if a new medicine has similar effects with an older expensive or cheaper one, but this is much more expensive, then it displaces the other because some people promote it and prescribe it. We were told inside and the representatives of the pharmaceutical industry that we should check the prescription. And who promotes the prescribing of the increased? What about me? Or do doctors have no work to prescribe? Who promotes prescribing? Through what mechanisms are being promoted? Why does it go like that? Through the diffusion of this money from the pharmaceutical industries. That's how it's promoted. Shouldn't we ever talk about this? Will our finger be shaken by those who closed the deals that we get gifts? And this story we ended the other day, we said he'd retire. Because this plus rebate actually costs about 50m euros in foreign pharmaceuticals. And we said, and we need to see it. We know that clawback is unfair. Nice to meet you, we know. But we're still under comitology and memoirs. Next summer, we'll go out and have a dala at noon, and then we'll talk otherwise. But until then there has to be this expenditure ceiling. So we look to share it fairly. But you can't have full justice in an unjust measure. And that is why we will call on them and tell them that in 15 days' time you must agree to share this story in order to legislate. That is what I wanted to say, because the answers were needed. And I think Andreas will complement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u473	The Minister for Health, Mr. Andreas Blondos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u474	Very briefly, I would like to refer to an issue that I did not have the time to talk about in this part of the medicine. The intervention of the Vice-President of the New Democracy, who, while withdrawing an amendment, comes here and argues that you had set it up to give a present to the multinationals, was really challenging. And he obviously tells this to colleagues who cannot know the details. This is a very difficult and sensitive matter of the political drug. So we must give a very clear answer. Paul answered earlier. What's the objective event? That we're overburdening the medical expense. The payment threshold, that is, above which there is a clawback, is indeed very low and we really need to get away from the suffocating budgetary committee and monitoring in a serious and structured way and with scientific evidence of epidemiological and diagnostic evidence to claim a greater ability to cover the medical needs of the world. This is another case. It's not the present. This is to manage as clearly as possible the current expenditure, i.e. about 2.5 billion which is foreign and hospital and as much as possible to overcome this expenditure in a fairer way. A mechanism of fairer distribution of excesses is what we did by increasing the rebate tone, namely by increasing the discount, the discount rate, based on the volume that someone has on the market. The more volume, the more discount. This is something that industry also recognises as a positive measure. The industry is simply complaining - and perhaps rightly so - that the sum of clawback and rebate poses serious problems, because it is about one in three medicines that it is obliged not to compensate because the budget is not enough. I leave aside the period of immunity, the party, at which, obviously, we all know who the participants were and who the organizers were. This is not about this juncture. I think that today what we are focusing on is precisely what Mr Georgiadis accused us of not taking measures. It says that there is no structural measure. And what measures did he take to understand? Until 2016, no structural measures had been taken in the field of pharmaceutical policy, and therefore the institutions have insisted on a policy very hard in terms of price reduction, which was, of course, undead, created distortions, more burdened cheap drugs, generic and lately off-patent and much less on-patent expensive drugs. The only period for which structural measures have been introduced is this. As Mr Paulakis rightly said, we have activated the EPPY Negotiation Committee. We already have a first positive step, unprecedented for the country. Never had that thing ever existed before, the list price was the price of compensation. So that is what we have with a very specific contract that we signed after negotiation with companies that have medicinal products for Hepatitis C. This enabled the country to cover five times the number of chronic Hepatitis C patients. This is a huge contribution to public health in the country. Now it's negotiating for three more medical classes, for melanoma, for multiple sclerosis and for familial hypercholesterolaemia and hyperlipidaemia that now exist new expensive drugs. We are working together with seven other countries, namely eight countries of the European South, but also two out of the south, and we are strengthening our negotiating power. Since January, we have four teams of medicines that two or two of these countries will negotiate on behalf of 150 million citizens, the sum of which is the sum of this cooperation. This is a unique practice at European level. And we don't want to bless our beards, but we put a very important stone in this effort. As far as the criticism has been concerned, the 50 or 70 million possible, which is to overcome the EEA hospital medicinal product allocated to treat private clinics, was to enter the closed budget of the remaining EEA expenditure at 1,945,000. Mr. Georgiadis told us that this is a gift to the multinationals. Watch out, at 1,945,000,000, only 300,000 are domestic industry. The domestic industry's share of the generosity is 300,000,000 euros. The rest up to 1,945,000,000 concerns foreign corporations of multinationals. It is absolutely false, that is, what was said. The Greeks will, of course, be penalised, but the multinational companies will also be forced by this regulation, which we have taken back, not so that we do not have to deal with the problem - the problem exists and we have to deal with it - but to give a little time. I hope that in fifteen days we will have a agreed line and go to a fairer solution. On Monday, we have called on the ministry the representatives of both institutions with whom we are chosen to find a common line. Let me close with the issue that has been created with the threat of a company which has been seized by the TSE, which is the collective representation body of multinational companies in particular, which is threatening to withdraw an anti-cancer medicine from the relevant list. So we have told this company at the outset that this thing is a raw blackmail and that whether the country's cancer patients will have access to modern treatments is not a matter that depends on the business plan of a company and company profit. It is a political issue and we told them that this issue will not be left to it. We have launched a package of political interventions to give the signal that we do not have a front with the companies. We have a front for practices and behaviour. So we will give the signal that these practices are not tolerated, even if we are a country that is bankrupt and under comitology. So the Minister for Health sent letters to all the counterparts of the European Union, to the Commissioner for Health of the European Union, with whom I had a telephone conversation, to the World Health Organisation, who today sent us a letter which says that it supports Greece in its attempt to access the medicine of the country's population and to strengthen universal coverage. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] It has been signed by Susanna Jakab, the director of the P.O.O.S. regional office. I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council if he is prepared to do so. I'm tabling it for the Minutes. [[At this point, Minister Andreas Xanthos submits for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We will put it to the Council of Heads and raise it to our counterparts, whom we are working with in the south of Europe. Because this unfair practice is undermining any margin of understanding and cooperation between countries. Indeed, with sensitivity to the people, we also invited the patient's associations and explained them and tried to give them the feeling that what we are doing is not a fight with the industry, it is a struggle to ensure their own right to access the medicines they need documented. Now we have an evaluation mechanism for the pharmaceutical industry. This is the second structural measure. We're done negotiating with the institutions. We have a ready plan and we are setting up a HTA Commission for the first time in the country. It was a huge institutional deficit in the pharmaceutical policy. We're going through it and in the next few months we're going to have it together. Later we will also build an overall evaluation body and we will actually give the opportunity to medicines with therapeutic added value, which are documented by literature, to be compensated in the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u475	Minister, that's what you're going to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u476	So I conclude by saying that we understand the difficulties and problems, particularly in the sensitive area of the medicine, we understand the agony of companies in the labour force, which have jobs, which bring added value to the country, to ensure their sustainability. We understand the need to have a balanced line that takes into account the needs and the proper functioning of the market, but above all, we will be with the needs of the citizens and their right to have dignity and safety at the time of the disease. That's the line we're going to follow. And we believe that with the political moves we have made at this time we are strengthening this perspective and we call on the political forces of the country to place themselves in a responsible position on this issue and not to come here and act as neutral commentators. We really call on the political forces! A lot of non-governmental organizations - and it is to their honour - have these days in the forefront of PRAKSIS - signed by the Doctors of the World, the Doctors Without Borders, the EKPIZO and many others - have sent us a letter and are told that they are with us in trying to ensure the right to access and universal coverage of citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u477	The debate on the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Health is adjourned at the outset: "The harmonisation of Greek law with the European Directive 2003/88/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 November 2003 on certain aspects of the organization of working time" regarding the organization of the working time of doctors and dentists of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 November 2003. - I.D. Doctors' arrangements. and other provisions.’; Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u478	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u479	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u480	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u481	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u482	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u483	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u484	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u485	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u486	Consequently, the Legislation of the Ministry of Health: “The harmonisation of Greek law with the European Directive 2003/88/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 November 2003 on certain aspects of the organization of working time” regarding the organisation of the working time of doctors and dentists of the ECA. - I.D. Doctors' arrangements. and other provisions’ was approved by a majority in principle. We are going to vote on the articles and they will be voted on separately. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u487	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u488	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u489	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u490	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u491	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u492	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u493	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u494	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u495	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u496	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u497	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u498	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u499	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u500	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u501	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u502	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u503	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u504	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u505	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u506	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u507	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u508	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u509	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u510	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u511	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u512	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u513	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u514	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u515	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u516	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u517	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u518	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u519	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u520	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u521	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u522	Article 4 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 5 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u523	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u524	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u525	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u526	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u527	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u528	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u529	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u530	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u531	Article 5 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 6 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u532	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u533	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u534	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u535	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u536	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u537	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u538	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u539	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u540	Article 6 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 7 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u541	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u542	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u543	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u544	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u545	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u546	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u547	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u548	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u549	Article 7 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u550	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u551	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u552	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u553	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u554	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u555	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u556	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u557	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u558	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Can Article 9, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u559	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u560	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u561	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u562	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u563	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u564	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u565	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u566	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u567	Article 9 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u568	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u569	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u570	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u571	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u572	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u573	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u574	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u575	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u576	Article 10 was therefore unanimously accepted. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u577	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u578	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u579	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u580	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u581	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u582	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u583	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u584	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u585	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 12 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u586	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u587	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u588	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u589	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u590	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u591	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u592	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u593	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u594	Article 12 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does the House agree to Rule 13, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u595	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u596	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u597	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u598	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u599	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u600	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u601	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u602	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u603	Article 13 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Article 14 shall be withdrawn and the other Articles shall be renumbered. Does the House agree to the new Article 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u604	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u605	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u606	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u607	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u608	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u609	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u610	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u611	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u612	The new Article 14 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Does the House agree to the new Article 15, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u613	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u614	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u615	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u616	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u617	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u618	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u619	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u620	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u621	The new Article 15 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept the new Article 16 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u622	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u623	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u624	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u625	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u626	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u627	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u628	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u629	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u630	The new Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 17 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u631	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u632	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u633	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u634	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u635	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u636	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u637	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u638	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u639	The new Article 17 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the new Article 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u640	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u641	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u642	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u643	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u644	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u645	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u646	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u647	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u648	The new Article 18 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House accept the new Article 19, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u649	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u650	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u651	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u652	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u653	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u654	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u655	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u656	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u657	The new Article 19 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 1334 and a special number 101, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u658	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u659	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u660	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u661	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u662	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u663	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u664	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u665	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u666	The amendment with a general number 1334 and a special 101 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same articles. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 1339 and a specific 104 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u667	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u668	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u669	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u670	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u671	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u672	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u673	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u674	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u675	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1339 and a special 104 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u676	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u677	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u678	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u679	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u680	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u681	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u682	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u683	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u684	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the Legislation of the Ministry of Health: “The harmonisation of Greek law with the European Directive 2003/88/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 November 2003 on certain aspects of the organization of working time” regarding the organisation of the working time of doctors and dentists of the ECA. - I.D. Doctors' arrangements. Other provisions’ has been accepted in principle and in Articles. We move on to vote on the bill and on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u685	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u686	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u687	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u688	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u689	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u690	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u691	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the Legislation of the Ministry of Health: “The harmonisation of Greek law with the European Directive 2003/88/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 November 2003 on certain aspects of the organization of working time” regarding the organisation of the working time of doctors and dentists of the ECA. - I.D. Doctors' arrangements. and other provisions’ has been accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u692	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u693	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-09-S1-commons.u694	With the consent of the House at 18.45 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 10 November 2017, and 10.00 minutes at the sitting of the House: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
