ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-23-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House. [[They are announced to the House by the Secretary of Parliament, Anastasia Gara, Member of the European Parliament, the following:]] [[A. PRESENTATION OF REFERENCES]] [[To enter page 1a]] B. REQUESTS OF SUPPORT IN BULGARIES
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-23-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We have received from the Secretary-General of the Government an information note informing us what questions cannot be discussed and what will be discussed today. The second question, under number 353/16-1-2017, of the second question of the Athens MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotarou to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on "anotheral action by Turkish agents and their representatives in Thrace", will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister responsible abroad. The third, with number 354/17-1-2017, a top-stage question by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister for Migration Policy, on the "spatalls and the irresponsible management of the refugee" will not be discussed due to lack of competence. Because it is responsible for the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity and for the financial body. The following questions will not be discussed as a result of an impediment to the relevant ministers and will be redefined for discussion: The first question under number 347/16-1-2017 of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP Christos Boukokorous to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the rationalisation of the railway routes Volos - Larissa and Larissa - Thessaloniki, will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport Mr Christos Spirtzis. For this reason, there will also be no discussion of the question and application number 2117/100/19-12-2016 of the documents submitted by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Kegeroglou Vassiliou to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the delay in the completion of the project "Panormos - Eanthi". The second question under number 352/16-1-2017, the first question of the Evian MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaos Michou to the Minister of the Interior, on the "exploitation of thorough research into the extensive fires in Chios, Evia and Thassos", will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Interior Mr. Nicholas Toska. The fourth question with number 360/17-1-2017, the first question of the Greek Communist Party MP Iraklios Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Education, Research and Religion, concerning the coverage of the vacancies of teachers at the Gymnasium of the Municipality of Phaistos, will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou. The first question under number 1996/90/14-12-2016 was asked and application for the filing of documents of the Deputy Laconia of the New Republic, Athanasios Davakis, to the Minister of National Defence, concerning estimates of revenue from the exploitation of the property of the Armed Forces, will not be discussed, due to the impediment of the Minister of National Defence Mr. Panos Kammenos Kammenos. The third question by MP Attica of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Finance on excise duty on wine will not be discussed, due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance, Euklidis Tsakalotou. Ladies and gentlemen, the third question will now be discussed under number 327/10-1-2017, a topical question for the President of Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Kegeroglu Vassiliou to the Minister for Economy and Development, on the need for sustainable regulation of red housing loans. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes to begin with.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-23-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, private debt data, up to date and overdue, in our home country show that it is touching the level of public debt. The debts to the public net, the insurance funds, the municipalities and, of course, the banks are that class. This serious phenomenon, which is even growing, needs to be addressed if we see how the debts to the ECJ are increased, such as the dues for electricity, for example. If there is no treatment, I think we will not be able to stop the vicious circle and create conditions for a different economic environment for psychology. More specifically, of course, the private debt issue is housing and consumer loans, due housing and consumer loans. In the sense of 'violence', we do not only mean those that have ceased to be served, but also those which are served through 'violence', either because after their regulation after a while they have been made redundant or because their service is done by means of forced payment by wage or pension, when loans from the Deposit and Loan Fund are made. The problem is a big one. The Bank of Greece has provided data on the increase in these outstanding loans and, of course, the ones that are regulated and restructured are constantly accumulated. That is why I brought this issue to a discussion, to see whether there is any development in the issue of sustainable regulation, improvement in the Code of Conduct held by banks, whether there have been thoughts and proposals following cooperation with the Association of Greek Banks or with the Government's staff, in order to protect the first residence, but above all to allow for sustainable regulation of late loans, housing and consumer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-23-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The current question will be answered by the Minister for Economy and Development, Mr Papadimitriou. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-23-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. As far as your timely question is concerned, I would like to point out the following: the Government as a whole since taking up its duties and, more generally, the Minister for Economy and Development has dealt with the issue of dealing with red loans. Following a thorough study of your proposal to regulate red loans, you forgot to mention it to me, which you presented at the Group of the Democratic Integration Parliament on November 7, 2016, we consider that the measures already taken by the Ministry in any case take over your proposal to the maximum extent. In fact, the provisions passed by Parliament, on a proposal from the current government, lay down a wider protection network for the weaker and at the same time introduce new institutions and protection procedures. In particular, I will take note of what we have already done. Firstly, we have reformed the law on highly debited households and now they can be incorporated into protective arrangements for the first residence of two on three borrowers. For 25% of them, which correspond to the weakest, financial support from the state itself is provided for so that they can respond to the doses. If we look at the current provisions of the Excessive Households Act, we will see that borrowers - applicants with an objective value of up to EUR 180 000, if they are single, EUR 220 000, if they are married, and that amount is increased by EUR 20 000 per child, up to three children. Accordingly, they should have income on the basis of reasonable living costs of up to EUR 13,906 in the case of one person, EUR 23,659, in the case of two persons, while for each child up to three children they are counted in addition to the reasonable living costs of each household of EUR 5,714. Secondly, we completed the revision of the Code of Conduct Banking in cooperation with the Bank of Greece, the revised Code of Conduct, which has already been in place since 1 October 2016. Banks as well as foreign credit institutions, financial institutions and management companies of L.4354/2015 are required to assess from the outset whether the non-response of borrowers to their contractual liabilities is documented by particular economic weakness. They should, in fact, propose debt regulation solutions, including more favourable prolongation or impairment of debt, taking into account the financial situation of each borrower at any time. Moreover, creditors must take into account the reasonable living costs of each borrower, as determined objectively by the Governmental Board of Private Debt Management. Thirdly, we have introduced a strictly defined regulatory framework for the management of non-performing loans. In this respect, I must stress that, following a persistent negotiation with the institutions, the non-transfer of loans linked to the first residence by 31 December 2017 is explicitly foreseen. In particular, red loans are not transferred, regardless of the category of loan, i.e. not only housing, but also consumer, repair, etc. and small and medium-sized enterprises that have a primary residence guarantee with an objective value of up to 140 thousand euros and without an income criterion, protecting against sale up to 2018. Fourth, special reference is to establish and operate the Private Debt Management Special Secretariat, with a view to strengthening the Private Debt Management Board, which has been reformed with substantial responsibilities for defining and implementing the national strategy for addressing red loans. It should be noted that the special secretariat is to develop information and support structures for borrowers throughout the country. It is also worth noting that the government is also moving in terms of preventing overcompensation, and in the light of the citizens' proper and complete information on their rights. In accordance with Article 67 of Law 4446/2016, the obligation of each authorised payment service provider operating in the country to disclose to the Secretariat-General of Trade and Consumers the pricing data for certain essential products and services it offers was established.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-23-S1-commons.u6	Minister, you have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-23-S1-commons.u7	Finally, this provision is part of the effort aimed at developing electronic payments and, on the other hand, at informing consumers and traders about the services provided by banks and tariff policies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-23-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Minister. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-23-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, if this system had worked, as you have explained to us, then the Bank of Greece would not have carried out this report on red loans, which highlights not only their increase, but especially the question of how the banks regulate them is very fragile and the process of their service is soon to regain. In fact, they are never ‘red’. So this is an issue that you need to see from a closer, not theoretically, as it has entered into the code, but has not been evaluated how it works. I must tell you that this proportion of loans is very important. Banks are reducing the dose over a period of one year, or two years, and then returning a very high amount of monthly payments, which is impossible to pay. They do not make a substantial prolongation, but when they do, they load the borrower with interest on interest. It's unacceptable. They put interest on interest. Interest on late payment should be deducted for the whole period that the loan could not be paid. The proposals he had put forward and Mr Salas, the former Governor of Piraeus Bank, for the "freezing" of part of the loan, should be assessed, so that the instalments paid by the borrower after the arrangement also relate to capital. Why, basically, what do the banks get? They take up instalments relating to interest on late payment that they charged in the previous period. So we have - and I have said two examples - a lot of room for improving the Code of Conduct, on which the banks operate, and if we have to legislate, after a wide debate on what is the reality. Of course, we also need to see the issue of conscientious rewards, because that is also an issue. The consistent borrower, what does he have to gain from the consistency of now? In that sense, Minister, let us not restate that everything works as the papers and suggestions of your predecessor, Mr Stathakis, say. Let us look at the problems that the Bank of Greece points out, let us look at the problems raised by consumer and borrowers' associations and make some necessary corrections so that we do not see first-listed residences being auctioned because - look! - every Wednesday so far we have the strike of notaries who are not part of the process. But, in March, electronic auctions begin. This at first pilots and then it will unfold. After 31-12-2017, where is the protection of first residence, with the low limits, what will happen? The improvements, interventions and corrections must therefore be made so that in 2017 each borrower and each banking institution can deal with these problems and conclude this process without risk in any case of auctioning the home. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-23-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-23-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Firstly, I would like to say that the report of the Bank of Greece - the one I have - shows that red loans have been stopped and have even begun to decrease, so I do not know what report you are referring to, Mr Kegeroglu. Mr Sala's proposals must be adopted by the banks. They have nothing to do with legislation. So I think that this would be a good thing to discuss with the banks, but I do not think you expect us to legislate. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-23-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known in this House that from the above Western theories we are attending our meeting of nine students and a attendant from the IEK 'AKM'. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I would like to tell you that you are following the parliamentary procedure. At this time in the House, MEPs are tabling questions to answer from the relevant ministers and MPs, who are asking questions, and the ministers, who are answering, are also present. Today we are discussing three questions, which is why the Chamber does not have many Members if you are wondering about the picture. We continue with the first with the number 346/16-1-2017 topical question of the new Republic MP Kilkis Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the delay in the damage assessments by ELGA in Kilkis Prefecture.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-23-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Of course - and unfortunately - this delay is not only about the Kilkis Prefecture but about the entire Greek territory. I was simply obliged to ask a few questions and a pity that the most recent Minister for Rural Development is not here to answer us. Of course, we will have the pleasure of listening to the State Secretary, but I would really like specific answers to be given. Minister, I have three specific cases in Kilkis. I will tell you, to tell me if the time and procedure under which the ELGA has dealt with these cases is reasonable. Case one: Damages in Filiria Kilkis, which took place on trees in March 2016 and for which no assessment has been made so far. Case 2: We have grains, due to quartz loss, damage on June 5 in the area of Physkask Kilkis. Estimates have been made. The results have not been achieved since June. Third case: In January 2016, also, losses were declared in cereals and so far the findings have not been taken. For example, to show you that there is now a long-term delay both in the assessment process and in the process of sending the findings, in order to object and at some point allow farmers to be satisfied. I mentioned specific examples, although I am not used to it, so that anyone who listens to us is able to understand the scale of the suffering of the farmers. Farmers pay to have insurance cover. The movement of the assessors is within this payment. It has a reward from the farmers' side. It is not allowed, while everyone has pointed out the dangers of the amendment that you made to the law on the transport of the officials responsible, at this time we are at point zero. Please, Minister, for your answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-23-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food will answer Mr. Vassiliou. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-23-S1-commons.u15	Your Honor, you have raised three cases, of which, if I have listened well, one refers to the period of January 2016. However, the damage in January 2016, which you refer to, is not in the timely question, while detailed and detailed reports of the damages made in April and March in specific areas of the Municipality of Paionia, as well as in June. So I can responsibly answer you on both occasions: the hails in the cereals of June 2016 and the hails again on tree crops in April and March 2016. You yourself said that in one case, in the case of cereals, estimates have been made and in the other case they have not been made. Why did this happen? Because Article 18(2) of the ELGA Regulation has been applied, which says that in the event of extensive damage - which has actually been done in these areas - there are total estimates. He has this right to the ELGA, and he is also in the interest of the producers. They have an opinion from the ELGA services on the injurious event at that time, according to the service documents, which have been provided to us. Why do you rightly refer to your question that after so long how will they appreciate? Services have an opinion. However, because Article 18(2) has been applied, there are comprehensive assessments and we will have written the findings in the near future. As far as cereals are concerned, I shall be placed in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-23-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-23-S1-commons.u17	Because I want there to be - and I see that there is - a mood for a direct response and a substance of response, Minister, I did only mention two cases in my question, but you know that, once my question has been made public, I had a large number of reports from farmers from all over Greece on similar cases and I mentioned this one, one of them, in January 2016, because you understand that one year has been completed. I think it is understandable to you too - but if you find it difficult to say so - that the time of completion of assessments and findings is much slower than this time that farmers knew about in relation to the ELGA. The ELGA has unfortunately been devalued lately, there is a strike you know, made some moves to cover the issues that have been created, but I think they are not the best. Let's get you a permanent staff. You have now made a call for the 27th of the month for eight months in urgent procedure. Needs are known. Why urgent procedure? You should have started it earlier. No one would say anything about that kind of notice. I insist again on this: there is competitivity. The value of these movements and of these fees is substantially paid by the farmer himself. I think, Minister, that you are due out of these time commitments - so to speak - for the damage of 2016, we cannot have entered 2017 and still have unsubscribed findings for the spring and January 2016 period. I want a commitment, as specific as you can, to complete the damages at least by autumn 2016. I think that the farmers should have this picture so that they know where they are going. Of course, I would ask you to find that procedure, by which time the problems that have arisen with the law that your government voted in 2015 and you have had the objections of the geotechnical and all relevant chambers, that the movement and travel of these civil servants will create many issues. They are not travellers who pay the public for civil servants. It is within the framework of estimated expenditure. Please, Minister, because I know that you are from an area in which you will certainly have similar nuisances, the issue must be resolved definitively. Send ELGA with permanent staff. Some other Ministers in some other Ministries arbitrarily and unlegally extended contracts where they were not requested. We are not saying here that you should do something non-legislative, but publish permanent staff, proceed quickly. It is not possible for farmers to be obliged to be insured, to pay it beforehand and not to have the benefits of this procedure. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-23-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-23-S1-commons.u19	Thank you. Mr Colleagues, you know very well and what I can repeat is that the Ministry of Rural Development is making every effort to compensate all farmers and all farmers and all those who have proved to be damaged in their property and those who have recently been affected by the frost, especially farmers. I'm coming back to your question. I left for my dentistry the crop in the Physkas area of Kilkis, which you said the assessments were made. I now tell you that the estimates have been made, they have been completed and, in February, compensation will be paid to the insurers. But it must be - not that you do such things to God! - without populism, that when ELGA himself acknowledges that the disasters are extensive and large, this must be understood by Kilkis' farmers. It has been applied for the first time for tree crops, which have indeed been delayed by assessments, Article 18(2) and overall assessments. And when are overall estimates created? In case of extensive and large losses. Therefore, the ELGA acknowledges that extensive and large damage has been done in the regions concerned.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-23-S1-commons.u20	However, these conclusions did not come either, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-23-S1-commons.u21	In the near future, estimates are expected to be carried out. The Committees have already been set up, I repeat, for the overall assessments. But not in the case of cereals. As far as staff are concerned, you are well aware that temporary staff have been declared this week. I will only repeat - and I shall end with this - that, first, cereals will be compensated in February 2017, the estimates have already been made and the conclusions on the overall estimate for trees are expected. The Ministry of Rural Development is also making every effort for those who have been affected lately by the frost. There will soon be communications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-23-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr Minister, both for respecting time and from you and from Mr Georgioda. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, five students and students and an educational attendant from the high school and the lyric ranks of Agathonisios. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] As I said earlier to friends, ladies and gentlemen from AKMH, who are next to you, I would like you to know that you are following a parliamentary procedure. At this stage, the House debates questions put by Members, on matters which are of interest to them and which are answered by the ministers with responsibility for the questions put by Members. These are the Members who are in love and the ministers who are answering. I am referring to this, so that you do not have the question, because there are not many Members of this House at today's sitting. It is not a normal legislative meeting. It is just parliamentary control. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform you that under No 964/709, of 23 January 2017, the decision of the President of the Parliament was made by Rule 46 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Library Committee for the Second Session of the Parliamentary Period. Also under Nos 965/710 and 966/711, of 23 January 2017, the decisions of the President of the Parliament were made under Rule 43A of Parliament's Rules of Procedure Special Permanent Committees of Parliamentary Ethics and Research and Technology, respectively, for the Second Session of the Parliamentary Period. The relevant decisions have been posted to 'Parliamentary Transparency' and will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-23-S1-commons.u23	The fourth, with number 320/9-1-2017, a topical question by MP Florin of New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Antoniadis, to the Minister for Economy and Development, on the progress of the projects and studies on the 5th ETUC (ESDP) in Florina, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. Mr. Antoniadis, the Minister is not here to answer you. We've been notified that he's in a meeting with the Prime Minister and that's why he's unable to attend to you. Please, if you want to comment on something as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-23-S1-commons.u24	Mr President, today I did six hundred miles. Florina has a meter of snow. Problems are a lot. Temperature is -15 degrees Celsius. We left the constituency, did six hundred kilometres, leaving our fellow citizens and the Minister is not here, not giving an explanation earlier. In other words, they are unspeakable and unacceptable, both in terms of 'h' and 'h'. And it's not the first time. This phenomenon has been repeated. There has been a timely question for three months. On the one hand, we go to the other, because he doesn't know any ministry whose competence it is. We do six hundred miles and they don't let us know. What can I say? Is that a behavior?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-23-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Comrade, you're right. I am sorry to have to apologise for this suffering from the President-in-Office. The Minister has assured us that he has done all he can to be present, but has failed to fulfil his obligations - he is in a meeting with the Prime Minister - they have not allowed him to do so. With a good heart, let's move on. From there on, we'll find the process that it takes to talk about. The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-23-S1-commons.u26	With the consent of the House at 18.45 minutes the sitting for the next Wednesday, 25 January 2017, at 12 noon, on the subject of the House's legislative work: according to the agenda that has been distributed.
