ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: According to Parliament's 18-5-2017 authorisation, the PKB's minutes were endorsed by the Bureau at its meetings of Thursday 18 May 2017 with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Retirement provisions and modification of the provisions of Law 4387/2016, measures to implement the budget objectives and reforms, social support measures and work arrangements, the medium-term framework of the Financial Strategy 2018-2021 and other provisions’.]] We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION Special session of the Parliament for the Memorandum of Remembrance of the Greeks of the Pontou. Indicatively, today's meeting is honored by the presence of the President of the Greek Parliament, former Presidents of the Parliament, distinguished representatives of Pontian Hellenism and its unions. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty-nine students and students and four teachers from the Elementary School of Pamphilis Lesvos and 46th Municipal School of Piraeus. We welcome the children! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, with Law 2193/1994 the Greek Parliament recognised the genocide of the Greeks of the Pontou and established 19 May as Memory Day. It was a decision that we consider it to be an expression of respect and honour for the suffering of the victims, an attempt to maintain the historical memory, but also an opportunity to better understand history and, in particular, to its darkest aspects, which is an essential prerequisite for dramatic experiences such as the one we are saying today, to remain definitively in the past. Let me say at this point that we are not working on dark pages of history in order to eradicate passion or irritate electoral audiences, nor do we sum up genocide in order to trigger racist reflexes. However, we must say that we do not put the drama of an entire people under the carpet of history. A prerequisite for any good relations, for any understanding, is anyone who can reconcile with his past, however painful this process may be, but at the same time it can also be a clearing-up of a historical drama. The process of forming the nations - states has been cruel and often violent. He had a lot of blood, sweat and tears. In the case of Turkey, the formation of the modern Turkish state on the ruins of the Ottoman Empire, one of the four empires broken up during the Great War, meant persecution, displacement or extermination of the populations that were ethnically and religiously different. For the Greeks of Pontou it was hundreds of thousands of murdered, displaced, refugees. It is important to remember that historical memory, without fanaticism, without intolerance, is important, with respect for the historical truth and passions of people. It is important to remember the dramatic consequences of extremist nationalism and the value of rights, freedoms and tolerance to the different, the peaceful coexistence of peoples. Especially today, when all I have said is being hard tested in neighbouring Turkey, and the wider region is living a period of extreme tension, unprecedented retraining and prolonged instability. It is important to call for the causes of mass crime and humanitarian disasters. Their understanding, guided by historical truth, is one of the most important conditions to prevent their repetition in the future. Although it is not at all certain that history ultimately teaches, it is important that we try, however tragically we can, to draw conclusions from the past and, however difficult this may be, the States themselves to critically address their choices and recognise their responsibilities for the facts, however tragic they were, such as the ones we are discussing today. It would be a much healthier basis for their relations with others in today's and tomorrow's world. Ladies and gentlemen, we are honouring the victims with respect. We're reckoning for the sacrifices. We express our great respect for the struggles of the Greek Poles for survival and preparation. From this last point we draw optimism for the future. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Parliament today honors the memory of the Genocide of Pontian Hellenism. It is a day of memory which was introduced in 1994, seventy years after the events to which it refers. These are the tragic events of the period 1914-1923, that is, during World War I and the Greek-Turkish war that followed. The account of dead and displaced persons was unprecedented. At least 350,000 are estimated to be dead, although no one can accurately count. Innumerable displaced, tortured, refugees, parts of an image of similar sufferings to the other Ottoman Christians of the Ottoman Empire. Those who escaped took the martyr's way of refugee. They left the dead behind. They left behind the legendary places: Banking, Surmena, Kerasounda, Sinopi, Axios, Santa Cotyora, Tripoli, Rizunta, Argyroupoli, Pulandsaki, Oinoi, Nicopolis, Innepolis, Swebastia, Ophis, Amusea, Matsuka. The living took the way of refugee and after countless hardships came to a country that was bounced in its contradictions, in a country poor, but eventually in a place unhospitable. But they survived, with their persuasiveness, and they grew up. This is a tragic period. The events of 1914 were not lightning in hunger. It was the culmination of a climate of mutual distrust and hostility, which had begun to be built since the beginning of the 20th century when it was now evident that the Ottoman Empire would probably be dissolved. The more national claims were made in the region the pain imposed on the population. Mass deportations, genocide, ethnic cleansing and caravans of refugees had shaped the background and generalised violence that would accompany the outbreak of World War I. It was a period when all the certainties were lost or, more ironically, they were reversed. The hope of previous years had become a nightmare. It is not time, ladies and gentlemen, to refer to the wider context or to the slightest extent to what the Pontius and the other communities of the time have suffered. Often enclosed behind political agendas and entrenched shapes, we hesitate to engage in processes that would allow us to understand historical events that have found their way in national memory. The tragic events that marked the course of Pontian Hellenism belong to them. We believe that the very procedure that would allow them to be understood would restored would mitigate the uniqueness of the tragedy. You shouldn't. Because the process through which the past is recognized and effectively honoured follows the very opposite course, namely the course of rehab with it through processes that encourage people to reverse the historical context, the experience of the people who experienced the fact, the way small and tragic stories are bored into the great process, through such a process that leads to empathy. Then we would understand that the tragicity of the period 1914-1923 is not only about the dead. It is precisely the difference between the moment the old world had not yet died and the new one had not yet been born. This is a process in which every certainty was lost, where the neighbor was turned into an enemy, where the past was rewritten so that the former colonies would be excluded, where violence of naughty bodies devoured the feelings of alienation and hostility and hardened the dividing lines between centuries-long communities. So let us reminisce in the last years of Pontian Hellenism in the Ottoman Empire, beyond formal and legal terms. To see these people's own tragic experience, but not to stay in it, to see their resistance. Few are mentioned that these people, whole families with babies, took the mountains and resisted the extermination marches. Let us not lose from our perspective that the hope for tomorrow is the one that allowed them to withstand even the hardest times of these persecutions. The testimonies are shocking. It is very important that we keep together with the tragicity of experience and the way people have not been held in history. They were trying to influence the evolution of things. So let us not only in the past as a sign of honor to those who suffered and were wronged, but above all to understand and deepen our historical thinking. The mouse custom of "Thoma as Tafia" comes from very deep and far away. On Sunday, Thomas relatives and friends of the dead gather in the cemeteries and upon the graves of their loved ones present a meal in honor of them. In this shocking way of communicating with their loved ones who are no longer with them, this people reminds us of every time the power of life itself. However, there is no greater recognition of and a greater tribute to the memory of tragic events in the past than to being able to distinguish the different forms of repetition and, of course, to prevent it. Only then will there be effective justice for the dead of Genocide. But this commitment to prevent such events, this attempt to understand the reasons for genocide, ethnic cleansing, massacres and exclusion, so this commitment to prevent these events is a culture of strengthening democracy itself, is a culture of unequivocally denounced racism. That is why the complaint from the Pontian Genocide must be synonymous with the commitment to democracy and the fight against all kinds of racism, otherwise this complaint is a socially dishonest attitude. The memory of the struggle and the uprooting of Pontian Hellenism is a memory that has been alive in Greek society, especially in recent decades. It is also a memory in which people seem to consent from different political spaces and from different generations, a memory that had previously been excluded mainly due to the divergence of their cultural features as they formed over the centuries. Today, its universal acceptance and its national character is the living proof that our societies must function inclusively and not by excluding communities that are, on a case-by-case basis, at the limit of subsidiarity. Let us have this democratic order in mind in the face of the complex challenges of the present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u3	Now Mr. Theocratic has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the House, Ministers-elects, chosen guests, former Presidents of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, allow me this day, which is the day of the Pontius Genocide, to begin by quoting a few lyrics from the well-known song of the well-known, famous neurosurgeon and prematurely lost, from Xerolim Kozani, Christos Antoniadis: "The country I lost, cried and hurt. I'm sorry and I'm reluctant to overthrow. I lost my graves, and I buried them, too. The meter is up and running, and I carry the cold ones." Ladies and gentlemen, we are honored here at the temple of democracy on the 98th anniversary of the Genocide of Pontian Hellenism, because, as Ellie Visel pointed out, "the concierge always kills twice, the second time with oblivion." It is precisely because there must be no genocide of memory. The Genocide of the Greeks of Pontou was carried out, as the Minister said, with massacres and displacement against Greek populations in the region of Pontou from the New Turks movement in the period 1914-1923, and it is estimated that it cost three hundred and six thousand to three hundred two thousand Greeks, according to the international literature. It is a genocide which is regarded as part of the genocide of the East and which has taken place in parallel with genocide against other populations, namely Armenians and Assyrians, so that these individual persecutions - genocide - are considered as part of a single genocide policy. The process of extermination of the Greek populations of the Pontou is historically distinguished in three phases: First, from the beginning of the First World War to the occupation of Banking from the Russian army, that is 1914 to 1916, the latter ends with the end of the First World War, 1916-1918 and the latter ends with the implementation of the Pact for the exchange of Greek and Turkish populations, 1918-1923. But who was the Hellenism of the Pontou? Since the Banking in 1461 by the Ottomans, the mind and Greek conscience of the Pontius were not altered and soon dominated the economic life of the area, mainly living in the urban centers. The economic recovery was combined with their demographic and spiritual rise. In 1865 the Greeks of Pontus amounted to two hundred and sixty-five thousand souls, in 1880, in three hundred thirty thousand, and in the early 20th century they more than doubled and touched the seven hundred thousand Pontius. In parallel, there was also an increase in schools. In 1860 there were a hundred schools in Pontto, while in 1919 they were counted in a thousand four hundred one, among them the famous Watch Tower of the Bank. Apart from schools, there were many printing works, magazines, newspapers, clubs and theatres, highlighting their high spiritual level and which came here in Greece from the next generations of Pontiums. I would like to mention some important stigmas of genocide: let us say about Liman Von Sanders, the German general who was the inspiration of the plan of genocide of the Christian populations of Asia Minor and the Pontou. For his services he will be rewarded by the Turks with the title of pasha. He was the man who inspired the leaders of the New Turks Emmer and Tallat the basic principle of political philosophy, that "in every country the nation's strength is brought by the homogeneity of its population", as well as by the slogan "Islamic Turkey for the Islamic Turks". The "small taboo", the death battalions. The recruitment of the Greeks to the "male tabourou" was an evil project aimed at the extermination of the male Greek population, a plan by Liman Von Sanders. They recruited the entire male population except old and old. They had to break stones for twelve hours a day with a lack of food and sleep. The colds, rains, the terrible heat in the summer, the diseases brought the result anticipated by the German official saying: "With the system that I propose to you, their death is certain, but before they die, they will offer for the nation valuable services. In addition, women will not give birth to children and so will solve your demographic problem, while this hateful and dishonest race will be extinct, and the Yunan properties will go to the public, that is to say everyone." So the Turks then discovered long before Hitler the camps of death. Displacement, white massacres. The second method of extinction of Christians was deportation. In the winter, women and older children were driven thousands of miles to death. The men on the way were kidnapped and executed. These are things that Consul Horton had mentioned in his well-known book 'The curse of Asia', which states: 'The long line leading to death'. Such narrations exist in every family, as in mine. The Turkish administration hung hundreds of Pontius in Samson's Schedule Square. The famous and freaky Topal Osman was the perpetrator of Pontian Hellenism, the bloodthirsty killer. His pockets of ruthless criminals, who often provoked the horror and disobedience of even their fellow Turks. The Pafras region is genocide in full. Men are slaughtered and women and children are sent exile in winter. After April 1920 Kemal unleashes generalized persecutions, giving the final blow to the Hellenism of the East. The slogan of Kemal is "No Turk will protect a Christian during his extermination." So the Turks fantasize to destroy the Greeks in every way. The command of the general administration of Kemal, which says: "Every soldier must do his duty and kill four to five Greeks for the majesty of the country. All men shall be ordered to comply with this order.’; And how many more! In Amossia, criminal courts. The exiles of the table Greeks, the Valley of the Devil, which, on 3 July 1921, eight hundred children were slaughtered on the road to Zogourlou by Topal Osman. In 1994, the Greek Parliament voted unanimously to declare 19 May as "Memory Day for the Genocide of the Greeks on the Asia Minor Pontou". Also, in 1998 - let us not forget - the 14th September was voted as the "Day of the National Remembrance of the Genocide of the Greeks of Asia Minor by the Turkish state". The scientific recognition of Genocide comes in December 2007 from the International Association of Genocide Studies, International Association of Genocide Schools, which officially recognised the Genocide of the Greeks and adopted a resolution on it. A few states, but also several states in the United States, have recognised Genocide and I think it is the duty of our House, ladies and gentlemen, and of the Friends' Groups to ask colleagues from other countries to recognise the genocide we are honouring today. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that the unforgettable homeland of Pontou is being modulated and resurrected today through dance, language and song. The dead, the displaced, the tortured glorify not only in listening to the words and memorials, which are certainly necessary, but every time thousands of Pontians' hands are united and raised, dancing and singing in the rewards organized by the countless mouse clubs throughout Greece and abroad. They rejoice every time thousands of Pontius, young, older and small children form the endless cycling dances of our country, shaping their bodies in the hearing of the pontian lyra and releasing them to endless energy. Whenever the Pontius drag and flood the historical monastery of Agios Ioannis Vasselonas in my places, to Ellesconto Kosanis and Virgin Mary Sumola in Vermio and so many monasteries that have been resurrected. Ladies and gentlemen, 'Romania' will rise and bring more'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the Educational Programme "World Republic", nineteen students and students and a training meeting from the 11th High School of Heidari. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Antoniadis from New Democracy has the floor. Please, Mr Antoniadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, Mr President-in-Office of the Parliament, first morning. Allow me before I begin my speech to welcome the chosen guests, who are honoured with their presence, but in particular, three persons, starting from Mr. Andrios Wolfford, IAGS President, President of the International Academy of Genocide Study. Mr Andrew, welcome to Greece, welcome to our Parliament. [[Applause]] I should also like to welcome Mr. Varthythiadis Giorgos and on behalf of the International Covenant of Pontini Greeks Mrs. Varythythiadis and all other representatives of Pontian Hellenism. [[Applause]] "The world was rounded up by one - one of the villagers and put them in a house at church, men, women, children, old men, babies. They set fire to the house and burned them alive. Before they were burned alive, four young women chose to keep them for themselves. Then they set the house on fire. The fire's on. The voices reached the sky. The house was short of Kota's. From the villages that had remained intact until now, twenty other eight were looted, while women and children, infants, girls were forced to stay in the countryside, they were treated brutally and many of them were sick and hundreds died. Many children have lost their parents, wandering pointlessly and have died on the street from hunger and cold. Only one part of them is buried, while the bodies of the rest are nourished by the vultures and crows.’ In December 1916 the Austrian Ambassador to Constantinople informed his government of the latest events in Pontou and specifically in the martyrdom Hatto. On December 11, 1916, five villages were looted, then burned, the inhabitants were displaced. On December 12, 1916, villages burned on the outskirts of the city. On December 14, the entire villages burn together with schools and churches. On December 17, in the Samsonda district, eleven villages were burned, looting continues, villagers are abused and others are abused and others, which do not fit human minds. The logic stops. And then the void." Austrian Deputy Consul in Asia informs the Austrian Foreign Minister of the decisions of the Motessarf Asian Rafet Bey. On November 28, 1916, Rafet Beis told me: "We have to finish with the Greeks. I sent to the outskirts to kill every Greek who meets in the street." Thousands of documentaries in the archives of the Great Powers of that time. These documentaries are living witnesses, eternal prosecutors of crimes committed against the whole of humanity and not only, of a people who only proclaimed it was the self-evident right to live on earth where he lived for more than three thousand years, under conditions of equality, justice and freedom. The New Turks and later the Kemals, after the loss of the Balkan territories, insecure the Asia Minor area, have already decided to wipe out Christian ethnic extinction since 1911. In 1913-1914 they started with the Greeks of Ionia, in 1915 with Armenians and Assyrians and in 1916 with the Greeks of Pontou. The policy of extinction of the Greeks of the Pontou was strategically drunk, because the developed economy, higher Greek education, deep religious conscience and culture were dangerous weapons for the smooth Turkishisation of the rich region, and of course the pillaging of the property. The usual way of extermination was displacement and the merciless tambour, the working battalions. Displacement was usually made in winter and under adverse weather conditions. The displaced were banned from carrying food, clothes, mattresses, while the process began with an unknown destination. At the same time, Greek homes invaded and were now occupied by Turkish neighbors. The stations were in the countryside in uninhabited areas to exclude supply. It was on purpose to decontaminate hot baths and to report them immediately to the frozen countryside. The pillaging of souls, bodies and property to the full. An Auschwitz in flow. Their exaggerated fanaticism even led them to restore slavery and depletion. The Turkish police officer of Baluk Hishar racing with a public preacher in July 1915: "I hand over Christians' women instead of five minutes the piece." The genocide of the Greeks of the Pontou, carried out by the New Turks and Kemalian movement, is estimated to cost more than three hundred thousand Greeks of the Pontou. Survivors came down to Upper Pontto, Soviet Union, and after the Asia Minor Destruction in Greece. These events are today recognised as genocide by the Greek state, Germany, Cyprus, Armenia, Sweden, certain federal republics of Russia, eight states of the USA, Australia, Austria, the Netherlands and international organisations such as the International Association of Genocide Studyers. After seventy years of silence, the Greek Parliament, after seventy years of silence, after seventy years of white pages in our history and seventy years of lycophilicity with Turkey, finally recognizes Genocide in 1994 and voted on 19 May as a day of memory of the Greek genocide of the Pontou. It is worth mentioning some names that have played a decisive role in the recognition of genocide: Michalis Charalabides, the generator of the idea, the shaper of a theory and a political strategy. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Sitting Euthymiadis, former President of the Federation of Pontian Associations of Northern Greece since 1988. First in the fight to claim genocide. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Andreas Papandreou, the Prime Minister for Recognizing Genocide. And, of course, the 1994 Parliament, which unanimously recognised Genocide. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Fotiadis Konstantinos, the professor of History who, through the fourteen volumes, documented the crime of Genocide in the Greek Parliament. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Parharides Georges, the man who founded the Pabontian Federation of Greece and has given 15 years of struggle for the international recognition of the Greeks of the Pontou. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, today's organized space is represented at national level by the Pambodian Federation of Greece with President Topalidis Christos and the International Confederation of Greece with President Parharides George. Both, along with federations from the outside - Europe, America, Australia and the East - give the fight for the international recognition of genocide. To conclude, it is to say that genocide is a crime that goes beyond the limits of national states. It's a crime against humanity. The international community must with all its institutions and institutions, firstly, recognise the Genocide of the Greeks of the Pontou, in order to rest the souls of our genocided brothers and prevent such crimes in the future. Secondly, condemn Turkey, which even today strongly refuses the crime and impairs the memory of the wronged Greek brothers of the Pontus. Let this talk be seen as a small memorial to the souls of our wronged brothers. Their memory is eternity.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u7	Mr Arvanitides from the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Polish associations, chosen guests, 19 May is a day of mourning and remembrance. It is a day of mourning and remembrance for the Genocide of at least three hundred and fifty thousand Greeks of the Sea from 1916 to 1923. It is a day that reminds us of the drama of our brothers Pontius, a drama that has been asking for justice for a whole century. The Genocide of the Greeks of the Pontus is not only an unreserved crime against humanity. It was an attempt to erupt violently thoughts, customs, customs and traditions of our ancestors. But ideas, ladies and gentlemen, do not die. The culture, culture and example of Pontius life still live lime. Days like today's emotions are lots and lots. I am well aware that words are too poor to ease the suffering of a genocide, the pain for those who have been exterminated in the raids, in the working classes, in the raids, in the chores, in the chores, in the violent deportations, in the relocations, in the hiking of thousands of kilometres. The issue is the actions, the actions that will bear the much-conscious justice, the actions that will ensure that we do not live in such a tragedy again. The Greek state's debt is lasting in two directions. We need coordinated initiatives for international and European recognition of the genocide of Pontian Hellenism, as part of the principles of international law and European institutions. But we need a real effort to translate to our children the greatness of the soul of the Greeks of the Pontou. You know, the lifeboat that accompanies me is one: "You're allowed to fall, you have to get up." In my life, too, this phrase took me a few times. The Greeks of Pontou are beacon and compass to me. They taught us with their passion what a struggle for survival, preparation, progress, prosperity and culture means. We've been taught what it's like to start from the beginning, not to bow down, get up on your feet and pull back ahead. This, ladies and gentlemen, is culture, it's culture, it's life's attitude. And this attitude of life, this example is our duty to go to the next generation. If we manage, ladies and gentlemen, to make our children the winners of life, then we will have offered enormous service at home, we will have practically shown our respect for the struggles and the suffering of hundreds of thousands of souls who have been victims of the pontian genocide. If we manage to make our children a winner of life, we won't have anything to fear. And I say this as a parentheses on the occasion of the crisis our country has experienced in recent years, a crisis that must not make us bend the head. In this sense, our education, scientific knowledge and documentation, the tradition that lives alive through the Pontian unions must be protected as an eyewitness Finally, we must remember that the Pontian issue for us is a living story. It's not just a historical matter. It's a political matter. It's not just about yesterday. It is about today and tomorrow. We should therefore, as a country, go on this difficult path based on the value of democracy, people's contribution and international law. We have the truth on our side, we are right on our side and justice always in this life sooner or later is rendered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, too. Mr. Shahinides from Golden Dawn has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u11	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u12	Mr. President, I'm sorry. A slight omission, due to the cutbacks I made. I forgot to mention an important fact, which shows the quality of our democracy. In 2013, we must mention, within the anti-racist law against the Prime Minister, the criminalisation of the denial of genocide was included. It's very important, along with everything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Shahinides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Dear guests, tears in our eyes have not yet dryed. We broke up with violence from the land of our ancestors. A land of Greek, whose Greekity is lost in the depths of history. We left behind this earth, sown with the holy bones of our ancestors, with the lifeless bodies of innocent women and children. The wounds are still open today. The memories of fresh. Just ninety eight years ago. Genocide, then, of Pontian Hellenism. I would say not only of Pontian Hellenism, but more generally of Hellenism. Perhaps, it is, in my humble and opinion, not right to honor only the Pontian Hellenism. There have also been victims of Asia Minor Hellenism, they have been victims of the Greeks of Kapadokia, although a different date has been set from today, on 17 September, to honour the memory of the victims of the Asia Minor Destruction. The Greekism of Asia Minor should be honored in one day. Because in numerically the victims of these genocide, these ethnic cleansing perhaps outweigh the victims of the genocide of our Armenian brothers. The perpetrators, our friends, the Turks. Our friends, the Turks! Really, whether there really can be a Greek-Turkish friendship, when I give my hand, and should I measure if any part is missing, when I get my hand back? Truly, how can there be a Greek-Turkish friendship when I turn my back to keep an eye on me not eating a back knife. These, as I mentioned, our Turkish friends. Moral authors and orchestras of all this story. Our "friends" of the Germans, our "friends" of the French, our "friends" of the English. It is not, Minister, as you mentioned before and there is no racism. Incentives and then today are exactly the same. The motives and then today is the economy, it's the money. The war, then, and nowadays it's just the same thing. For Mosul oil and the waters of Tiger and Euphrates. These, to restore the truth. Greek-Turkish friendship. We've grown most of us being of mouse origin with stories of goblin. "Kalomana" in podian, for those who don't know, is Grandma. My grandma from Kerashunta, Grandpa from Kars. You know, especially at winter nights, we wanted to hear fairy tales. We considered them to be fairy tales, but the moments were sacred, because we learned history. We were little. Growing up, we realized that we lived the story through the narratives of gossip. We grew up with these stories. What did these stories tell us? They were talking to us about the Black Sea. When we talked about the gospel and told her "say a grandmother about the Black Sea", she corrected us and told us that "it was not a Black Sea, it was an Intangible Point". Just, in the culture of the Pontius - because we want and we like it, because we are really people with culture and culture - we wanted to delight the Black Sea, when it was inflatable, by an Intangible we named him in the Black Sea. So, Grandma's stories, what were they telling us? I will tell you in the mouse and I would like those who know how to make a translation: 'Woe in common' I am. One single pain of tears and death: all we saw was pain, tears and death. Greek-Turkish friendship with them, then, never anywhere. Historically, if we sit down and refer, there are plenty of books, photos and accounts from Pontius philosophers, by Pontius professors. I think it's a huge piece. We could talk all day just about the Moles genocide. But I would also like to make a point here to the Minister of Education not to harm the history books in relation to the reference to the Pontius Genocide. Leave history alone, Minister, because it is a crime that you are trying to do once again, because oblivion against the Genocide of the Pontius is a second continuing genocide. We should also not forget the period during which some 1937-1949 were reported. It is a period of ethnic cleansing of Pontian Hellenism in the then Soviet Union. In 1934 we do not forget that the "national ruler" had proposed the slaughterer of the Greeks of the Pontus, Kemal Ataturk, for Nobel peace. So the struggle for everyday recognition will be continuous, with respect for the sacred memory of the victims and with pride in our origin. If I may be allowed to paraphrase what has been said before: Romania, if it has taken action, to bloom and bring more, it wants a national government.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and operated, nineteen students and students and two educational attendants from the Municipal School of Megaron. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition by the Chamber of the "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way in which this House is organised and operated, ten German Competition Committee executives. The House welcomes them. Mr Ioannis Amanatidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we have had ninety-eight years since 19 May 1919. It is the day when the plan for the final extermination of the Greeks was put into effect throughout Pontus, in an endless course of death, an Auschwitz in flow, as Professor Polychronis Enecides says. By 1924 the land of Pontus had become the theater of a wild beast. Eight hundred and fifteen villages were excavated, a thousand hundred and thirty-four churches were destroyed, nine hundred sixty schools were demolished, three hundred and fifty-three Ponts were destroyed, and more than four hundred thousand uprooted people arrived in Greece, leaving behind a culture of three millenniums, ancestors, churches, graves and schools with unique luggage the memories and pain of their hearts. "The mind went forth. Evil, and I've seen the octopus and the grass. I'm out of here and I'm out of here, and I'm out of here. The tears were torn apart and the heart of many bloods." It is from the testimony of a Pontus refugee: “My mind went to go, I leaned down and kissed the soil and the grass. I'm up, I'm out and I'm out, and I never looked again. My tears are dry, and my heart is bruised.” Ladies and gentlemen, the arrival of the Pontians in the new homelands was the beginning of a difficult but creative beginning for Pontian Hellenism. They settled mainly in the Prefectures of Dramas, Kilkis, Kavala, Xanthi, Kozani, Prevezas and in the urban centers of Athens, Piraeus, Thessaloniki. There a struggle for survival began, while trying to maintain Pontian Hellenism, music, language, customs and traditions. The first years of their lives in the new homeland were certainly not the most pleasant. This massive arrival of thousands of refugees has caused a strong shock, and is initially treated with distrust. They come to the point that their very Greekity is questioned and the Pontius say what it says and the song: "Father I am afflicted in an infinite curse. As a foreigner I am a Greek and a Greek foreigner." [[Applause]] In spite of the difficulties, however, the Pontius with the labour, the will, the power of their soul succeeded with the time to join the Greek society and contribute to the growth and progress of Greece at an economic, cultural and social level. With the introduction of new crops, the implementation of new techniques, the situation has been completely overturned. Ten years after the agricultural land had increased by 55% and the agricultural income had doubled. In the field of craft and industry, the supply of refugees was beneficial. New industries developed: silk, ceramics, copper, carpeting, silversmith, tanning, and many new industries were founded between 1923 and 1930. The country's foreign trade doubled. But the contribution to the spiritual field was also enormous. Scientists, intellectuals, spiritual people from Pondos glowed the field of Greek letters. Ladies and gentlemen, genocide means methodical extermination, in whole or in part, of a national, racial or religious group. This is a primary crime, which has nothing to do with warfare. The genocide doesn't kill a team for something he did, but for something he is. In the case of the Greeks of the Pontou, the Greeks of Asia Minor, the Cappadocs, the Hellenism of the East, because they were Greeks and Christians. While the Jewish genocide by the Nazi leadership was not only directly recognized by the international community, but Chancellor Villa Brad himself kneeled into the field of the testimony of the Jewish Holocaust, the recognition of the Pontius Genocide progressed slowly in the first time, while at one time incontroverting steps and late. Only in recent years have there been significant progress in developing a global consciousness about the Genocide of the Greeks of the East. As you know, our Parliament unanimously established on 19 May as the "Memory Day for the Genocide of the Greeks on the Asia Minor Pontou". This recognition, despite the seventy-year delay, morally justified Pontian Hellenism and linked modern Hellenism to his historic memory. Cyprus, Sweden, Armenia, the Netherlands, many states of the United States and Australia have recognized it. Of course, as previous speakers have said, it is the resolution of the International Academy of Genocide Study, which was voted by a vast majority of 83% of its members. But the images of uprooting and violence have not disappeared from modern reality. The Orthodox Christian - and not only, of course - needs our help and attention in war conflict areas. Our country can be proud of the compassion and altruism that continues to demonstrate in support of the association of modern Greeks with their historical memory. Our history, the history of Hellenism, is first of all a history of survival and discernment, of offering and of responsibility, but also of boldness and of national unity towards the dangers and challenges. Ladies and gentlemen, 19 May gives rise, in particular to us Pontius, to rescind memories and to consider our debt to the victims of genocide, our relatives and modern Pontius. We must know and honor our history. We must continue together to fight for the survival of historical memory, but free from feelings of prejudice and intolerance, against those responsible for genocide. [[Applause]] Last year, I wondered about this step: Can there be more steps? Steps have been taken. The first step was - and let me say it - the announcement at the site that was given to the Municipality of Paul Mela, along with the Museum of National Resistance, a museum dedicated to Pontikos and Asia Minor Hellenism. Second, what can still be done? To make the Odyssey of Pontian Hellenism more known to young people about how the Pontians kept the ancient lamp of Hellenism opacifying it with the oil of the Pontian Games, about how they maintained the customs, traditions and about how the Pontians had and have self-sacrifice in our blood. At this point - and since there is the overall perception of all genocide in the 20th century - I would suggest that if the Ministry of Education can seriously see a dossier with the 20th-century genocide and the Armenians. Just as we say about the Holocaust and there is a lesson and activities for it, beyond the activities and speeches that are being held in schools for genocide, there can be a back-up dossier for all of this and our children in a more organised way can be taught. Thirdly, promoting the demands of the Pontian Movement, ladies and gentlemen, requires unity. I regret today and the other days I saw that the Pontian federations were unable to make a joint event. I wish - and I will work in this area too, and we will all work - in the hundred years, after two years, all the Pontius together to have an event. [[Applause]] They do not help, of course, positions here, which have rightly mentioned the WTO, quite rightly mentioned the World Council of Pontian Hellenism, but you cannot forget the PDO as well, you cannot forget the PDO as well. They need steps of unity. In these steps, we must all contribute. That's our power, anyway. The Pontius are united.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u17	We're not.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u18	You may disagree, Minister, but my assessment is that we are united, because we have the common language, we have the common traditions, we have the common religion, and we have all that we have been through and our ancestors have passed since. And we need to unite.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u19	And that's what we're closing down, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u20	The difficult task of ending the non-acceptance of historical truth by the neighbouring country, by Turkey, which should undoubtedly be reconciled with forgiveness, should be undertaken by societies themselves, in direct fertile and constructive dialogue, so that such an honest approach can rule out the possibility of such appalling acts being repeated. I'm ending up, ladies and gentlemen, with two clues. This dialogue on the recognition of the Genocide of the Pontius, together with the recognition and eradication of the taboo for Pontian Genocide, will contribute to the dawn of a new era. As Kostis Palamas wrote a hundred years ago: “Place is our land for trekking all. Thank you to the man whose hand lifted first, not for fear, but for the adversary hand to tighten up!” Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to close by borrowing a dialogue from the book of Mr. Kalapouzos "Serra - The soul of the Pontou". He has a dialogue and one says "I choose people regardless of race" and the other answers, asking: "When one puts one above all that way of thinking, is it not enforced and does not scratch wounds with what happened?" Must it be blurred in front?’ And the answer comes: "Look ahead when you don't forget where you come from. According to the new serotypes, those years of genocide of the Greeks of the Pontus and the Armenians before and in other Assyrian places. They are crimes against humanity and must be recorded as historical truth. If you're disgusting these things with a view to raising hate, it's better not to hear your voice. Put her in a muffin. On the contrary, you must not silence if you are struggling to make the evils appear so that they do not happen again." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u21	Mr. Delis of the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, my dear guests, the brutal and barbaric uprooting of the Greeks of the Pontou and other minorities from the Black Sea regions a century ago is not fully interpreted unless it comes into its historical, political and social context, unless the historical background of that period is lit up. The Pontian Hellenism then found itself in the vortex and lived on its verge the consequences of the formation, the development of the national urban states, such as the southern Slavs in the Balkans and more specifically the Armenians, the Arabs, the Turks, especially in the Near East. In fact, all this, in the context of the chronic decomposition of the Ottoman Empire, which was then, of course, under the constant and immediate intervention of the strong capitalist states of Europe. Within this historical, geographical context and more specifically in the violent process of nation-state formation from the Turkish bourgeoisie class, there were direct, destructive consequences and designed persecutions of ethnic minorities, including of course the Greek Pontian minority, as well as the other populations of Thrace and Asia Minor. But the consequences were not the same for everyone. The persecutions and sufferings were mainly suffered by peoples, poorness, as they were used without interpretation for other purposes. The Greeks of Pontou did not have the Turkishs in general and abstractly, but before all the Turkish bourgeoisie, which, with the general blood flow, sought to displace the Greek capital for it. Instead, however, they had - and if it did not appear so clearly - and the Greek bourgeoisie, which used Greek and other populations in Pontto as a diversion and as a means of pressure for its own competitive interests, literally leaving them at the last critical moment in their luck. These competitions of the urban classes, the Greek and Turkish, continue today in a new natural context. They even become involved in the wider competitions of the major imperialist forces, fuelling Turkish aggression with NATO coverage, but also the effort of the Greek bourgeoisie for its famous geostrategic upgrading in the Southeast Mediterranean region. So let the Greek people and all the neighbouring people be vigilant. The result of the policies and competitions of these urban classes in both countries is well known at that time. Hundreds of thousands of people were lost and about one and a half million souls took the way of refugee. The Pontius who were finally repatriated were established by the Greek authorities mainly in areas of northern Greece, which in many areas proved economically inappropriate to maintain them, since the criteria for their establishment were not humanitarian but political. The consequences of the way urban governments handled then left the refugee masses behind years of problems, many of which continue until today. The refugee rehabilitation has been a long divisional process, which for many refugees would have lasted even a decade after they arrived in Greece. They also contributed to this the constant movements of refugees, especially in the early years, in order to find a suitable place for their establishment. The economic situation of the refugee masses and their living conditions have been disastrous, while the attacks against them have not only been verbal, as in many cases they have even taken the form of natural violence by so-called patriots and nationalists at that time. This is why it is historically unparalleled and challenged by the same ideological political space today to try to vote for the genuine feelings of Pontian Hellenism. The Communists at the KKE also gave a titanic battle, denounced the false separatist lines that the urban world wanted to impose between refugees and local workers, to his logic "divide and reign". So Pontian Hellenism has lived on the refugee side and has learned what to say to move into war zones, what impoverishment, disease, racism. The Communist Party of Greece has all these years supported every fair claim of the organized Pontian movement, as well as all the people's claims against the choices of the government and the European Union. We are standing on the side of the thousands of expatriates who, after the dissolution of the Soviet Union and the capitalist rehabilitation, settled in our country and continue after so many years to face serious rehabilitation problems. We believe that the cultural and spiritual activity of the Pontians of all generations should be demonstrated and supported by the Greek state. The use of historical memory by the people must lead to the revealing of nationalist rhetoric, neutralizing the poison of nationalist hatred. Finally, we again state that we remain firmly on the side of the Pontian organizations and clubs and support everywhere the efforts they are making for the international recognition of the Genocide of Pontian Hellenism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u23	Mr. Lazarides has the floor from the Independent Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to welcome the invited Greeks and foreigners, as well as the representatives, the compatriots, of the Polish institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin today's position on this important day for all of us of the Pontius, from the characteristic testimonies of two Pontian women, who give the signal of all the irrationalism and the unprecedented for the historically, appalling energy of the uproot. I'll tell you in the modern Greek, because if I say it in the mouse, I charge very emotionally.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u25	You'll have to say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u26	We won't have time, Minister. Virrea Poiridou from Cachikioi, a region of Banking, says: "One root, what can I say to you! When we started from home to leave for Greece, so much I lost them, I didn't think of getting anything! Only the image was I told to get the Holy Residues to protect us on the streets. And that's what we came here in Greece. And what we pulled isn't said! What suffering, what poverty, what suffering! God only knows them!..." It is this, Minister, that we said one day at the Holy Samela in the Church, which I told you that my grandfather had told then, Pope Savvas, that "we were doing my picture and my defects with us, what we were no longer able to do."
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u27	Those who know ancient Greek understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u28	That's what Pope Savvas said. You're right, my Minister, but we're emotionally loaded by Pontius, because they're coming to our minds, you know. They're all live memories. I'm on it. Sunday Seitanidou - Avramidou notes: "The time I was going to class to school, they burned our villages! 1913 or 1914! It was Topal Osman! Turkish soldiers came with guns and machine guns and killed without distinguishing men, women or children! My father said, who knows how much torment we're tormented again... We left with a sack on the shoulder. All I remember is every day and my eyes are always buried!..." This little report reveals everything. We cannot, however, be content only with touching descriptions, as long as not all those who have experienced the tragic events and as long as we, their offspring, every day we listen to the neighbors from across the street, from the most official lips of their leadership, have been provoking us. We need, on the one hand, to keep the historical memory of the whole of this tragic process. On the other hand, however, we must be ready at any time for any challenge that we even face today. We must have a full cool plan to deal with any malicious action against us as a nation and as a state, so that we can respond in the most effective way. And we have it. The Armed Forces are always alert to prevent any attacker. On the other hand, the entire Greek people support and inspire both the militant youth and institutions that contribute to peace, such as volunteers offering services. And I refer to the Samaritan rescuers, the Red Cross, but also to the great and important work of our Church. The genocide refers to massacres and displacement against Greek populations carried out by the New Turks movement during the period 1914-1923. The recorded victims are three hundred and fifty-three thousand. But here, you will allow me a parentheses. Amazing Professor Polychronis Enecidis in discussions we had on Thessaloniki when he did his research, said that from the evidence he collected from the Austrian, German foreign ministries, etc., he concludes that the number of the dead should be up to four hundred thousand. Officially, however, they are recorded three hundred and fifty - three thousand. This means, ladies and gentlemen, that each of us Pontius has left at least one dead behind. And that explains why from our grandparents and from our mothers we learned from Pontius in the iconostasis, which we have in our home, that we always have the candide on before the images. It's a cunt lit in memory of all those who left behind us. The fewer survivors fled after the 1922 Asia Minor Destruction in Greece. All of this was experienced by the Greeks of Pontou. The Genocide of the Greeks of Pontou is considered part of the unified genocide of the Hellenism of the East, which was one of the first modern genocides. It is the deliberate and systematic extermination of the Greek populations of East Thrace and Asia Minor, Ionia, Capodokia, Pontou, Bithynia. It was a premeditated crime that the New Turks government carried out systematically. The methods he has used were the uprooting, exhaustion of hardships, torture, hunger and thirst and death camps in the desert. The one who provokes genocide doesn't exterminate a team for something he did, but for something he is. In the case of the Greeks of the Pontou were exterminated because they were Christians and Greeks. The mass persecution movement started in Pontto in the form of deportations in 1915. The deportations continued uninterruptedly and at a time when the Russian troops entered the Bank in early 1916. In 1915 it was a landmark for the Pontian Hellenism of Asia Minor. In that year and while all European nations were involved in World War I, the Turks drew up and implemented the plan to eliminate the Christian populations of Asia Minor. In June the first violence against the Pontian element began. The Pontius, however, believed that the end of World War I would bring the definitive end to their suffering, but were denied. Their calls for them to be included in the Greek state were not heard by Eleftherios Venizelos, who considered that Pontus was far away from the other Greek regions, thus being impossible to defend him from the Turkish raids. In return, it proposed that the Pontius should proceed with the creation of a federation with the Armenians, and indeed Archbishop Chrysanthos Philippidis, a very important personality, and Armenian President Alexandros Hatisian signed an agreement in January 1920 on the creation of a Pontonic State. However, in November 1920 the Armenian army was defeated in Erzerum by Kemal's forces, resulting in the Armenians recognizing and staying the Pontius alone. Since August 1922, Kemal has cleared the secondary fronts in Asia Minor undisturbed to the gradual extermination of Pontian Hellenism. The towns and villages were burnt, the villagers were slaughtered, dishonest, exiled or grouped out in the forests and mountains. Those who were arrested were promoted in Asia Minor. The fate of Pontou's crusading monks was a tragedy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] From the catastrophic hate of the New Turks and blind Islamic fanaticism, neither did the monasteries, which for centuries had been respected by the Sultans and local interbeids and pasades, often granting many of them material and religious privileges. I would like to speed up my position, because I see that time is up, Mr President. The monasteries that have always been asylum from the persecuted Christians are subjected to indiscriminate attacks on the part of the Turkish jets. "Dini was the fate of the Crucifixional Monastery of Sumella. On 19 April 1916 the fathers of this sanctity, plundered and threatened repeatedly by death on the part of the Turks, left the Monastery at night." "The mind of man rests," wrote Metropolitan Rodopolitan Cyrilus, "by the acts of atrocity and the number of the victims of a thousand fourscore seven souls, because they find relentless death in the mountains, the caves and the holes of the earth, where they have hidden the sword of the slaughterers." It's a shocking description. What the sultan failed in five centuries, Kemal did it in five years! Responding to the oppression of the Turks, the murders, exiles and fires of their villages, the Greek-Polands, like the Armenians, climbed insurgents in the mountains to salvage everything possible. After the Armenian genocide, in 1915, the Turkish nationalists, under Mustafa Kemal, now had the whole field open to exterminate the Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u29	Please, Mr. Colleague, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u30	I will end in a minute, Mr President. A selective part of Hellenism lived in the north of Asia Minor, in the region of Pontou, after the collapse of the Byzantine Empire. Their economic recovery was combined with their demographic and spiritual rise. In 1860 there were a hundred schools in Pontto, while in 1919 they were counted in a thousand four hundred one, among them the famous Watch Tower of the Bank. The Lighthouse of the East was called the Bank's Treasury. In addition to schools, he had printers, magazines, newspapers, clubs, theatres, etc., highlighting their high spiritual level. At the same time, the Greeks of Pontou, involved in agricultural production and livestock farming in the primary sector, were pioneers for their time in organic farming, as we call them today.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u31	You're clear, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u32	I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. In conclusion, it is clear that the better we know yesterday, the better we understand today. So, the faster and stable we walk on tomorrow. I would like to close with the phrase by which Pope - Savvas Lazarides, my grandfather - "Hey, and I'm never going to go over anything." So I'm closing my sentence with 'Cammyan and we're retracting'. Thank you very much. I would also like to testify for the Practical and Pontian Vulture "Romania was taken, Romania rose and bears more". Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u33	Well, Pope Savvas would be a little more lacquer! Mr. Saridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, honourable guests, friends and friends, three hundred and fifty-three Greek souls of the Sea! What a pain the Greek has passed! What a pain this country is hiding! How much blood has fallen, he's watered these soils! Before I swore a Member and before I took the responsibility of participating in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and National Defence, I already considered it very important that those of us who are from Pontus such days of May, such days as today to explain to our children what happened to Pontus, what happened to the Greeks of Pontus, from whom and why. Today, with the experience and knowledge offered by this Seed, the Parliamentary Chair, better understanding the threat of Turkish reform, I know that it is vital for the survival of the Greek nation to learn what the new generations of Greeks have to expect from the Turks if they are given the opportunity. The size of the organization, but also the complexity of the planning and execution of the genocide of the Greeks of the Pontou, proves that the crimes committed were made by the entire Turkish state and not only by a man. Turks as a nation have attempted many ethnic cleansing and many genocide. They continue these behaviors even today with the Kurds. As a nation led by Kemal, tens of thousands of Greeks were slaughtered. They had no moral or cultural barriers at that time, and today they have no moral or cultural barriers. They had no conscience or humanity. Today's memory day is very important, mainly because it gives us the opportunity to think and wonder what the word "Pontios" means for modern Hellenism, what it means to have origin from Pontto. How many of the souls of Hellenism have those escaped from Turkish barbarism? Personally, I believe that coming from Ponto is a rare honor for every Greek and at the same time proof that Hellenism is not easy to lose in the oblivion of history. It is all our responsibility to continue our children to learn what happened during the Genocide of the Greeks of the Pontou. It is our obligation that we never forget who Mustafa Kemal Ataturk was referring to, when in August 1923 he went by the step of the Turkish National Assembly: "We finally threw them out." The Pontian genocide and the lessons that each Greek can learn from the history of Pontian Hellenism follow me in my everyday life and advise me in my decisions. I still have in my ears the words of my uncle, the younger than the family: “Your grandfather took me like a bigger one. I'm a kid and he didn't leave me. Days and nights, we were walking. His legs were bleeding. It hurt, but it didn't make a puncture." "We left our house," I said, "we left our house." "Our house is in our hearts", he answered, "and there it will remain." "There is our home. Be proud of your grandfather," he said, "for your origin". "I am," I answered. It is our responsibility not to forget. It is our responsibility for younger people to know. It is our responsibility not to stop the struggle until an apology is heard from the same step that Kemal admitted his crime against Pontian Hellenism. Admit the apology for what has been done. Pontus lives, he's inside of us, he's in our blood. It's the legacy we leave to our children. It's the air we breathe. Remembrance of the victims of the Renaissance of the Greeks of the Pontus! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u35	Last but not least, Mr Spyridon Dannelis from Potami.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, selective guests, every day of historical memory, such as today, must be an opportunity to reflect on the course for national self-awareness, a process necessary to avoid such painful situations in the present or future. This, of course, presupposes reading history without the deformative lenses of feasibility, depending on the context. There is, moreover, not a single nation that is not interested in building convenient historical myths, myths that either exaggerate its positive historical role, either magnify the negative role of his or her historic enemies, or disappear from their own map non-attractive neighbors. And unfortunately, in this context, we all know that modern Greek reality finds corresponding examples. The Pontius genocide, however, does not belong to the circle of Greek historical novels. The footprint of this wound is evident in the refugee memory, because the destruction of this section of Hellenism really happened, with incalculable consequences for hundreds of thousands of Pontians, who, through incredible adventures, arrived directly or through the Soviet Union in the new homelands. And in this sad "Odyssey", the counting of the victims in absolute numbers is absolutely irrelevant. What matters, however, what we all have to work out of state logic or investment in self-interested anger is the request for the recognition of a often devastated crime. We must be the voice of those who cannot speak. And if it is worth recognizing this day, as a day of memory of the Genocide of the Greek Pontians by our own Parliament, it is because it promotes the deterrence of other similar crimes in humanity. I could not put it better than our American colleagues, who in the motion for a resolution on the Armenian Genocide, recognised that the decision of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the United States House of Representatives was a victory of historical truth over politics and interests, while noting that 'the inability of national and international authorities to punish those responsible for the Armenian genocide has been one of the reasons why dozens of other genocide have since been committed'. And in this context, slowly, both the spiritual elites and the political system of Turkey must be reversed and recognised the reality of the genocide which has been committed without denying them. It would be a genuine act of courage to recognise crimes, and that is an essential prerequisite for building true friendship and cooperation between the two peoples. Moreover, the examples of other peoples who have committed such crimes show the way. But history is also the little personal stories of each of us. It is the narration of the grandparents, the song of the grandparents, the dances at our festivals, our special cuisine, all that constitutes our local culture. They recommend the collective memory we must keep alive. I cannot, at this point, resist the temptation to personal differences. The Pontius Diversity with such a coherent identity, which four generations after the uproot still hold so strong in the ends of the world, I met her when I became Pontius out of stress, entering their wider family. Ladies and gentlemen, today the memories of lost homes are not justified by the dangerous and extremely promoted illusion of their revocation. They are entitled to recognize the sacrifices, the horrors of inhuman persecution and the recognition of the methodology of genocide as indelible moments in the development of human culture. For me the definition of home is that "home is where your heart is", that your place, your home, your home is where your heart is. Hunted Pontius and Pontius, coming here, admittedly found in a hostile area, despite their coming to Greece. Nevertheless, they resurrected their lives, their households, labored as few as professionally, academicly, socially and economically, felt native to their new homelands, but never separate the faith that was preying on them and oppressing them. They continue to keep alive not only the memories and narrations but also the particular elements of their culture, offering invaluable wealth to Greek culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask that we keep a minute of silence in memory of the victims of the Pontian Genocide. [[At this point Members stand there is one minute silence in memory of the victims of the Pontian Genocide]] Their memory is eternity! [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the special session for the Memorandum of Remembrance of the Greeks of the Pontou has been completed. I would ask the Secretary-General here to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House the topical and urgent question issue of Monday 22 May 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question by MP Drama of New Democracy Mr Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Health regarding the establishment of an Oncological Clinical Clinic at the General Hospital of Drama. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 826/9-5-2017 of the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Deputy Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Finance, concerning measures to strengthen the economy of the Dodecanese. 3. The Question No 842/16-5-2017 by MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Stavros Tassos to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the serious problems of cleaning up at the premises of the Central Greek TEI in Psachna Evia. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 838/15-2017 topical question by MP Magnesia of New Democracy, Christou Boukorou, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the fight against undeclared work. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the arbitrary and illegal treatment of candidates Partners of Educational Personnel (EPC) in the notices of the Greek Open University (EPC). 3. The Question No 807/8-5-2017 by MP Lassithi of New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Plackotakis to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy on the complete weakening of the Greek register. 4. The question asked by MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Stavros Tassos to the Minister of the Interior about the cleaning of the Tsiknia, Mylopotamou and Gagadelis rivers in Lesvos. 5. The Question No 808/8-5-2017 by MP Athens, New Democracy, Anna - Michel Asmakopoulou to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the television signal in remote areas. 6. The Question No 825/9-5-2017 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Health, on the cancellation of the certificates of people with chronic illnesses from the Centres for Disability Certification (KEPA). 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question by number 723/11-4-2017 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Sakis Vardalis, on the loss of life due to the tragic shortages in emergency medicine in the Regional Unit of Halkidiki. 8. The timely question by MP Pella of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Ioannis Sahinides to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity about the "fast increase in unemployment in Kastoria on the Government of SYRIZA". 9. The question asked by MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Manatis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the activation of the decision on the pilot study of the Argos' Zone of Economic Control (ZOE). 10. The Question by Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos to the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the support and upgrading of the TEI Messologist. 11. The Question No 504/20-2-2017 by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about "the fulfilment of the nation's battalion". 12. The Question No 602/14-3-2017 by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the licenses of assistant teachers. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Elias of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, entitled "to shed plenty of light on the works and days of Mr. Kalogritsa with his funding from the "Attica Bank" and to take up roadworks of the Patras - Pyrgos section." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Manniatis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport about economic suffocation in Public Urban Transport. 3. The question asked by MP Attica of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday (Eves) Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Health about the "discrimination of the Ministry of Health for the Zakynthos Hospital".
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We begin the discussion with the third under number 3614/21-2-2017 question of the cycle of petitions and questions by the Independent MP II of Athens Mr.Theocharis Theocharis to the Minister of Health, on the high rates of inappropriate medical Cesarean departments. Mr. Theochari, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u40	Thank you very much, Mr President, and Mr Minister, for having been kind enough to come and discuss this question. I am returning to an unanswered question, and that is why I am making it timely, on the issue of the high percentages of inappropriate medical Cesarean crossings that are taking place in our country. In particular, according to a report by the UN Commission, the percentages of Cesarean crosses in Greece without medical justification are close to 40% in public and 65% in private nursing establishments, overcoming the 15% considered by the World Health Organization as capable of meeting medical needs. In accordance with the conclusions of the committee year 2013, the Greek A delegation was required to prepare its eighth regular report in March 2017, taking into account the measures taken to reduce abusive Cesareans. Also, the official evidence of the EEA is revealing. In 2015, of the thirty-six thousand four hundred forty-fifths of childbirths in public and private maternity care, 58% took place in a caesarean section and respectively in the first nine months of 2016 in forty-one thousand six births the twenty-three thousand six hundred and two were carried out with a cesarean section again about 58%. It is noteworthy that the cost of the Cesarean section for the Treasury is twice as high. A thousand thousand euros in the public hospital, compared to 600 euros in normal delivery. So I ask: What measures taken by the Ministry to reduce the abusive and quasi-sacrificial cuts, in line with the recommendations of the 2013 UN Commission on Discrimination against Women? Do you intend to publish on a regular basis the statistics on both Cesarean and natural births at national level and by geographical area, so that objective recording and evaluation can be carried out? What provision for monitoring, training or retraining of personnel if specific areas or clinics show an increased rate of non-medically appropriate cesarean segments? Finally, what is planning for either the issue of a relevant circular or legislation which makes medical justification compulsory prior to the conduct of the Caesarean section? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u41	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u42	Dear colleague, thank you for the question. The truth is that we have discussed twice in plenary this very recently, and Mr Dimitras and Mr Megalo-Economist, precisely on the same subject. But I think it is worth discussing and looking for ways of changing policy and, above all, changing in practice and from the point of view of health professionals, cultures, that is, and from the point of view of women. It is a very worrying phenomenon, as you rightly point out. These percentages were recorded, and a recent survey by the World Health Organisation, which took place in our country in cooperation with the Ministry of Health, has shown them. There is a very good and documented report, which shows, in fact, that this percentage and it exposes our country and exposes the scientific community of our country and exposes women to the increased risk of a surgical operation and, of course, burdens the health system with services that may not be medically imposed and have greater economic costs. So the fact that we need to find a framework for interventions and changes that will alter the current situation, I think it is self-proof. The intervention to be taken is, I think, focused on some key areas. The first is that there must be a system of very good documentation and implementation of specific therapeutic protocols. The Scientific Society of Mafia - Gynecologists has issued such a framework of guidelines, it has been approved by the CNS and an effort is being made at this time to make all the gynaecological clinics in the country, whether public or private, so that at least it is clear the framework and gynecologists that, in compliance with these guidelines, they can carry out normal delivery with safety and can convince women that there is no reason for them to resort to one, in their view and in the commonly established view, easier choice as the choice of caesarean section. The first issue, then, is the question of protocols. The issue, obviously, of education is very important both for medical staff and paramedical staff, for midwives, for upgrading the role of midwives. We believe that it will play a very important role in strengthening the presence of midwife in particular in primary care, prenatal monitoring of pregnant women, etc. and may enhance the decision, select normal delivery as a safe development in the pregnancy process. So the question of informing society and especially young girls, women of age for childbirth, is very important. The question of compulsory justification on the part of obstetricians - gynecologists for every Cesarean section of justification on the basis of specific medical indications is also very important, and that is what we are now aiming to implement initially in the health system but I think also in the private sector. Of course, the data must also be recorded. We have provided for this in the Ministry of Health Entrepreneurial Intelligence System, which receives the data from hospital information systems and transfers them to the Ministry. There will be a record of the already carried out CIS areas and we will be able to have a good picture of their distribution to the various public structures. Of course, there is a need for an overall effort to be counter-incentive to what seems to be the dominant option today. About 60 percent of women...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u43	Leave something for your dentistry, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u44	I shall conclude, Mr President. So I think there are many reasons - and they have been analysed - to some extent justify the current situation. It is not a question of justifying it but of having a coherent intervention, which is gradually beginning to change behaviour, of changing social culture on this subject and of adapting our country to those which apply to the other countries of Europe. It is half the rate of Cesarean in the countries of the European Union on average. Of course this is far above the limit set by the World Health Organisation, which is 15%. It is 60% and the average in Europe is 25% to 30%. So I think there have been some first steps. From now on it needs consistency and, above all, efforts to cooperate with the scientific community.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u45	Good. Here, Mr. Theochari, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u46	I am pleased, Mr Minister, that first of all I have heard in your reply some of the strategy papers. I have heard the issues of registration, the issues of justification, the issues that I have raised to you in my question. It is obvious that when we have four-fold cesareans, there is an issue of mentality either because gynaecologists want to have control over their working hours, go on an appointment to the childbirth and do not have them whenever they happen or because women who want or are convinced that there is a convenience, in an hour or so can end up in relation to the six to thirty-six hours that a child can spend. So the issues of mentality are, indeed, important. You talked about protocols. You talked about training. You spoke of the midwife, the justification and the recording. I didn't see you talking about timelines. I did not see you talking about actions and actions. I do not understand why we are not moving on to the Burth Centers, as the World Health Organization and the Association of Athens Midwives, the SAMA, who could really change the data and give right advice to women, who do not forget that they are vulnerable to such a situation, have any fear, do not know how to make decisions. That is why proper information is very important. Found even a bit of a bit center. Go to a maternity hospital, in a hospital, build a Birt Center, let's see, indeed, the results start working. The KESY, as you have said, is an advisory body of the Ministry of Health on the structure and operation of the National Health System. It has already issued the directive since 2014 with number 12 in relation to the Cesarean section. I put it in the Minutes for the Greek people to know it. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I am therefore not sure why, from 2014 until today, we cannot implement this ERCF guideline, and why we cannot proceed with a macrocentre perinatal monitoring. There is no possibility today in primary health care for mid-centered surveillance. This has to change. Also, with regard to the progress of the epidemiological database, you told us that it has been provided for in the system's specifications. I have not heard when we will be able to collect this data and, above all, make it publicly available. So this culture of abusive caesarean can only be drastically changed by the Ministry of Health and by you, Minister. That is what we expect to see at least some implementation and not just strategic issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u47	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u48	I agree that from the findings to the change of situation, a very long time has always been involved and a very systematic effort is needed to obtain measurable results. You must recognise that on our own initiative this debate has been opened. In cooperation with the local office of the World Health Organization in Greece and with experts brought from abroad, there was a very systematic recording and analysis of the phenomenon and, above all, there were policy proposals. These policy proposals will gradually try to convince both staff, health professionals, doctors involved in both the public and private sectors, but above all society, women that this is not an easy choice, and that normal delivery can be done safely and with dignity today in both the public hospital and the private clinic, without obviously jeopardising neither the woman nor the newborn nor any problems of defensive medicine. Because one argument made by gynecologists at one time is that in a possible negative event in the course of birth, there are then issues of civil liability, persecution, etc. In this sense, the Cesarean section ‘protects’ such risks. I think, therefore, that there is a need for overall support for the whole framework and for doctors to be convinced that when specific protocols are observed, this choice is safe. Interestingly, in some ERS clinicals that have been maintained as far as possible or, anyway, on the initiative of the administrations and people of the health system, an attempt has been made to comply with these protocols, the rates of Cesarean incisions are statistically much lower than the average. So that will be our effort. We will try to be also an evaluation indicator of the quality of care in public hospitals and, therefore, an evaluation and evaluation of the administrations of hospitals, and it will also be a goal, to have a significant reduction in these rates. Now developing and completing this system of interconnecting the scattered information systems that public hospitals had through Bi with the Ministry. There will be accessibility of these data and an effort will be made to make as much use of them as possible. I don't want to say big words. I think this priority is important. And in the bill that we have come to public consultation on primary health care, we have put on a special article, which specifically refers to the upgrading of the role of midwives, especially in primary health care with the care networks, which we think is slowly going to promote another culture less medical center, which can promote this idea. The idea of bit centers is for discussion and I think we should keep your proposal for a pilot run so that we can see that more specifically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, too. We are aware that they will not be discussed due to the absence of the relevant foreign ministers, the first under number 829/12/2017, the second cycle (A) by MP Florinas of the New Democracy, Mr.Ioannis Antoniadis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the overall and not partial relocation of the community of Achlada Prefecture Florina, as well as the fourth question under number 841/16-5-2017, the first cycle (B) by MP, Athens, the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, on the operation of the Refugee Centre in Lavrio. Immediately now, the fourth row is the 833/15-2017 topical question (A) by F Vice-President of Parliament and MP Larissa of the Communist Party of Greece, George Lambroulis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, concerning the extension of the submission of statements to farmers who were damaged by the glacier in the Municipality of Agias, Larissa. Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. The question concerns, as you said, Mr President, the problems caused by trees in the Municipality of Agias in Larissa from the glacier during the winter season, resulting in the destruction in some cases of arable land and in some other areas in the municipality of Agias, there have been extensive damage to the fields, etc. While the frost was announced by the ELGA and the farmers were asked to make statements of damage, due to the holidays in Easter and the service failure, it was not possible for all the producers who suffered damage to submit the statement to the ELGA in good time. Thus, on the basis of this development, the producers asked for an extension from the ELGA, so that they would also, of course, submit the statements of damage, but also from there on, the start of the assessment process and, by extension, compensation. It is understandable that there is a risk that producers will be left out of compensation with a possible failure to satisfy the request for an extension of the deadline for the submission of claims for damages, but also, as I said before, that there will be delays in assessment and compensation. The questions to the Minister, Mr President, are whether this extension is actually to be granted to the farmers in the Agias region, in order to accept all the declarations of damage from all producers, but what is the timetable for the process of both the assessment and the compensation to be made. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u52	Mr President, I reply directly to your question, which is essentially about extending the deadline for submitting declarations beyond the 15 days provided for in the relevant regulation. There is a possibility, if there are reasons for force majeure, which of course prove to be evidence of this. But such cases do not exist. What has been examined by the competent authority was to give this opportunity by decision of the Board of Directors of the ELGA. Yesterday he met the Board of Directors of the ELGA and in its decision the delayed extensions of the declarations were accepted. Furthermore, because there are maloproducers, particularly in Agia, who did not make use of the fortnight of extensions, we also give them the opportunity within three working days, starting from today and ending on Tuesday, to come to the branches of ELGA to submit the relevant statements.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u53	Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u54	Minister, it is obviously a positive development as far as what you have just said is concerned, and that was indeed the case. It is not a matter now to disagree on that. The decision of the Board of Directors of ELGA was required in order to allow an extension, etc. I'd like to put a question marker. I do not know whether the three-day period, as you said, is sufficient if I listened well. With what logic? You are announcing farmers coming in in three days. I have a reservation. It is good that we have no reason to admit that - alas - but I ask a question about space. I'm closing this. We insist and I would also like to hear you in your dentistry, because it also comes as a second question about the timetable. There's a design always. The ELGA cannot even know any timetables for both the question of estimates and when they will either be started and possibly completed, on the basis of both the region and the question of compensation. Because the same area that was affected this year, the Municipality of Agias, was also affected last year by the frost, that is, 2016 and not only there, but also Tyrnavos and other potential areas in the country. However, they did not receive compensation and they did not receive compensation - I will explain that - because it was not recognised as an injurious cause of the frost. In other words, the frost has entered the second or third category of loss-making causes based on estimates. Other issues have therefore been assessed. That is why we are insisting on other questions, such as other Members of Parliament, on compensation - and I stress this - which, of course, has to do with farmers' incomes, the concern that the category of farmers in the region of Agias is currently experiencing, but also other farmers working on various crops, about what is happening in the whole of the operation of the ELGA, which concerns not only the estimates, the timely - to say this - a procedure of assessments, but also compensation, on the basis of assessments of 100% of the losses, the total damage, but also all the harm caused by the ELGA, which you know not about. It is an issue that the farmers are also claiming and claiming, what ELGAs they need. We, as a Communist Party, say that they need a state body, with the equivalent staff assigned to scientific staff, if any, which is much more necessary with state funding to compensate farmers. Because, see, it is not the best in this period and you are well aware of it, we all know it in this Chamber, and much more so those who experience it, that farmers especially if you want it, because they are not large farms, they are small lots - to say so - the region of Agia. They are affected by the overall policy, with the taxes, with the carpets they pay. Also, look for ELGA. As far as ELGA is concerned, since 2011, if I'm wrong, since 2012, it has been suspended, it has stopped, so to speak, state funding has been suspended. As far as the part involved in the Fund is concerned, so to speak, in the financing of the ELGA, the state has not given a single euro. Is it or isn't it? Farmers continue to pay, of course. Their contributions have already increased. How will these issues be resolved? [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I'll be brief. We have opened the debate on other topical questions, Minister, since 2015. For example, for ELGA, you said: "We are thinking about adjusting, seeing, changing the regime, changing the regulation, strengthening it, or putting in new harmful causes, which are not now compensated for by the disasters in their production." So there are a number of issues to be raised. Farmers, of course, are desperate about all the economic situation they are experiencing. Look! Loans are running. Obligations run. I don't have to say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u55	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u56	So perhaps the Ministry, the political leadership, the government, will also see such facilitation issues tomorrow, tomorrow, once they are not compensated by the ELGA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u57	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u58	Of course, Mr Colleague, you have found the opportunity to make a more general parliamentary control, both in the functioning of the ELGA and in the problems of rural areas. Your question was specific: extension. Since then, the announcement of the damage concerned has been made by the competent authorities and has resulted in the fact that the area concerned has been damaged by the frost. So within 15 days they had to - and they know - submit the relevant statements. What you and other events have said, which did not allow them to submit the declarations in the specific 15 days, have also taken place. They could, according to the ELGA regulation, another fifteen days later - they knew that, they were told by the assessors - and they submitted the statements. We therefore, with the decision of the Management Board, covered all fifteen days and went further and further, knowing that there are some cases, particularly in Agias, apple growers. Don't tell me now that the Ayia apple growers can't go in two, three days to make their statement. They should go and I think they'll all be covered. Now, from there on, on the payment issues you put, how they get paid and the rest, I'll tell you one thing. ELGA is a fund that operates rewardably. Therefore, those who are insured will receive the corresponding compensation provided, based on the insurance risk. We have speeded up procedures too much. Where previous governments were paying in twelve and thirteen months, we have reached the semester in the seven months. These are a few procedures which, however shortened, must be done and have a certain time. So those who are insured will be paid through this process. Those who are not insured, if they are insured, will see it through a setup within the growing season that we are going through to cover them. Even though they are still not covered by this procedure, all that is left to farmers is the well-known, it is the PSA file that we are compiling in all these cases. It has their time, because it also requires the agreement of the European Commission, but at the same time also the possibility of the state budget covering these amounts. We should have had the time to talk all the time you wanted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u59	Thank you. The third, with number 833-15-2017, top-circuit question (A) by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject of "in the air hundreds of projects of municipalities and regions throughout the country due to the ambiguity of Law 4412/16", will not be discussed due to lack of competence. It is time to discuss the first under number 836/15-2017 a topical question from the Parliamentary Serres of New Democracy Mr. Fotinis Arabatzis, Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the problems of non-smoking fruit trees in areas of northern Greece. Mrs. Arabaji, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as you know, the sharp changes in the weather phenomena in Greece, with the particularly high temperatures in the autumn of 2016 and the particularly low in January 2017, have adversely affected the annual biological cycle of both trees and, of course, winter crops, such as cereals, oilseed rape. In particular, in tree crops, almonds and olives, due to the ice, great problems were caused at the stage between flowering and fruiting, so that producers were faced with an unexplained phenomenon of blooming and blooming at the same time and unformed or rather small-formed fruits and, of course, to find with regret that their production is expected to be dramatically reduced. In winter crops and in rapeseed, unprecedented in many areas of winter anomalism resulted, of course, at the most, in a slow sprout of these grains, a problem which has deteriorated since the extensive drought in April, which has left the plants stunning and prematurely drying. As a result, today's crop image is totally disappointing. For 'black' producers, Minister, say, with 70% losses for both Serres Prefecture and 50% for plants and 50% for cereals. Of course, similarly, there is a dramatic situation in other regions of Greece: Orestiada, Thessaloniki, Halkidiki, of course, Larissa, Itoolokarnania, Grevenna, Evia, making allegiance to the majority of the fields, when it takes 15 euros per acre, the cost of per acre, just 50 kilos per acre. Minister, there are not very few producers who, in their despair, perish their stains. The findings of the ELGA assessors, Minister, so far acknowledge that the damage is not due, of course, to a failure by producers, but are indeed the result of the weather changes that have reversed the normal crop cycle. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] So, given that, because of climate change such adverse effects are becoming more and more dramatically affecting performance or leading to the complete impairment of the entire crop, which are not compensated under the contractual procedure of the ELGA, why are they being observed out-of-risk insurance, I ask, Mr Minister: Will your Ministry establish, in accordance with Article 71 of Law 4235/14, which defines the compensation for incarnations or fruits, this special scientific committee of the Article, in order to substantiate that the injurious effect is due to these particular unfavourable weather conditions in watering, so that the affected people receive legal aid, of course, under the European Union Regulation?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u61	Mrs. Arabatzis, you have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u62	I'm done, Mr. President. You also ask whether you are investigating, in any case, the possibility of another targeted aid from de minimis or other measures to lose income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u63	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u64	My colleague, as you know, the phenomenon of incarnation, that is what we call 'bad fruitage', which may be due to a number of unfavourable weather phenomena, the physiology of the tree, inappropriate fertilization, is a damage which cannot be compensated by the ELGA because it is not part of the ELGA insurance regulation. So, in order to put a risk into the ELGA, you know that a scientific study, a proportionate one, is needed, a committee, a joint decision, procedures which at least at the moment cannot be completed to cover this case. We, because you also mentioned a moment ago that, if we do this committee, etc., we need to clarify one thing, that this committee can be set up, since there has been a prior proportionate study in order to enable this case to be implemented. And you know that until yesterday, the day before yesterday, there was no move in the direction of setting up this committee, so that it could end up. On the other hand, we have already set up a committee which has begun the process of highlighting this proportionate study. So these damages can only be included today in the procedure known as the PESA - they are state aid with the agreement of the European Commission - a procedure which will also be done in this case. Because you have referred to an issue, which is indeed of concern to the European Union and to us, the effects of climate change on such phenomena, I would like to say to you that there has already been a debate on this at the Council of Agriculture Ministers' level on the effects that exist. However, you can understand that until a procedure is completed, which will also result in aid from these damages, the European Union's time to operate such cases is not too fast. It is a necessity at this time for all the countries of the European Union to have such an approach. The rest I shall refer to in my dentext, in particular measure 5.1 to which you refer. You have really tried to do something, but you have hung up a space without finishing a process, but it is absolutely unlikely that it would lead agricultural insurance to the private sector. In my dentistry, I'll tell you more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Arabatzis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you said the fruitfall, the incarnation, is not part of the current ELGA insurance regime. However, you will know, of course, that with Law 4235/2014, Article 71, these were provided for the compensation of producers who suffered these losses of income due to inconsistency, because of climate change, because of all these incidents. As you referred to the proportionate study, I will tell you that according to a reply from the then Deputy Minister for Rural Development, on 25 April 2014, Minister, immediately after the relevant vote on this amendment, I see and read it - I will table it in the Minutes - that by decision of the ELGA then, in April 2014, a tender for the preparation of a proportionate study, including the possibility, etc. And I wonder: Since 2014, with a adopted and ready-made legislative regime, this proportionate study has been in the drawers, so that producers of a financial instrument which would have been in their hands unable to use it? [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Fotini Arabatzis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Also, Minister, I asked you in my prototype, in addition to the possibility of setting up this committee for the acarpest or for the state financial aid which, as you know very well, and if it is still documented, I should, of course, then have the necessary national budget to compensate these people, ask you whether there is any other possibility of compensation for them, for example, de minimis allowances. You didn't answer me. And I ask, Minister, because I am glad to see that on 22-2-2017 you have made a decision on the farmers of Kymi Evia, who have suffered a terrible catastrophe because of the glaciers, amounting to 220,000 euros. For Kymi Evia, which is symptomatic - and I certainly do not mean anything - is your constituency, not a month after your visit and your statements on 19 January, immediately on 22 February you made the decision on 220,000 euros for compensation for these people. And because you mentioned, Minister, to the European Union's debates, I would like to ask you: the Luxembourg Council of Ministers meets next month, given that other Member States are having similar problems - France, Spain, Portugal - on the drought in cereals, I mean. Have you decided to make a coordinated and coordinated effort to claim money from Community funds for the loss of income of these people, for example from the European Solidarity Fund, Minister? As you well know, when there are arguments and with data from the Member States, they give the opportunity to deal with such crises, as has been the case recently. I would remind you - I have asked you on this subject and you have not answered me since April of this year - that on 3 April 2017 the Council of Ministers of the European Union approved the disbursement of EUR 71 million for such disasters, which were suffered by countries such as Great Britain, Cyprus and Portugal and, unfortunately, our country, Minister, is also here outside. I would remind you of the great disasters that have been suffered in my region as well - you had visited it, Minister - from the floods and disasters, and could have operated as a Community financial instrument for relief. So I ask you whether there will be a coordinated effort of yours in Luxembourg on 12 June, in conjunction with the other Member States, which are facing, I repeat, similar problems. Since you have referred to measures 5 and 17, I would like you to tell me what happens when these measures are announced. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u68	Mr President, we cannot say here that in cases of these damages we have at least 30% or more, so that we can include them and you are now telling me to include them in the European Union Solidarity Fund, where they need not only procedures but also, above all, damage, which exceed 3% of GDP. There is no possibility, as you can see, of proving such damage because of the acarpest that took place in this region. But because you did...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u69	All over Greece has cereals, it's not just in this region.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u70	Please. You've had an apology, I'll say it. I don't want to say any more. Last summer, our country's livestock farming was damaged because of the fires throughout Greece. And what did we do? We managed to secure a sum of EUR 220,000 to get the farmers to get feed...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u71	And right, I told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u72	Because they didn't have for their herds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u73	Well done, I told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u74	And you know, of these things, if they went 3,000-4,000-5,000 to five farmers in Evia!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u75	You did very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u76	And you come here now and raise such a major issue. I really don't have anything else to say. I am telling you, moreover, that we are once again preparing to strengthen the farmers who, in winter, passed on to us, had a great deal of destruction, were excluded from herds, had losses. This is not the case in this particular case, with the damage from acarp. Acarpia is a phenomenon that exists in our country in particular. It is not just the specified trees. Olive oil suffers every year, but it is an issue which, of course, we cannot cover from state aid. Do you not know what the country's financial situation is? We all know that. So, you see, we're doing procedures, we're pushing things. And who told you that from this money, which was adopted, we did not get 1,7- that matched us - and we gave it back to the breeders of the Cycladic islands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u77	These were for the crisis of the milk market.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u78	Therefore, do not think that we are missing any process within the European Union. We are simply operating through obligations that result from our participation. There is the common agricultural policy, there are regulations. We can't break them. Even if we had money to give, you forget that the country was invited to pay the packages of Hatzigakis, the packages of cooperatives and all these fines and charges, and we will not be in such a process again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u80	Mr President, please, I would like to speak for a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u81	We're not used to that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u82	For a minute, Mr President, no distorting impressions are given. You said about one - the Minister is leaving, it's okay, I want it to be recorded in the Minutes - apology. I repeat what I said, he rightly did and gave de minimis to the region concerned and use this example as a guide, for similar policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u83	Thank you very much. Here is the second question, under number 846/16-5-2017, from the Independent MEP, Achaias Nikolopoulos, to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on an amendment to a scandal for bankers. Mr Stavros Kontonis will answer the question. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u84	Mr President, I am very pleased that the Minister is here today, although the article was just passed yesterday, which much has been heard in the Chamber, but also outside the Chamber, very serious characterisations from the Association of Prosecutors and also from ordinary citizens. I'm glad, I say, and I thank him. He also honors him and then the process that he is here today. Mr Minister, this does not, of course, relieve you of what may emerge - and I hope it does not result from this - from now on, after the vote. I was lucky to be a member of the board of inquiry. But, above all, I had the luck of being in this Chamber in 1989, in the vote of the Achaias and having tabled a large number of questions, as I do to you, on many issues, Mr President, which may disperse the attention of justice and even of wrongdoing - if you see the one that I have tabled today - which I have put to you many times - the Josaki trial is now being conducted - there are, if I may say, the evil to be limited. Instead of becoming stricter, we came yesterday - I voted only for the countermeasures and the concerns of farmers and the non-tax exemption of Members - to vote for an article that raises very seriously, perhaps legally, issues, Minister. I'm sure you've heard the argument. I am not sure whether you believe in your deepest faith that what the Prime Minister said yesterday from the Step of the House will be served, but again, and a lot of it has been said, that is, what the Greek people want. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] What? Those who have put their hands on honey and especially - listen now - immunity or special treatment for bankers! Oh, God! It says, therefore, that if there were complaints in the extrajudicial compromise, it is an eye to the restructuring. In the committee of inquiry, Mr President, you will recall, we have seen the restructuring of the information pimps which are now being tried. Now, now, now! Because, in terms - which the majority said - no one meets in sea loans, those who have their money outside in the tax havens do not now turn the money back. He says "Ah, no. From now on, we should also ask Mr Stournara. We should ask the Bank of Greece. We will also do one such instrument and another.' Now listen! Why? Because there's, he says, we might have arbitrary persecutions. And who should we protect? The humble? The simple ones? Oh, no. Possibly Mr. Pantalakis. Three times in court, Mr. Pantalakis, but he's chosen by Mr. Stournara and remains Governor of the Bank of Attica. The other day, Mr President, he sold red loans, business loans, the Attica Bank, my Minister, 1 billion 600 million. He sold 100 million and took 8 million 600 thousand. Well, doesn't he give them to us to buy them like that? Our loan? So they're done now. They're doing it for the best, he says. And since they're doing it for the good they can do whatever they want.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u85	Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u86	That's all, Mr. President. I'm not going to embarrass you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr. Nicholas. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u88	So the Minister is a law-abiding lawyer. What does he have to do now? Clear? Oh, no. Give us more explanations. I thank him again, who is here today, but please very much. We may not all be lawyers here, like the speech, Minister. Besides, one may become a MP and may not have finished primary school.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u89	Mr. Nicholas, you're in five minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u90	Wait a minute, Mr. President. I have a reason. Minister, I hope your answer today is not like some of them, which you might not even see. Why, he says, are you asking that? We ask, Minister, why do we think that to pass on to the prosecutor such cases, like today's question, like the other day, that there was, he says, a double bottom, giving the ministers money and the witness named at the Karouso trial...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u91	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u92	I was told 'We are not interfering'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u93	Yes, sir. All right, Mr. Comrade. Your question has been made.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u94	But send it to the DA and tell it. Because he...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u95	Minister, take the floor, because we have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u96	Now I come from the D.A. for Mr. Rando, Minister. Now, ten minutes ago!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u97	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u98	And you didn't answer me. What did the Council of State say?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u99	Mr. Comrade, we're in six minutes. We heard them!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u100	He should have called you, not me. I asked you. But the DA called me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u101	Minister, if you don't start, we won't stop.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u102	I will stay on the question. Questions, which Mr Nikolaopoulos mentioned, regardless of the question, I am at his disposal at any time and at any time to answer. I would also like to thank you for the question you have asked today, because in the narrow context of time, which I had during the debate on the bill that we voted on yesterday, I have certainly given these necessary clarifications, but I think that today the issues can be clarified even more. Mr. Comrade, there is no impunity. You know that our Constitution in Article 20 provides for the procedure for the legal protection of every citizen's right to appeal to justice, adding the words 'as the law defines'. In this phrase, it is also specified in the codes, in particular the Code of Criminal Procedure and in the existing legislation, the procedure for the exercise of criminal prosecution. Too many laws exist, which provide for a prior request from the criminal prosecution authority as what we call the legal 'external term of the criminal'. I will not go into the provisions of the Criminal Code relating to the country's international position. I am referring to three laws, which you are well aware of as an experienced parliamentarian. There is a law which provides that in the case of tax cases there must be an application by the Head of the DU to the competent prosecutor in order to initiate the criminal proceedings. There is legislation, which says that there must be an application by the labour inspector for offences relating to compliance with labour law on the movement of criminal prosecution. There is a law, which also states that there should be a request from the Securities Committee to the prosecutor for criminal prosecution on relevant issues. Therefore, the current legislation has too many such examples. I understand the concern of Members of Parliament for this regulation. First of all, I want to tell you that there is no outlaw here. On the contrary, the position of the public prosecutor is capital and dominant in this regulation. I would also like to tell you that this question of whether, by this provision of the Constitution, it is erroneous or disqualified, it has been working and I imagine it will have been working on the theory for many years, but also the theory and the law-enforcementers have come up with, by a vast majority - not to say by unanimity - that this is the case and that this is not the case with legislative power, about how to legislate on specific categories of offences. The second thing I wanted to say to you, Mr President, is that it is not a question of bankers. It's not about.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u103	Only!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u104	No, it's not about bankers. It refers to civil servants and banks employees involved in the restructuring of red loans. In the law that we voted on yesterday, in this article, the terms and conditions under which a civil servant, a civil servant or a bank official, will be placed before his or her responsibilities if he does not do his duty. In these cases, then, I would like to tell you that we are not counting much or much, that more than three thousand will be the officials involved in the restructuring of red loans. What does the arrangement want to protect? The provision, ladies and gentlemen, does not want to protect the malicious criminal prosecution. There's no malicious criminal prosecution. There's a malicious complaint, though. Because there may be malicious complaints against people who do their job as they should, on the basis of the regulation, the statutes and directives they take, and the slightest danger that people will be in the eye of the cyclone and that they will not only be involved in a procedure which is very unfair and time-consuming on the basis of the situation, but I would say that there is a risk that the whole process of restructuring red loans will collapse in fear of malicious complaints and involved in criminal responsibilities of people who have no responsibility. But what do we say here? This is where we need to balance two things. On the one hand, what I am telling you, on the other hand, is to check what is going on and what has to be done. I would like to point out to you, therefore, that the provision, in particular with regard to the workers of the banks, who will be involved in this procedure, is very strict because it describes the conditions and also states that the request to the prosecutor will be made by a three-member body composed, Mr President, of three batches, judged after an opinion of the Bank of Greece - which does not commit, is simply an opinion - the course of the case. If this Council considers that there are serious issues to be dealt with by the Prosecutor, the procedure will normally proceed towards the exercise of criminal prosecution or criminal investigation at first stage of this procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u105	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u106	I've spent my time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u107	We've spent a lot of time. In your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u108	This process started in June 2016. It was a process which was constantly changing proposals and regulations until we came to the final vote by Parliament yesterday. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u109	Mr. Nicolopoulos, time attention. You're very welcome. The prototypes had to be six minutes and they were ten four minutes. Please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u110	It is obvious, however, that you too realise that those who listen to us are interested in attending this debate and who have fallen their hair. So what did we say about those who didn't hear it yesterday? That we're worried about bankers or bankers, why are they all employees, you know any shareholders in the boards? - It's a pain in the burns. Minister, you know that the former Justice Ministers are now the lawyers of these bankers. Unless you... I don't wish to see it at all, I don't want to see it. I wish I didn't see you there. A thousand times in Zakynthos and Patras you came and you were great. Not there. For years now, the honorable and especially the modernist bloc... and see what pay... You read it, I imagine, you heard. "DOCUMENTO" do you read? So, all of these revelations... Yes, sir. Let Vaxevan say, let the others say. Uh, and what happened? This will be a committee that oversees the prosecutors. "Well, what are you doing there? No, no, leave it." Who asked for it, Mr President? Could the ordinary citizens who want to turn the money back? Bank Board of Directors gave two and a half million to each of the employees and then came up and made a decision and said: "The loan we gave you to buy the shares is deleted because we're doing it to you." Are they gonna sit on the stool? No, poor thing. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, Like the others on the stool now. They will therefore come to the point of your fellowmanship with Article 2 of the Criminal Code that says that if two or more laws apply from the end of the act to its irrevocable decision, the one that contains the most favourable provisions for the defendant. You told me last night that at the end of the day - and indeed at the end - the relatives are being applied, from now on, for restructuring. Now, then, we're going to live this third shower of bankers. It's not for the employees. Do you know how many people have been prosecuted? I asked Mr. Manjuni for coming to the Inquisition. Mr Manjuuni, I say, if anyone is indicted, as you are now indicted, bank manager in Zakynthos - did you have a Piraeus Bank employee over there - would he stay until he reach the Arele Ice court or leave on the same day? The same day! The head of donations? The manager, who said charges were filed? He's leaving the same day. They're staying there grounded. And you know it! You know them all, it's a small place. They saved us on the first recapitalisation, saved us on the second, saved us on the third, and now it's the fourth yuroussi, where we will read that they called for the MEGA loans, for the loans of the other one, and they said "give them EUR 8 per 100 euros". On the road that Pantalakis opened. I'm afraid that's what this is about, Minister. And the information that has been written says that they pressed and pressed together by foreign lenders. Because foreign lenders get what they're getting. It's not free here for the sun and the sea.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u111	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-six students and students and five educational attendants from the 6th School of Nafpaktos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has the floor, Mr Stavros Kontonis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr President. I will respond in detail to what Mr Nicholas said. I'm not used to point out, Mr. Nicolopole, in this Chamber, but because you made a report...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u113	We'll see about you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u114	Thank you. I want to tell you that even when I was a new lawyer, and I needed to work, I never chose, while there had been opportunities in my place, Zakynthos, to be a bank lawyer. Therefore, things that I have avoided in my youth will not be done now, without that meaning that fellow lawyers who perform their duties well, do badly, I just couldn't do that. I didn't. Therefore, do not worry, nor in the past have I done so in the future - much more, even taking advantage of my current position - I am going to do that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u115	You saw that the Vice-President of the Competition Committee, while forbidden, has already taken up sixty customers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u116	Well, I would like to tell you that this provision that we have voted on has passed too many amendments. Two of them - to which I, in fact, was directly involved - were not having any retroactive effect. And as you know, procedural provisions cannot have retroactive effect. Therefore, previous cases to which you referred do not fall under this law as it explicitly states that this law does not have retroactive effect. I put it to you last night and I was glad to hear that you mentioned it too. So do not make reference to previous restructurings, because the process before us is the restructuring of the red loans and not the way in which restructuring was carried out by the administrations themselves of the maritime loans banks which they themselves gave, and which the previous government, if you remember well, with an amendment of three Members, who have not been re-elected, had put them in the unavoidable position with regard to criminal responsibilities. There is no connection between this provision and this issue. You would also see in the law that there is a responsibility here for those who do not do the legal, that is, while they should be subject to criminal prosecution, not to do so. There will be direct responsibility without mediation. Immediately, that is to say, the prosecutor to prosecute, because they did not carry out their duties in accordance with the law. Therefore, Mr President, there is no shadow in this procedure and in this provision. I would like to tell you that, in fact, from what I have learned, since June 2016, when this process started to finalise the legislative text, we have passed a lot. In fact, at first the impunity had been proposed, namely that there should be no criminal liability. The Greek Government, and with the previous Minister, Mr Paradise, and with me, we have just acted in the opposite direction, that is to say, control and transparency and you know very well that, until the end of this process, we were in agreement with the institutions to find the best way to ensure that there is safety and, above all, the citizens, as you did well to say, to make sure that there is no shadow here. I would like to ask you, Mr President: is it possible, in the context of these dilemmas I mentioned, to suspect that three pages will be given with the opinion of the Bank of Greece, perhaps with other complaints to compile the case file, to someone who did not do his job well, or who fraudulently worked by slaping the interests of the bank he represents, but also of the Greek people who have paid for the recapitalisation of the banks?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u117	Prosecutors aren't capable?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u118	Watch out, they're absolutely capable, so they're playing a central role in this case. However, ladies and gentlemen, in order to avoid any malicious complaints - you know that there are - for people who carry out their duties properly, we have chosen this legislation which is in line with both the Constitution and the existing legislation, Article 20 of the Constitution and Article 41 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. I would therefore like to say that you must not be afraid of this procedure. Prosecutors will do their job and do it as they know very well from the moment the application is made, and even from a three-year appealer of the Athens Court, and there is no fear of any liability being avoided, which is documented and inconsistent. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Minister. Here is the second question under number 830/12/2017 (A) by MP Layer of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Bargiotas to the Minister of Health, on the subject of "dimensions takes the anti-infectious movement in Greece as well". The Minister of Health, Mr. Andreas Blondos, responds. Mr Barriotta, you have the floor for two minutes for protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u120	Minister, I would like to thank you for being here with so much patience as he has been in the first question so far. So, anti-infectious movement, I would say a new fruit on the international stage and in Greece slowly. Historically, since 1998, a study of just twelve incidents, which was also shown to be damaged, linked or tried to connect the triple vaccine to the autism. Turns out he had nothing to do with it. Over the past decade, however, it has unfortunately been developing an unscientific movement, one would say, which disputes the value of vaccines, even other things, such as chemotherapy. It speaks of unsubstantiated non-substantiated carcinogenicity, carcinogenicity, etc. It is a movement that is truly dangerous and is dangerous and beyond all logic, because vaccines - and very little I will say - are proven and, according to the World Health Organisation, perhaps the most important health intervention in our time, which has saved millions of people from deaths and other problems. Applications of vaccination strategies in the past thirty years have effectively eradicated diseases, such as the blessing, which has almost disappeared from the planet. In 2002, Europe was declared a ‘continent of free polio’. The results are infinite and the evidence in favour of vaccination is overwhelming. Unfortunately, as I said, it is developing this strange movement of anti-embolism, which also has the peculiarity that parents make decisions for their children who are incapable of having an opinion at that time. It's an additional element. It seems, therefore, that within this framework the first side effects - if you allow me - appear. This winter we are now officially talking about an epidemic of measles in Europe, although about half of the cases are reported in Romania where there are problems of vaccination of the other population, not of refusing vaccination. It seems, however, that in developed countries with very good compliance, such as Italy and Britain, there is an outbreak that is also linked to the phenomenon of anti-infection, to be serious and precise. In Greece it seems that the problem is not a big one, it is a small one. But also the pediatricians, but health professionals like the speaker, are increasingly in touch with people who are concerned, have second thoughts, worry and so on. Honourable Professor Theodoridou says that possibly one in a hundred parents who did not want his child to be vaccinated in 2012, which was carried out in the relevant investigation, probably raises the percentage. There are the great 'hoaxes', the false news online, which dominate, but there is the movement we have said. And the first question, and most importantly, is whether the CCRF is planning enlightenment actions - because I think that is the first issue - and whether it has in its plan the implementation of a plan to tackle the whole of this movement, the defensive one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister for Health, Mr. Andreas Blondos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u122	My dear colleague, Kostas Barriots, I think that this is a good question, and I have to acknowledge that questions of this type which show deeper malfunctions, distortions and diseases of the health system are a little rare in this Chamber. There is a problem and has been recently discussed in the Council of Ministers during the Slovak Presidency in Bratislava in October 2016. This is a growing threat to public health in several countries of the European Union. In our country for many reasons, I am thinking mainly of the fact that the medical center and paternalistic model that exists in our health system is very strong. Obviously, parental behaviours that adopt an alternative culture are isolated, supposedly, in the approach to these issues. Vaccines are a very critical tool to protect public health and prevent internationally. Their contribution is huge in increasing the life expectancy of people and dealing with contagious diseases that have in the past had terrible victims all over the world. I think that what is needed is a serious state to strengthen culture of prevention. And I believe that the effort we are going to make in the coming period to strengthen primary care - which involves prevention in the health care of the population, but also the logic of the family pediatrician, who is responsible and is responsible for preventing in a particular population, vaccinations, pre-symptoms etc. - it is a very important culture, which has been missing so far. The child's health booklet, the recent reorganized, will be linked to the electronic health record in primary care, and there will therefore be a link between the record of children's vaccines. There will be in the family health record, and it will be possible for the family doctor to run around, watch, watch and direct the parents. There is a thought that the parent who refuses to vacate his child should sign a form which will be entered in the child's health booklet and thus in the electronic file. This will allow for a change of conscience. And the crucial issue, I think, is what you said, a universal information campaign that CEDEFOP has decided to move on. There was, on the occasion of a recent European vaccination week. There have been booklets and posters already in hospitals and health centers. There is a very good and documented material, especially focused on this subject, on the CEDEFOP website. And, as I have heard, a special television spot, a film, which can be screened and the awareness of both citizens and health professionals, is being prepared. The primary health bill also strengthens the role of the visitor, who has responsibility and knowledge to contribute in this direction. And I think that what we need now - and it is very important - is not to jeopardise a very good rate of vaccination coverage of the population that we have achieved in Greece, which is 97% in the critical vaccines based on the National Vaccine Programme. It is important that because of this health belt that existed in the population, there were no cases of measles in our country, as in others - because there were also in Italy - developed European countries. It is also very important that we have made a very big effort, and we have covered almost 90% of the refugee camp children, and this has helped us very much not to disperse cases, contagious and infectious diseases over the years that we have managed this major refugee crisis. It has indeed been recognised by the World Health Organisation and has congratulated our country. We have thirty-six months in our country without any case of red and measles.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Barriots has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u124	You have already answered and thank you, Minister. As far as the refugee issue is concerned, it was an issue I would like to raise, because it is indeed a danger. I accept what you are saying and thank you. Although it is true what you said, namely that the rate of compliance with vaccinations in Greece is 97%, I am afraid the movement will come here as well. And there are many problems. I am pleased to hear that there has already been a debate and that training, enlightenment, etc. is being discussed. However, I would also like to raise the second point which is coming. It is the legal framework in force in Greece and its possible amendment. I am not ready to propose, nor to impose solutions, nor to ask for solutions if you want. I think, however, that it is a debate that needs to be opened and must be opened both to the university and to society, to the institutions and to the parties and to the institutions. The picture throughout Europe is not homogeneous. There are voluntary, compulsory and forced vaccination programmes across Europe. There are several tactics. Australia, for example, has financial incentives at one end, namely, parents get money when they complete the vaccination program. There are countries like Canada, where in many areas vaccine integration is a prerequisite for schooling. But there are also countries such as Brazil, which are motivated, as a prerequisite for social, pre-emptive programmes, family benefits, etc., children's vaccination. And there is Slovenia - and this is interesting - which is the first country from what I know on the planet, which has also linked penalties to the failure to vacate children. Failure to complete the vaccination programme of children means a fine, according to Slovenia's latest legislation. Also, in some countries there are legal effects on the initiative of the authorities against parents who have had uninvasive children and who have had problems. And these create precedents of court. In law in the country, although the Ministry's circles are talking about compulsory vaccination - they are a little like smoking - there is no penalty and there is no control. They say that basic vaccinations, as the CEDEFOP describes them, are mandatory, but there is no control over the application of the compulsory requirement. It's something I think we can see and we should see it. There are diligence and penalties in case there is evidence of a defect or poor diligence from the parents of the children. This, however, is one thing which is not clear and has not been clarified. I said before that I don't have any prepared solutions. It is - I think - a complex issue of philosophical, moral, social. All the countries that I have told you have at the same time rules and respect diversity, religion, culture, etc. It is therefore a complex issue, but it must be discussed. I think in the first instance that the creation of a system of incentives and counter-incentives, rather than penalties, would perhaps be the interim step leading us to a more specific and more stringent legislation. And on the basis of what I believe, this is an upcoming risk, as the difficulty with which misleading information is handled on the Internet and on the media is creating too many frauds, which are, in time, becoming more and more dangerous. It might be good to start at least discussing the possibility of changing the legal regime towards a more concrete, clearer and possibly more stringent regime. I would like to hear your opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u126	It's interesting to discuss. We are, indeed, very concerned about the beneficial effect of an increased coverage of the population, for example, on the seasonal influenza vaccine, where this year, after a very systematic effort we have made, we have managed to double the percentage of health professionals that were vaccinated this year and to increase by six hundred thousand the doses made in the general population, with the result that this year the fatal cases of influenza are about 50% lower than last year. It was, of course, different from the strain of the virus and obviously had another infectiousity etc., but we consider that vaccination and effort played a very important role. I would also like to say that there is a wider debate in the European Union, which is in the opposite direction, namely how we can ensure the economic viability of the national vaccination programmes. Because this is an issue, because there are new vaccines that are being developed, which are expensive, they have to enter national programmes under certain conditions, based on the epidemiological data of each country, etc. There are also problems of shortages, because for various reasons, production is falling, and there is a tendency for pharmaceutical companies to direct vaccines massively into large markets and to have a balanced distribution problem. There is therefore an attempt at transnational cooperation at European Union level to meet these needs. That is what concerns him as such. I do not think that we should go, at this stage where the problem is still not particularly high in our country, to a repressive in some way or a punishing action. I think that the effort that will be made should be in the sense of developing the culture of primary care and prevention, which includes vaccination, inter-professional cooperation and the obligation of doctors - especially doctors and doctors - to keep the standards of vaccination for the population - which should be checked and evaluated by public structures - and, in general, to strengthen the culture of documented care and compliance with specific protocols. I think that if we do this, health professionals can also insist more on their intervention and awareness and information in order to address these issues. With regard to this grid of incentives, positive and anti-motors, of which there is an experience in other countries, we would be very happy to discuss it. However, I think that at this stage it should be the signal of our intervention, that is to say, the emphasis on the obligation of the health system and its people to monitor systematically this issue and to inform the population about the beneficial benefits and, above all, to convince parents that socially responsible behaviour is the vaccination of children.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Minister. I'll make some license notices. The Member of Parliament, Mr Vassilis Yoyakas, shall request permission from a short-day absence abroad for the period from 9 June to 14 June 2017. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u128	The House therefore approved the requested permission. MEP Mr. Ioannis Antoniodis is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad on the dates of 23, 24 and 25 May 2017 to participate in a special event in the House of Lords in London on the international recognition of the Greek genocide of the Pontos. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u129	The House therefore approved the requested permission. The Member of Parliament, Mr Marios Georgiadis, shall request permission from a short-day absence from 22 June to 29 June 2017 for personal reasons, as well as from 30 June 2017 for professional reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u130	The House therefore approved the requested permission. MEP Mr Ioannis Maniatis seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad for 22 May 2017, because he will participate as a representative of the Democratic Association within the framework of ECOFIN at the dinner of the Finance Ministers of the Euro-Socialist governments and parties in Brussels. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u131	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Subsequent to the first question under number 839/16-2017, the first question of the First Cycle (B) of the Aetolokarnania Coalition of the Radical Left, Maria Triantafylou, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the upgrading and utilization of the archaeological cultural product of the Prefecture of Itolyakarnania. The question will be answered by the Minister for Culture and Sport, Mr. Lydia Conniordos. My colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning to the Minister and to you. It is a very rich county in archaeological and cultural material. Very recently you visited the Messolong and had the opportunity to attend the exhibition in the hospitable area of "Dexodos" with the important - major findings, I would say - archaeological findings, which came to the surface through the excavations for the construction of the Ionian Road, of course with the most important, most important contribution of Antiquities of Ieolokarnania and Lefkada. There we had the opportunity, both you and many others, to see the graves, the burial buildings, the baths, the tools, the household utensils, the entire settlements discovered in Aetolokarnania in specific places, but almost from up to down, I would say. The six theatres, which exist in the Prefecture, MacNinea, Kalydona, Plerona, Oeniads - you know it very well from the past - Stratos, the most recent, the theatre at Amphicholic Argos, on the border of the Municipality of Amphiechia with Arta, but within Ietolocarnania. Of course, as I said before, the ancient settlements and ancient cities testify to the fact that Aetolokarnania was one of the most densely populated in the territory of the historical Greek area. At the same time, urban development is linked to the historical, mythical and geomorphological elements, the particular relief of the interior with the various contrasts, the heritage of the Aetolian Syndrome, as well as the unparalleled cultural and spiritual contribution of Aetolokarnania to modern Greek history are elements that need to be examined and demonstrated with due respect. Fairly, Aetolokarnania has been designated as a "outdoor museum" and is a place with virgin primitive heritage. And I would say that although it would be reasonable for the cultural product of the county to be developed and to contribute to the more general cultural and economic development of the region, as is usually the case in a large number of other counties in Greece, this is not the case in Itolo-Carnania. There are dozens of archaeological treasures that remain unknown to the general public, and even to existing archaeological treasures many times the turnout is almost impossible. Large shortages in operating staff make a series of non-visitory monuments and the phenomenon of major sites has been observed to be unaccountable during the longer term. I am going to give specific examples and statistics. The two questions, therefore, which are raised in the topical question I have put are as follows: firstly, what is the Ministry's planning for the overall upgrading of the archaeological cultural product in the Aetolokarnania Prefecture and, secondly, what initiatives and actions are expected in this direction and, of course, for the sustainable exploitation of the archaeological treasures of the Prefecture of Aetolakarania? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, my colleague. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Triantafyllou, I was really recently in Messolong and there I saw and admired the unique findings found during the opening of the Ionian Road, and I understood the very important and important excavation work carried out there by the Ionian Islands and Lefkas. In fact, the county is too big with very important findings. From the information I have from Ephoria, the archaeological sites of Kalydon, Oeniads, Nea Pilaronas, Palarios, Roman warmings, Saint Thomas Mesology, Stratou, Thirmos are visited. Macinya is closed, but it can be visited upon consultation. Still there are the very important castles of Nafpaktos, Antirios, Vonitsa and numerous other monuments, such as Fetihie Jami, the Holy Church of Episcopy Mastro, which are also accessible and visited. There are the archaeological museums - very importantly - of Agrinio. The Archaeological Museum of Thyrmos, which opened its gates only a year ago and was financed by the NSRF, as well as by the Thyrenei, which is also a visit after consultation. Also, as you know, there have been hundreds of twenty-three buildings as monuments, as well as nine historical sites, including, of course, the Messolonghi, the Messolonghi, as well as Nafpatikos and nine other places of historical memory. In order to make all these archaeological sites visitable, important interventions have been taken to highlight and protect them through funding from the Second and Third Community Support Frameworks, the INTERREG and the NRP programme, and this has been continued, as the services of the Ministry constantly do all they can to maintain and protect the sites, monuments and museums. He has all the approved studies and I saw this amazing school, the Xenocrate, on my visit. There will be, according to the approved studies in the NRP, the conversion of the school building into a museum area and the organisation of a permanent exhibition of the archaeological collections of Aitolakarannia in Mesolopi. And this in collaboration with the Municipality of Messology. Also, a programme contract with the Region of Western Greece was concluded in October 2016 for restorations to the preserved eastern bridges in the Atolitics of Atolitics. It will also be executed by the Regional Unit of Aetolokarnania, with the supervision of the Services of the Ministry of Culture, the restoration of damage to the Ausliu Bridge and the Tebla monument. Furthermore, it is planned to implement works for restoration and consolidation by the Service of New Monuments and Technical Works in the Tymbos of Mesology Heroes, in the House of Sohoriotis in the Municipality of Agrinio. Furthermore, it has launched a very important program to highlight the ancient theatres. This is with the cooperation of the non-profit Association "Disomma" through programmatic contracts concluded with the respective municipalities. Up to now, under the programme contracts, additional research has been carried out in the monuments and studies have been carried out to promote and restore theatres of Macinia, Kalydon, Oenia, Plerona, which have either already been approved by the Central Archaeological Council, such as the Oiniadas and the Pleuras, are either in the process of their approval, such as MacNia and Kalydon, while the programmatic contract is under way, which concerns the Ancient Stratos Theatre. In addition, specific studies are mature and to be included. Such are the fixing - restoration of the Holy Church of Theotokos Symposium in Vonica, the fixing - restoration of Catholic and the restoration of cells of the Holy Monastery of Myrtias in Thermos, the formation of a route environment and the creation of a permanent archaeological collection in the Fortress of Antirios. Furthermore, the maintenance of frescoes in Agios Ioannis Bomvocus, the maintenance and restoration of new wings in the Bomvocus building complex. These are all studies for approval on the basis of the headquarters' hierarchy. However, they are ready for approval and integration. Another very important part that I think is being done throughout the Greek territory, but particularly in the area of Aetolokarnania, is scientific events, publications and actions for the public and educational programmes. Like, let's say at the Thermos Museum, programs are held in a special hall that the Museum has for this purpose. The aim of the cultural stock of the area is permanent and the familiarization of the citizens with museums, monuments and archaeological sites and an increase in their overall visitability. This is very important to us, and we know that this region in the past has not had the visibility and visibility it deserves, but we also want to emphasise with my own a visit immediately, but with all these proposals, which are mature and already some of them are implemented, that we will place a great emphasis on the rich cultural reserve in the region.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u135	Madam Minister, the rest in your dentistry. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u136	Thank you very much. Indeed, the Minister was quite detailed. Of course, I'll give some clues myself. I must tell you that I have also requested with an ACP of all these elements, namely, essentially all the projects that are part of the specific programmes that you have told us. So I'll take them too. I also asked the service, but perhaps because of a workload, I do not know why I have not been given it, although a number of months have passed - I say again, not from you - with an ACP. There are ancient theatres, as regards the list you told me which is a conditional visit, etc., after consultation, etc. But there are many archaeological treasures that have not been displayed and there are even ancient theaters and locations that cannot be taken by people. I've noted everything you said. For example, I mention the ancient Stratou theatre, where someone really can't go. If he doesn't know it, there's no possibility for anyone to go there, even though at times there can be a concert or maybe a show. In the area, I know well that there is a deterioration. I could say more. But to read some evidence, since you referred to visitability. It has been a short visit. I read, according to ELSTAT, about the visitors of the archaeological sites of Aitolokarnania. In 2013 they visited the archaeological sites of the prefecture three thousand seven hundred sixty-three visitors. In 2014 they increased to four thousand four hundred ninety-two. In 2015, they decreased to three thousand eight hundred twelve. In 2016, until November, we had a significant increase and reached the thirteen thousand five hundred visitors. The same was the case in the museums of Aetolokarnania. In 2014 we had four thousand thirty three visitors, in 2015 we had two thousand seven hundred thirty one and in 2016 we had an increase, more than six thousand people visited the museums of the prefecture. Of course, we have to say that these figures are too small if we consider, on the one hand, the cultural wealth of the region and, on the other hand, the visitability found in the neighbouring prefectures. He has an interest in saying that. For example, in the first half of 2016, the Ioannina Prefecture - it is, of course, a different size, not the size of the area, because the Ioannina Prefecture is the largest county in the country - it had twenty-seven thousand two hundred seven visitors and Prevezis had twenty-three thousand three hundred seventy-seven visitors of archaeological sites. It's indicative, but it's overwhelming. Indeed, as you mentioned, there are processes, such as the archaeological museum in Messolong, there is the Museum in Thyrion, there is the Katakio in the Aetolikos. Recently, the Thirmos Museum was inaugurated in the summer of 2016, with the presence of the President of the Republic. Citizens have dealt positively with the start of the operation of this museum and those who live in areas of archaeological interest - and we must say that almost all the Callicratic municipalities in the county are of archaeological interest and finds - began to gain a confidence in the use of cultural heritage in the county again. I have to say, however, that it remains a question of the cultural heritage of the Aetolokarana county - I see that we are starting and doing this - which will first and foremost make it known and visited and accessible to the general public. That is why, of course, they need - and I see that they are slowly designed - synergies. You said some things. Upgrading of the road network must be done, however, and I would say that it is necessary to integrate the protection and promotion of the cultural heritage of our country, so also of the prefecture, in the broader spatial planning, with a view, of course, to sustainable development that does not cancel the social nature of the cultural asset. There must also be a link between the cultural heritage and the educational process. We can say a lot here. Of course, I have to say this. I'm going to put one last issue. There are priorities. There must be hierarchies. There are certain people and scientists, but also the ministry's, uh, political leadership will prioritise all this. Of course, there are also priorities for maintenance, classification, design, recording, studying every archaeological find that comes to light. But at the end, although it's not the least important, it's the work. I think there should be a clear legislative framework, a clear way of recruiting and opening up new permanent jobs, but also a seasonal potential. Here, I have to say that we need a clear framework, with criteria. Under no circumstances can the government promote and strengthen a new year of rugs. I will say that, because you know that well too. Where such works exist, there are seasonal workers. There must be permanent workers. From there on, the criteria are a safe road that we need to move to complete projects consistently and as we need to. I would like to make one final comment. In this cultural imperialism we are living in, where there is an attempt to impose a homogenised taste and style of life, I think the answer is to get cultural heritage into our everyday lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, too. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr President. I couldn't help but agree with what you said. Besides, my whole course and my deepest faith is that our cultural heritage, the timeless, not only the ancient, material and intangible, is the great wealth and great value of this place. And that really gives us a comparative advantage. We need to place a great deal of emphasis today that has been fully understood by the European Union, but also by Greek citizens how important it is to have a monument in their neighborhood and how much value they can bring, how much activities they can connect to this monument. And that is the philosophy and inspiration that we want to give to all the services, to gain this attitude of cooperation and extroversion. It is very important that our spaces be linked to high quality cultural tourism. Recently I was in Samos. In collaboration with the Ministry of Tourism, we wanted to provide a very great promotion and promotion of a great archaeological find, excavation and restoration that exists in Eupaliniio. We want something similar to be done in many regions of Greece and, of course, in Ioannina. That is why a visit of mine to the immediate future in the region is imminent. Also, it is a very important bet the presence of museums not just as a manifestation of the ancient heritage, but as a place of meeting and connecting the ancient to modern forms of art. So, with the partnerships, which are perhaps the pattern and philosophy of the time, with the cultural institutions of the wider region, many things can happen in these spaces, in museums, in archaeological sites, where it is compatible and allowed access, so that there is no destruction of the monuments, so that young children and the new generation can attract themselves to this new curiosity, the new concern that something modern is happening in these time-consuming places, which is of great importance. And I refer not only to the ancients, but also to the modern ones. In the Messolong, let's say, heading towards 2021, it's a place that needs to emerge the points that link us to the timeless concept of revolution, resistance, human dignity. Also, a very important part is the connection to the special beauty and beauty of the area, its emergence, just so that things are not homogenized and each region has to show its distinctive character, but its unique local products, customs and customs. I would like to tell you some figures at the end, which may be boring, but they are very important and indicative of the priorities that the Ministry gives to the projects in the region: The protection of Hero Kalydon, which has been implemented in the last years with 250,000 euros, the organisation of the permanent report of the new Archaeological Museum of Thermos, 812.046 euros, the emergence and protection of the monuments of Apollo's sanctuary in Thermos, a budget of 550,000 euros, the repair and promotion of the Byzantine Church Timios Bishopos Episcopy Mastros budget of EUR 200,000, the restoration and fixing of sections of the Castle of Nafpaktos and the promotion of the archaeological site, a budget of 300,000 euros. In addition, the great project to highlight the archaeological site of Pelion, financed by the 3rd Community Support Framework and the NSRF, has been carried out. We are, in fact, next to these spaces, and we believe that a great deal of work is needed to be done: from a simple label to the road that the citizen, and the Greek and the visitor, are in need of these spaces, but also with a great campaign to highlight these places. Here I would like to say and stress that citizens throughout the country already understand the value. We want to have them next to us, we want to support this effort, to respond to this timeless wealth as offered by museums and archaeological sites, because their presence will give them even greater visibility. And for our part, we will be able to respond with additional care that we have requested, four hundred more people, to be distributed to the archaeological sites we have not been able to cover them with the previous seasonal archbishops. This process is under way and we hope.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Minister. A number of topical questions will not be discussed as a result of an impediment to the competent ministers and will be redefined for discussion. In particular, the first question under number 831/15-2017 by MP Greven of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Christos Beyala to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, concerning the transition to the digital signal for large parts of the province, will not be discussed due to a workload of Minister Nikolaos Papapas. The second, under number 828/12/2017, the first cycle (A) by the Member of the Attica of the New Democracy, Mavroudi Voridis to the Minister of the Interior, concerning the grant of a five-year obligation allowance, will not be discussed due to a forest fire in which the Deputy Minister of Home Affairs Mr Nikolaos Toskas participates. The first question with number 2710/19-1-2017 question of the circle of petitions and questions by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr.Georgios Arvanitidis to the Minister of Health, on the announcements to resolve the property status of the General Hospital of Thessaloniki "Agios Paul" will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Pavlos Polakis. The second question with number 3934-6-3-2017 question of the circle of petitions and questions by MP of Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Finance, on the privatisation of regional airports, will not be discussed due to a workload of Mr. Euklidis Tsakalotou. The second question under number 835/15-2017 of the New Republic MP Arta Georgios Stylios to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the loan of ECU 138 million to the New Democracy Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs. The European Investment Bank for the construction and renovation of buildings and facilities in AEI will not be discussed due to the unsettled obligations of Minister Konstantinos Gavroglou. Finally, the third question under number 840/16-5-2017 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The regulation of the hundreds of twenty-dollars for all due debts to the municipalities must be applied", due to the unsuccessful obligations of the Minister Panagiotis Skourletis. That concludes the debate on topical and urgent questions. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Monday 6 March 2017, Wednesday 8 March 2017, Thursday 9 March 2017, Friday 10 March 2017, Monday 13 March 2017, Tuesday 14 March 2017, Wednesday 15 March 2017, Friday 17 March 2017, Monday 20 March 2017, Wednesday 22 March 2017, Thursday 22 March 2017, Thursday 23 March 2017 and Friday 24 March 2017 and ask the House if it ratifys them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u140	The minutes of Monday 6 March 2017, Wednesday 8 March 2017, Thursday 9 March 2017, Friday 10 March 2017, Monday 13 March 2017, Tuesday 14 March 2017, Wednesday 15 March 2017, Friday 17 March 2017, Monday 20 March 2017, Wednesday 22 March 2017, Thursday 23 March 2017 and Friday 24 March 2017 were validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-19-S1-commons.u141	With the consent of the House at 13.50 minutes the sitting for the next Monday, May 22, 2017, at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, a debate on topical and urgent questions.
