ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-02-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 3 February 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 419/31-1-2017 by MP Drama of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Christos Karagiannides to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights concerning the action of the "Greek Assembly" and its founder, Artemis Sourra. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 410/30-1-2017 by the Member of Parliament of the Republic of New Democracy Mr Georgios Vlachos to the Minister of Migration Policy on the financing of NGO actions in the process of receiving and treating refugees and third-country nationals entering Greece. 3. The Question No 420/31-1-2017 by MP Magnesia of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Panagiotis Iliopoulou to the Minister of Finance about the public's dues to private individuals. 4. The Question No 414/30-1-2017 by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance about the state of the investment in the former airport of Greece. 5. The question under number 426/31-1-2017 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Mr. Ioannis Delis, Minister for Research and Religious Education, about the student attendance at maritime high school. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 411/30-1-2017 by MP Argolidas, New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Andrianos, Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the need for direct compensation for olive growers and producers of mandarin’s variety ‘clementine’ in Argolida. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by no. 421/31-1-2017 was raised by MP B' Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panagiotarou to the Minister of the Interior, on the resurrected action of Turkish agents and their representatives in Thrace. 3. The Question No 415/31-1-2017 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the deferral of the notices of the Agricultural Development Programme. 4. The question by No 427/31-1-2017, by MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Stavros Tassos to the Minister of Health, about the inclusion of the Oncology - Haematological Unit of Daily Hospital in the Organization of the Mytilini Hospital. 5. The Question No 416/31-1-2017 by the Independent MEP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the case of beer and whether there are jury members in the Competition Committee. 6. The Question No 390/24-1-2017 by the Independent MEP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Health on the reduction of expenditure in special education and treatment. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 344/16-1-2017 by MP II Athens, New Democracy, Catherine Papakostas - Ironropoulou, Minister for Health, concerning the discontent of citizens with EEAS and public health care. 8. The Question No 358/17-1-2017 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, concerning measures to be taken on the disasters in agricultural crops in areas of Crete due to snowfall and ice. 9. The Question No 351/16-1-2017 by MP Messinia of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Dimitrios Koukoutsis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the abolition of the Kalamata Olive PDO. 10. The question by No 348/16-1-2017 by MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARMAR Mr.Ioannis Manatis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the resumption of the extension of the management plan for the Vinzotrat, which directly jeopardises the viability of the Greek seas. 11. The 328/10-1-2017 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Research and Religious Education, about the education of the applicants. Questions - Questions (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Question No 2149/20-12-2016 by Mr Athanasios Davakis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity concerning the possibility of amending this provision (Article 12 of Law No.4387/2016) which particularly affects cases where the wife of the deceased is not working. Ladies and gentlemen, since we are starting in time, I will first read the current questions that will not be discussed. The second, with number 398/27-1-2017, is a timely first-round question by the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament, Emmanuel Konsolas, to the Minister of Tourism Mr Helena Kountoura, on the lack of secondary and specialised processing of arrival data, which creates a false and inaccurate picture of our tourism will not be discussed. The following questions will also not be discussed as a result of an impediment to the relevant ministers and will be redefined for discussion: The first question under number 405/30-1-2017 of the SYRIZA MP, Christos Beyalas, on the transition to the digital signal for large parts of the province will not be discussed due to the unsuccessful obligations of the Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, Mr. Nicholas Pappas. Eleventh, under number 333/12.01.2017, a topical question by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou, on the financing of journalists and websites, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, Mr. Nicholas Pappas. The first, with number 404/30-1-2017, top-stage question of the first-stage parliamentary Karditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Chrysula Katsavria - Siropoulou, on the drafting of a national cotton support plan, will not be discussed due to a blockade by the State Secretary for Rural Development and Food, Mr. Vassilis Kokkalis. Also, the second question under number 399/27-1-2017, on the delay of the project to extend the Peninsula River Canal in western Achaia, will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the State Secretary for Rural Development and Food, Vassilis Kokkalis. Likewise, the seventh question under number 402/27-1-2017, the first question of the Greek Parliamentary I of the Union of Centrals Mr.Ioannis Saridis, concerning the reduction of the cost of diagnostic tests for breast cancer, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Pavlos Polakis. The fifth question under number 408/30-1-2017 of the Deputy Minister of Health of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Ioannis Giokas, on the serious problems of families and workers in special education services will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Pavlos Polakis. The tenth under number 337/13-1-2017 topical question from the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastinos, on the scope of the application of telemedicine in Greece, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Pavlos Polakis. The twelfth under number 313/5-1-2017 is a topical question for the second Piraeus II cycle of the Association of Centres Mr.Theodoras Megalo-Economist to the Minister of Health, concerning the risk of children and adolescents staying without treatment, will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paul Polakis. Also, the second question by No 89/5-10-2016 of the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, to the Minister of Health, concerning the completion and segregation of the Oncology Department of the Rhodes Hospital, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paul Polakis. Also, the third question with number 89/5-10-2016 by Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Health, concerning the completion and segregation of the Oncology Department of the Rhodes Hospital, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paul Polakis. There is, of course, also the relevant bulletin, which the General Secretariat of the Government and the Secretary-General always sends with care, with the timely questions that will be discussed and which will not be discussed. The seventh will be discussed under number 366/20-1-2017, a topical question for the second cycle of MP in Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the restoration of injustice in the production of electricity from domestic photovoltaic systems. The question will be answered by the Minister for the Environment and Energy, George Stathakis. Mr. Saridis, you have the floor for two minutes to suggest your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-02-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, as you know, the application of the provisions of Law 4254/2014 has brought about a huge and significant reduction in the guaranteed electricity price by 42%, the current produced on roofs of some forty-two thousand households who have installed photovoltaic power systems up to ten kilowatts. This unjust situation, as described above, has created, in addition to its moral and legal status, enormous economic problems for electricity producers, has damaged the national economy and is essentially opposed to the announcements by the Government and Prime Minister of growth by a fair and social sign, free from the distortions of the past, while effectively affecting energy production with as much spatially dispersed and environmentally friendly methods as possible. It is recalled that the Prime Minister has stated in the near future that no growth and no productive reconstruction can be based on social ruins and that the power of this government is the confidence of the Greek people and the honour that this government has with him. Then, Minister, you ask: do you recognize this problematic and unjust situation? And if so, what is the planning of the Ministry of Environment and Energy to solve the problem and what is the timing of the initiatives you are planning to take? Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-02-S1-commons.u3	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-02-S1-commons.u4	As you know, Greece follows the objectives of the European Union for the development of RES and has agreed with the two objectives: 2020 to produce 20% of energy and 2030 to 30% of energy. The first target of 2020 has been achieved almost by now, we are at 18% to 19%. This has been achieved by a large growth in renewable energy sources in previous years, but, as a starting point, an excessive promise on the part of the then government about the return on investment in the RES, which would exceed 25% per annum, commonly that these investments would be amortised in four years. This has changed in the course for objective reasons, firstly, because this cost is paid by consumers and, according to data, the RES remains the most accurate form of energy and the mixture, that is, the relationship with the cheapest production of lignite and water and gas that were intermediate, determines the average price that the consumer pays. Thus, in fact, one dimension was that a rationalization had to be made. This was the case with L.4254/2014, which was a large agreement for all categories of producers with new average compensation prices that ensures to the fullest extent a uniform burden-sharing for all existing PV stations, taking into account the parameters such as manufacturing technology, procurement costs, equipment installation, plant size and time of operation of the investment. With regard to these facilities - I mean housing - their economic performance on the basis of the data of L.4254 remains 18.5% to 20%, far above the average, which is 13.5%. Therefore, the annual return on PV roofs has a higher return precisely because it is not a commercial activity and was also granted by Ministerial Decision at the end of 2014 the possibility of offsetting for the same needs of the producers. Today, from the information sheets of the special account of the RES, PV systems on roofs in 2003 received a fee of EUR 514.8 from MWh. Today the price is 397 euros, almost 400 euros. It is commonly accepted that the guaranteed compensation price remains at a satisfactory level. I would remind you that in order to be able to compensate for the production of energy from RES, the specific charge for the reduction of emissions of pollutants has been imposed, EMFFAR, which between 2010 and 2016 has increased by 6.000%. EMFF is an important burden component in the electricity account and therefore balances between producers and consumers. It is a permanent concern to the current political leadership of the HR, along with the equal treatment of the various owners of PVs and the elimination of distortions, to which you have referred and which remain exclusively the responsibility of the previous governments. There is also a second European dimension. The European dimension says that the scheme of guaranteed RES production prices is gradually transferred to a scheme which also operates under market rules. With regard to this European framework and the European directive, in this transitional dimension we with ministerial decision in 2015 ensured that the transitional security charge, for the category specifically of PV roofs, is zero. So we have given a privileged treatment in relation to the other RES categories that will join the market system and operate about one to a year and a half from now. To conclude, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is trying to do two things: firstly, gradually transfer and continue to develop the RES. I repeat that we have achieved the 2020 target with the new large wind-cycle investment. We can say that we will also achieve the 2030 target very soon. So the RES is developing. Secondly, we want a balance in prices. By following the European system, we are trying to introduce more competitive market rules to the electricity producers RES. Thirdly, we need to keep a balance with consumers, because in the end consumers are paying for electricity production. With these three concerns and given the equal treatment of power generators, we are open to dialogue on established distortions. We believe, however, that today's performances, at least as between 13%, given the reduction in RES costs, and 18.5% to 20%, which enjoy certain categories - and rightly so - are a balanced approach.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-02-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Saridis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-02-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, Mr.4254/2014 SYRIZA had not supported him, when he had been presented to the Greek Parliament, and even conquered him. What you are now saying to me to me is the answer that will be transferred to the Pan-Hellenic Photovoltaics Association, with which you will probably have in the beginning of this month, as promised, a working meeting. It is an answer that clearly does not satisfy those people who trusted the Greek state. It doesn't matter whether they trusted her this year or if they trusted her three years ago, but they trusted her, they signed with her and started an effort, which had shown that it would do good to the Greek economy and the climate. A few days ago you had a working meeting with the Commissioner of the European Union and you discussed the positive effects of renewable energy sources both on the national economy and on the climate. In fact, Mr Kanyete also informed the committees of this. At these meetings it was a common assumption of how we should move forward. The roofing photovoltaics, you know, are the first line to move this effort, which needs to be done for the next day. The government, in its current attitude, Minister, does not show that it is aware of the damage suffered by forty-two thousand households, who have trusted, even - to accept this - the government which has passed away. From that point on, but what are you doing? You are not here to create social ruins, Minister. You are to give solutions and to engage in dialogue. In any case, regardless of the attitude the Ministry will show, we will monitor the specific dialogue and attitude of the Ministry and come back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-02-S1-commons.u7	Mr Stathakis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-02-S1-commons.u8	First of all, I've met the club. But agree with me on some of the statutes. If the previous government had promised at some point that they would have yielded 30% and 35% a year and would make a return in three years and for the next twenty-five years, you can understand that in Greece of the crisis we cannot claim that the answer is "I am shaping you an investment, desirable, you will be depreciating it in three years and for twenty-five years you will enjoy it". These were promises made by governments that did not make sense. It is logical that the system is in place, and we are discussing it in the light of European developments, as is happening in the field of RES. I repeat precisely the numbers and tell me if they are so unfairly treated. The figures say that today they are rewarded with EUR 397, compared with EUR 512, which was the guaranteed price at the time, in the time of Mrs Birbil, who has promised rabbits with rocks, obviously! And we're here to fix. It has a yield of 18.5% to 20% per annum, and so it is depreciated in four years. If they've taken a loan, it means amortization in five, and if I accept more, it means depreciation in six. However, these are the economic data. And, I repeat, that today the average amortisation of RES, the return on capital in the RES, which is entered in the calculation systems, as we do at the various levels, regulatory authorities, is on average 13%. So there's a measure. I've told this at the club. There are some sub-texts to which there might be some minor corrections in relation to the law you invoked at the time. But that's possible. In principle, however, I do not think there is too much room to change this data.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-02-S1-commons.u9	We continue with the question of the question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassiliou Kegeroglou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the separation of cases of the real rhetoric and the assessment of possible unrecorded consumption and inclusion in the settlement of the thirty-six instalments of PPC of all categories of consumer debt. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-02-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, on 5 December the question was tabled, the arrangements decided on by the administration for outstanding electricity debts had not been announced. However, the problem remains on a number of points, particularly on the subject I am raising. There is indeed a question of rhetoric. However, since I have been informed, the way in which theft is found to be or not, is not complete. So for cases where people are away from home for any reason - houses closed because of the end of the rental or for possible renovation - it is not certain that the certification and determination of whether there is a rhetorical or one of these cases is being carried out on the spot. She came to my office - and on this occasion I investigated the subject and asked a question - an eighty-year-old lady who was gone six months and on Athens, her daughter, and when she returned she was described as a "reflectionist". There was no possibility - and I do not think there can be any possibility for this - that this can be done. But it's done in accounting. In other words, when the computer is shown by a percentage and upward difference, it immediately enters the possible rheumatism. But there should also be an on-the-spot examination if one of the cases that I mention is the case. That's the first thing. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The second point is that even in the context of the new arrangement decided by PPC, which facilitates many cases, there are some contradictions, which the administration will probably have to see immediately and before the end of this process, so as to deal with them. I think it's a distortion. That is, I see here in the event that it makes the arrangements for up to EUR 500 and while it provides a discount, it says that this amount will be rescheduled for the period of one year, it will not be free of interest. These two are contradictory or, at least, seem contradictory. There are cases where, when we have unrecorded consumption, they don't make you more than four doses. However, this should apply to cases where theft is detected, not recorded. Last is the case in which we have been interrupted because of a debt, which means that it does not have the opportunity to pay. That's where he comes in and tells him in twelve instalments, not thirty-six. But if he had the opportunity to pay, he would pay and not even need the twelve instalments. This, perhaps, needs a correction. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-02-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-02-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, there is one point you share. It recommends an agony for both PPC and the environment that the rheumatism is in 5%. It's too high the rate. It's a big problem. We all understand that financial pressure can lead to extreme situations, but it does not justify under any circumstances and given the entire institutional framework the use of theft. The measurements are made by the DEDDIE and not by PPC. The DEDENH monitors and transfers the data. If there are very long discrepancies in history, the DEDENE testifies to the rheumatism. PPC, for its part, has an automatic system whereby if it is institutionalised with a very large deviation for some time - it does not automatically - then there is evidence that it is now invoiced differently, just as predicted in the case of rupture. In any case, obviously, if that happens, there is the procedure of objections, which is being activated and which leads to what you have invoked at the beginning, in other words, the need for the DEDEN on the ground to carry out a re-check and review. In the event that the TENE certifies that although this very large deviation was not rhetorical, PPC cancels the extra charge and the customer is treated with the agreed charges. Last point and important. PPC offers the setup package for those who have fallen into the rookie. Obviously, the arrangements cannot be as favourable as those of the people who had a lack of payment and which are part of a slightly more favourable system of arrangements. The equation obviously cannot be done, because another issue is the inability to pay, in which case there is an attempt to have a system of arrangements that facilitates consumers, and of course theft. I repeat that in this case PPC's regulation system, as it has been shaped, is very satisfactory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-02-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-02-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Indirectly we have received an answer why this alalum is done by rhetoric or the possible non-recorded, due to other reasons. It's another body. So this lady goes to PPC and tells the employee: “What are we doing now, my child?” "We'll make arrangements, ma'am." Since we have a debt, it makes the adjustment and it pays the first instalment. Then when she realized that she was being accused of stealing electricity while it was not the case, there was nothing she could do, because by adjusting and paying the first instalment she accepted that she was in this regime. So he couldn't object. There's a matter here. Look at it. I'll put it on. There are too many people who face it and, indeed, we need to separate it. For those who are stealing, the system must be stricter, but not for the rest. To God! It can't be accountable. Or change a system. However, to the TEN, to PPC, and until we see what's going on, there's a gap that looks like. In the regulations that have been decided, I think, at the beginning of January, there are two - three gaps which I have highlighted and which can be improved in order to have a better performance. Because apart from the anguish and interest that exists about the weakness of consumers and especially those vulnerable, I assume that there is also a large gap with revenue on the part of the agency. It is therefore important to see how this improves. So I would point out again the contradiction that while it gives the possibility of a 10% discount if it is up to EUR 500 for the whole year, at the same time it says that this will be injurious. The second thing that I think needs to be reviewed is that when there is an interruption due to a debt, it should also be done there in thirty-six instalments. There's no need. The economic weakness is and is simply beyond the reasonable time that it leaves - I believe - without interrupting and interrupting for the same reason that, for many thousands of consumers, there is, in fact, a failure to pay the debt. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That's for granted. The other criteria, depending on the level, which have been set out in the previous categories, could be said to be fair. But in this case, since he has had a weakness and that's why the current is cut off and they say, "No, you'll pay in twelve instalments," I think it's contradictory. In conclusion, I would like to say that there may be the possibility of a statement of objection, to establish whether it is rhetoric or simply accounting due to other reasons, such as the absence of the house, the interruption of the rent or the renovation of the house - I have raised three cases in my question - but there must be a procedure of objection and, after a possible request for a settlement which may run, so that the man who subsequently understands that he is accused of something he has not done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-02-S1-commons.u15	Thank you. Minister, would you like to take a second time?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-02-S1-commons.u16	No, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-02-S1-commons.u17	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a few communications to make. We have two requests for permission to go abroad, in accordance with Rule 76 of the Rules of Procedure, which read as follows: 1. Mr President, I request permission to move to England from Sunday, February 26th to Thursday, March 2nd. Yours sincerely, Mitakis.’ 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. ‘Please accept as I am licensed to be absent abroad from 6 to 9 February 2017 for personal reasons. With appreciation, Nikos Dendias.’ Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-02-S1-commons.u18	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations. I will continue with the timely questions that will not be discussed. The third, with number 394/24-1-2017, a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Aetolocarnania of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Konstantinos Barbarousi to the Minister of the Interior, concerning measures to modernise the water network in the city of Aetolikos, in order to protect the public health and health of the inhabitants of the region. Nor will the sixth question be discussed under number 367/20-1-2017, a topical question by Evia MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaos Michou to the Minister of the Interior, on the unacceptable displacement of thirty-six thousand seven hundred sixty-sixteen Greek children from the nurseries. No debate will be held on the eighth under number 365/20-1-2017, a topical question for the second cycle of the New Democracy MP, Andreas Katsaniotis, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the reopening of transitional sections of the TEI of Western Greece, due to the impediment of the Minister of Education, Research and Religion Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou. Cause: Workload. Nor will the ninth question be discussed under number 338/13-1-2017 in the context of the second question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the prospects for the residence of the twenty-eight islands that upgrade the national sovereignty of Greece and strengthen the sovereign rights of the country, due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Shipping and Island Policy Mr. Nektarios Santoriniou. Cause: Disclosed liabilities. Also, there will be no discussion of the third under number 393/24-1-2017 in the first cycle of the Athens Parliamentary of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zarulias to the Minister of Finance, regarding the appointment of a judiciary to the administration of the Overseas Demilitions, due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance Mr. Euclidis Tsakalotou. Cause: Workload.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-02-S1-commons.u19	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-02-S1-commons.u20	Here you go, Mrs. Zarulia.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-02-S1-commons.u21	Madam President, today's timely question which will not be answered concerns the appointment of the daughter of Mrs.Asina Xerotyri - Catherinei, former SYRIZA MP and former MP of DIMAR to the Supreme Court of Deprivation. So, as we know, most of the articles that I will present in a short time are in the courts accused of defiance of the well-known case of financing of GENOP - PPC - and of a factory in the literal ghost of PPC in Rhodes, for which 75 million euros were spent. Nevertheless, SYRIZA entrusted her with the management of the country's public property. Here, therefore, the question arises, to what purpose was chosen by this Mrs.Akaterinari, for the specific position of CEO in the Hellenic Company of Participants and Property. She's a judiciary. He's in court right now. He's facing a felony charge.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-02-S1-commons.u22	Mrs Zaroulia, first of all there is no Minister to answer you...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-02-S1-commons.u23	No, but wait a minute, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-02-S1-commons.u24	So where's the question?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-02-S1-commons.u25	We see that in the democracy in which you believe there are two standards. Clearly, citizens are not equal, as the Greek Constitution imposes. Setting up the state grant to a party elected by the people, which owes no bank, no public money has been abused, but has been dragged into court following a political plunger and you SYRIZA's relentless...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-02-S1-commons.u26	Mrs. Zaroulia, I think there's no reason to go on. If we're gonna keep going here...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-02-S1-commons.u27	...you don't talk to us because we're indicted. She's a courtesy, too. She hasn't been elected...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-02-S1-commons.u28	Mrs. Zaroulia, and you're indicted and speaking in this House as you can see.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-02-S1-commons.u29	Can you hear me? It has not been elected by the people. You have appointed her.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-02-S1-commons.u30	You, I say, are indicted and spoken to the House. There is no hindrance to being appointed in this position, by the fact that it is pending at the expense of criminal prosecution.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-02-S1-commons.u31	Seriously, huh? She has the presumption of innocence.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-02-S1-commons.u32	Uh, yeah. That's what the law says.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-02-S1-commons.u33	You don't recognize us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-02-S1-commons.u34	That's what the law says. In any case, the Minister responsible will answer you. Now we're not substituting...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-02-S1-commons.u35	If he comes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-02-S1-commons.u36	How's he not coming? Why isn't he coming?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-02-S1-commons.u37	He's not coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-02-S1-commons.u38	Do you have such a sample?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-02-S1-commons.u39	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-02-S1-commons.u40	On January 24th, you testified it. Please, now. Don't make any impressions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-02-S1-commons.u41	If she passes, she won't be timely, ma'am.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-02-S1-commons.u42	Well, we're on. Ladies and gentlemen, the following topical questions will not be discussed: The fifth under number 409/30-1-2017 topical question of the first cycle of the Athens MP of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Finance on the sale of the "National Insurance". The sixth under number 406/30-1-2017 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance regarding the transfer of PPC users to companies of alternative electricity providers. The eighth Question No 400/27-1-2017, the first-round question of Z' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of Athens, Potamios Spyridon Lykoudi, with regard to untreated properties for which the public pays high rents. The thirteenth, with number 345/16-1-2017, is a topical question for the second question of the Athens MP, Mr. Spyridonos - Adonidos Georgiadis, to the Minister of Finance, on mismanagement issues in the Hellenic Defence Systems (ESA). Nor will the fourth under number 2117/10/19-12-2016 question and application for the submission of documents by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARKKKKKKOS KEgeroglou to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the delay in the completion of the project "Panamomomomos - Exanti", due to the impediment of the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport Mr Christos Spirtzis, because he is outside Athens. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, thirty-four students and students and four educational attendants from the 6th Municipal School of Vyron. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] As you have heard, almost a majority of questions will not be discussed today. That is why there is no participation. Also, the fourth question under number 392/24-1-2017, the first question of the Parliamentary Attica of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday (Evia) Christophilopoulou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the non-participation of representatives of the members of the Single Social Security Agency (ESMA) will not be discussed due to a member's emergencies. It is planned to discuss another question, which will be answered by the Minister of Culture, Lydia Connordos. Because the congressman has a coma, but he'll be here in three minutes, I suggest we take a short break. It is not customary, but since we have so few questions today, let us do this service, to discuss this question as well. Discontinue for five (5') minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-02-S1-commons.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the meeting. The fourth question by number 396/25-1-2017 will be discussed in the second question of the Athens MP of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdou to the Minister of Culture and Sport on the situation at the "Athens Concert Hall". Mr. Loverdos has the floor for two minutes to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-02-S1-commons.u44	Madam Minister, I speak to the Minister of Culture, who in 2015 abolished the teaching of the "Eptafios" of Pericles - abolished Thucydides - and which the Institute of Education Policy is now making proposals to abolish the teaching of "Antigone". So I don't expect much. However, in your first speech as Minister of Culture I attended you. I was surprised by a phrase. After a visit to China you said that you saw Greece as a small boat on an endless sea. You may have said it better, but that's how I've held it. That's right, but this little ship floats and sails all these years because it has its civilization, because it has its name, because it has its traditions. You're Minister of Culture. I cannot separate you from Mr Baltas and Mr Xydakis in the sense of time. You're two years of government. In relation to the question I have raised, do not be surprised that this is my first question to you. I, as a Member of Parliament, have a few issues regularly, but with constant monitoring. What I address to the Ministry of Culture on May 12th, about six months ago - the third time today - I do so in all the areas I have chosen. I have asked you two very specific questions. What are you going to do with the overall regulation on the tax picture of the House and if you intend to help the House with further funding? In my dentistry, I'll say more.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-02-S1-commons.u45	Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-02-S1-commons.u46	Mr Loverdos, you may not remember that remark I made, which I identified the difference of scale between the small boat in Greece. In fact, I mentioned the small boat, but precious boat carrying a huge treasure, a very important diamond, that lasts its light within centuries. This is perhaps by isolating only a phrase of my own words reduces the general spirit with which this phrase had been formulated. Now we are moving on to the subject of the Athens Concert Hall. It is a political decision, not only by my own government but also by previous ones, to support and solve problems that occur at the Concert Hall of Music, which unfortunately during the previous administrations of the Megaron and the previous governments have not been solved, even though there has been much less suffocating financial regime since today. Regarding the amount of the grant, the Greek Government exceptionally authorised the amount of EUR 14,387,000 from the regular budget reserve for 2016 to pay off the certified operating dues that had been incurred until 31-12-2015. It increased by a further EUR 1 million the grant for 2016. Law No.4366/2016 incorporated the staff of the Concert Hall of Music into the Single Payroll, maintaining part of the personal difference, in order to reduce the relevant operating expenditure. The new administration of the Concert Hall, with which we have an excellent relationship and very close cooperation to solve the problems together, has taken into account the need not to create new dues and draw up a new business plan in order to increase the relative revenues from commercial activities, in particular conferences, rents of auditors that will compensate and overcome the impact of the severe economic crisis on sponsorships and revenues from performances. Furthermore, the total debt of the Grand Musician to the DU of EUR 104 million was made possible by Law.4366/2016 its impairment by EUR 53 million. Of course, the problems are not solved, but we think that the efforts that have been made are far beyond what has been done in the past. For 2017, the regular grant from the Ministry of Culture and Sport is of the order of 3 million. We're trying to increase this. We also note that due to the amount of the debts of the Continental Musician has been exempted from presenting insurance and tax information for several periods, lasting the period from 28-11-2016 to 28-2-2017 in order to be able to obtain insurance and tax information in order to receive the grant. We are trying to be able to absorb some programmes to strengthen the maintenance and renewal of infrastructure, which is very important, as you know.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-02-S1-commons.u47	Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-02-S1-commons.u48	Maybe you didn't understand my generalization. I agreed. I said I really liked what you said. But when you hit on key points what is called history, tradition, culture, such as the abolition of the teaching of the "Eptafios" of Pericleus, you open holes in the boat and water will enter. More generally, culture, despite the crisis, must be respected. Let's go to the specifics now, Minister. You have received as government the Athens Concert Hall with too many problems. We kept him up with a number of amendments because he was supposed to be preparing a comprehensive legislative reform. The Samara - Venizelou government fell. Mr. Xydakis continued this effort and Mr. Baltas brought it to Parliament. We voted for it. Your partner did not vote for it. We supported it. Your partner went elsewhere. Then there was a problem with the General Accounting Office of the State, while we voted to have a comprehensive tax arrangement, to have a clear picture for the House. So, he gets the public a billion buildings? To undertake the relevant tax obligations as well. The General Accounting Office of the State accepted half with interpretation. When you brought her here, you weren't here to support her. You said something and you left. But then I spoke and said - I was hoping one of your advisors would have told you - 'to make an amendment to this, because last year with Mr.4366/2016 the House voted for a comprehensive regulation'. And your own MPs and we are. Instead, you have brought an amendment. Okay, I said. An amendment that ends in February. In a few days you'll have to come to the House again. Bring in the overall amendment. We'll support you. But if you take it for a month, we run out. You'll go on your own after. And if you have the majority, vote for them. And you still can't say tax information. Ask Mr. Theaharakis. He's been committed to debt accounts at the IKA. He's been committed to personal accounts. I warned him. As I also told Mr Balta that very badly changed Mr Mano at such a difficult time, because the new guy needs time to know. That's how people do. They don't know everything. I don't know if he has or doesn't have abilities. It's another matter. But I know that he, like all people, needs time. You made a change over where the iron was boiling. And now the young man needs time. It took time. But it doesn't take time. Has he, Minister, done the three-year public contract so he knows his income? He hasn't even got a schedule yet. For the first time, the program appeared in December, in your presence, I learned. The programs are presented in the autumn, not in winter. There is no citizen who can at the moment get a form and see what the Big Man's program is, because everything's in the doll. Madam President, there is the impression that the rich are in the House. I love it, despite all the problems it has. I accept the problems and criticisms you make. But anyone watching it and an event ends will see that a lot of people go by subway, by bus and trolley. They are ordinary people of Athens and beyond Athens who find something there. This place makes us proud as a place of culture, as I believe in the Niarchus Foundation, we will feel the same. Listen. If you've made a decision without telling us to close it, you have to confess. You cannot accept, as a minister who does not have the burdens, that at the end of the overall arrangement, Mrs Connordos, all that has been done is to cut workers' incomes. Nothing else has happened. We're watching them day to day. And you know why? Because we also have the responsibility of participating in that vote on L.4366/2016. Yes, I did. Because we have a responsibility, we also feel to our fellow Members and colleagues that we should not have gone further than voting with you, as we have done on other issues relating to rights - and they do not vote here - and, at the same time, we are lost because we have done something that the government has done to make fun of. Please very much. I have no interest in these issues, as in the issues of education, foreign policy and defence, to make the opposition we are doing about the social state and the economy. We're cooperative, but beyond what your partners tell you, because you're new too, but you're three to four months - take care of what you're saying. And please very much, get a better update.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-02-S1-commons.u49	Madam Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-02-S1-commons.u50	I would like to confess this. I admire your rhetoric cowardice, Mr. Loverdos. You have a great deal of parliamentary experience, unlike mine, which, as you said, is very small. I am a humble servant of truth, justice, dignity and selflessness, Mr. Loverdos. What I'm saying has not been told by others, we've lived as citizens for years, when we saw the Congregation of Music, allowed him to grow up by previous governments, in a way that was never possible to ensure its viability. Yes, you kept it open, but you did nothing to ensure its viability. We are making efforts, Mr. Loverdos. Efforts have been made and efforts are now being made. The fact that the full debt has not been met, which you have allowed it to be created, to the banks, is linked to the government's ability to provide additional money from the ordinary budget. However, Mr Loverdos, the measure has been lost in previous years. And the hybrid is punished. This is what we are trying to heal, step by step, in close cooperation. The Concert Hall of Music, as you've found very well, is not just the building, it's not just the marbles, the halls and the halls. They're people! The effort that's being made is that these people don't lose their jobs. The wage cuts were made as they were throughout the country and indeed with particular care for these people. So don't tell us we're not interested in people. Our first concern is for the staff, for the artists who will find work there and express their art. But that's not all. Apart from the remarkable programme that has been presented, - the delay was due to the remodelling - and it is in the hands of all citizens, there is a very nice presentation of a wide variety and with cooperation, there is hospitality of bodies who are homeless and where they can rehearse and present their work. Also, in collaboration with Miltos Logiadis, it is currently opening the Congregation to the new creators, which never happened in the past. The Congregation of Music has always exploited the skills of already renowned artists. At the moment, the Megaron is turned into a incubator of musicians, a dancer's nursery, an actor's incubator. This is a very big change in how we see the Congregation of Music. We want this place to be given to the citizens of Athens and not just those who traditionally watch classical music or are our most cultivated fellow citizens. As far as the subject of tragedy is concerned, because you know that I have been particularly concerned, for years, with the entire area dealing with the ancient drama, we wondered why "Antigon" is not taught in schools, but taught by all the works of ancient tragedies, "Eleni". I am telling you this because the subject of the content of the studies concerns us very much. However, let us not forget things that have been wrong in previous years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-02-S1-commons.u51	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", thirty-four students and students and two teachers from the 18th High School of Athens. The House welcomes them. Children, today you are following the last question of a procedure called parliamentary scrutiny. In other words, the Member is asking a Minister a question on a specific matter that he is interested in and the Minister is answering. Today - as you have heard - the subject was the Congregation of Music and its fate, given that they have been in crisis for some time now, its economics and its future in general. Thank you, too, and your teachers for coming to the House. It's very important. So the topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-02-S1-commons.u52	With the consent of the House at 10.36 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday 3 February 2017, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: topical questions.
