ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Single discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: "Organization and operation of higher education, regulations on research and other provisions". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 24 July 2017 to discuss the draft law at two single meetings in principle, on articles and on amendments. We also propose that the listing of speakers should be completed with the speech of the fourth speaker, Mr Anthony Gregos, and not after the first two, precisely because it is Monday, and many colleagues may not have come yet. There is this extension to make it easier for Members to register. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u2	The House therefore agreed. Ladies and gentlemen, a request for unconstitutionalism has been tabled by Mr Andreas Loverdos, who signs it. We have reached agreement - Mr Loverdos also - that the debate on unconstitutionalism should take place after the end of the fourth speaker and that the Members concerned will also be on the list. So we start the process and we will proceed in this way.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u3	Mr President, the point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u4	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u5	I wanted to speak for one minute on the amendments, which have just been tabled. Mr President, last week a major issue was raised in the Greek Parliament because a large number of amendments were tabled at the last time. The Bureau of Parliament has even said that it is indeed a huge issue and we should look at it in order to find ways to resolve it. We have eleven ministerial amendments. Today, four of them were tabled. This is essentially not just a way of not having proper legislation, but it is a shame to try to move forward in such a critical way. Mr President, there are two amendments from the Ministry of Interior, two from the Ministry of Finance, two from the Ministry of Economy and Development, one from the Ministry of Culture, one from the Ministry of Labour, one from the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction, one from the Ministry of Justice, and only one from the 11 is from the Ministry of Education, which is also the bill for discussion today. We cannot go this way. Minister, will you accept these amendments? Will you accept other ministerial amendments, or will the list be closed today? Finally, we must legislate in a way that Members can follow. It is not possible for the government to dismantle everything in the way it is legislated.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u6	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u7	On the same subject, Mr Georgioda?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u8	Mr President, I think that after what happened last week, it is an opportunity for the House, while maintaining its self-respect, not to let the images of the last week be repeated. I would like to ask the Government that this procedure of amendments which have been tabled until the last minute be stopped. Whatever was filed, it was filed. We also have a commitment that nothing else will be tabled during the two days of the meeting. There is another legislative work, after all. I think that we all owe this to a society which does not understand what is happening in here, but at least wants certain ethical and good legal rules to be observed. It is a question of self-respect to maintain this principle. What started last week to complete it today, not to force the Opposition again to resort to extreme means. Please, therefore, to the Government to stop the previous practice...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u9	We're demanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u10	Listen to me. It is now expressed as a request, Mr President. But opposition knows how to fulfil its opposition duty and institutional role. I am simply appealing to the self-respect of colleagues and ministers, not to continue, not to continue what we saw in plenary last time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u11	They do not even exist in the seat, Mr President. Where are the amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u12	Mr. Comrade, let's move on. I think that the call for a different approach to this issue has been tabled by both colleagues. The government through the Minister hears it. I hope we have a solution. We must, however, now get into the process, because the matter has been raised. Welcome, but let's go further. The SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Merope Jufi, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u13	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, after a long and long cycle of repeated consultations with all the members of the academic community, and not only, but also after a substantial treatment in my opinion in the Committee on Educational Affairs last week, this draft law is now coming to a debate and a vote in plenary. First of all, I think it is mutually acceptable that education is the driving force for social and cultural development, as it produces cognitive, cultural and also economic benefits at a high level. The fulfilment of these objectives, of course, requires the existence and functioning of a structured educational system based on the principles of democracy, social equality and solidarity towards the enhancement of quality of life and social well-being. We believe that this legislation is moving in this direction, with the aim of ensuring the fulfilment of the ERC mission, the strengthening of research, but also of course the uninterrupted access to education for all citizens. It incorporates requests from a large part of the academic community, namely those directly involved and keeps the foundations and research alive. It clarifies the need for a coordinated institutional change in the field of higher education in order to address the malfunctions resulting from previous legislative interventions. Educational reforms, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that they are one of the most important and deepest political risks. Indeed, the bill manages the planned changes in political and social terms in the difficult economic and social conditions experienced by the country. More specifically, we cannot overlook the current conditions in the HEIs, which are developing at many different speeds, maintaining and replenishing regional disparities, as this is particularly reflected in the operation of postgraduate programmes. The question of a direct response is also the malfunctioning of established hierarchies and interest groups within the EITs, as they distort the public character of the institutions and highlight the need to increase transparency at administrative level. At the same time, the promotion of the single area of higher education and research is absolutely essential in order to resolve chronic issues such as geographical isolation of individual units, fragmentation and overlapping of academic and research activities, limited use of research results and the lack of staff in HEIs and research centres, as well as the expatriation of young scientists. In these circumstances, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is a well-processed intervention in the organization of the HEIs. It outlines the reforms needed to deal with the existing problems, recognises, respects and extends the democratic nature of higher education, institutionalizes an effective and open way to society at the same time. At the same time, it provides for the regulation of operational issues, it strengthens the self-government despite what is said, for the first time, by giving such a wide range of powers to the institutions' internal regulation and to the first level of decision-making, namely, in the field, so that there is greater flexibility in institutions. It seeks a closer link between education and research, while striving to streamline the framework for the operation of postgraduate studies, while facilitating free access to them. More specifically, with a view to the academic upgrading and enhancement of the strategic role of HEIs and research centres, as well as to extroversion, it creates the regional academic councils of higher education and research, with more degrees of independence from the institution councils, which have failed to achieve the purpose for which they were set up. They have as their task the promotion of higher education and research in relation to the research and development policy of each institution and of each region, and hence also of local societies. With regard to postgraduate programmes, academicity and access to all students meeting academic criteria shall be guaranteed, irrespective of their financial situation. In this context, limitations are made so that the fee paid by students can be within reasonable limits, while taking into account income criteria, by enforcing the right to receive free of charge in postgraduate courses and for low-income candidates. At the same time, it is positively and with a commitment to an increased grant from the Ministry, the operation of reliable postgraduate programs that operate without students' fees, such as the National Technical University, the University of Ioannina and the Panteion University, while the recruitment of new scientists is provided for as an absolute priority in vacancies for the first time. A solution is finally given to a long-term problem relating to the professional rights of graduates of TEI, and provision is made for the introduction of a uniform and undivided postgraduate degree provided by the five-year curriculum, which is a recognition of additional academic and rating qualifications to the graduates of these schools or departments. A particular and important extrovertal innovation is the strengthening of post-training through the creation of two-year vocational education and training programmes for graduates of the ESDP, within the EITs, which will provide level 5 diplomas of the National and European Qualifications Framework. The second basic axis of the bill is the strengthening of the representativeness of the administrative bodies, the consolidation of the democracy and pluralism of the universities, in order to improve and fulfil their academic and social role, according to the tradition of Greek universities since post-Multuralism, and specifically the division of 1982. More specifically, this bill provides for the election of counter-regulators to take place with a separate ballot and a one-stay, which, despite what is said, opposes the partisan democracy and the pre-determined undetermined unsolved policy blocking "the winner takes it all", ensuring the necessary conditions for consensus, consensus and final democracy. The roles and responsibilities of the regulators are defined and the delegation to the assembly of all schools is restored. All members of the academic community are expected to participate in the multi-faceted management bodies, including students, which is causing allergy to the opposition, but also to BSE, according to statements made by the committee. Both forget about the fact that it was the student trade unions of the LAG and the PSP who were closely embraced by the management system, ensuring benefits, exchanges and careers. It restates the academic asylum, which the previous law had abolished, but which, with its abolition, has not solved any problem at all, especially that of infringement, a multi-dimensional phenomenon, which requires a multi-dimensional approach, which is explained in detail by Professor Paradulopoulos - I imagine will be able to reposition - which is the head of a working group involving pre-regions and different ministries, in order to be able to formulate the relevant response framework. A significant dimension of the bill is also the arrangements for making more efficient use of the available resources for SNEs in matters of day-to-day operation. It is codified and updated that the institutional framework of the EITs and Research Centres and issues relating to their budgets are regulated, taking into account that their role has changed on a European and global scale over the past 20 years. Our country has high quality research potential and work, with participation in international research programmes. However, its exploitation is characterised by shortcomings leading to Brain drain, namely the migration of new scientists to the more developed research countries. This legislative initiative therefore aims to modernise the unclear institutional framework in order to be able to absorb the resources of the NRP, the EIAEC, and to attract other competitive funds. The PPE are not subsidised by the state budget, but they receive funds from the public investment programme, from funding, other donations and donations from natural and legal persons, as well as from the European Commission and international organisations. The operating framework must therefore be clear, based on the basic principles of public accounting, but adapted to the management needs of the research programmes, and it is very important that the monitoring framework for these research programmes is also in place. They are included in the bill and many other individual arrangements. I shall refer only to the subject of conduct, its inclusion in qualifications, which abolishes an anachronistic provision of 1979 with a punishable anti-educational character. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill under discussion is a time when the government's education policy has been reached. However, there have so far been a series of well-structured actions, which are complementary and illustrate the way we intend to read. I mention, for example, that at higher education and research level, five hundred positions have already been published for new LAG members in HEIs and TEIs and another five hundred are expected for 2018. It changed and strengthened the framework for funding scholarships for undergraduate, candidate doctors, postdoctors and research teams, totalling EUR 203 million for the next four years. At the same time, the institution of the academic scholar was established and funded for young scientists who want to gain teaching experience in the HEIs with EUR 42 million funds and three thousand seven hundred beneficiaries. Particularly important are the interventions planned and already implemented for higher education under the NSRF 2014-2020 with the allocation of EUR 175 million to support both researchers and students of all levels, EUR 84 million for the practical exercise of students, i.e. an overall cost of EUR 270 million. And here it is worth noting that almost all of the beneficiaries of the ESRB are young scientists and researchers, while their growth took place while maintaining high-level wages. The streamlining of the programme also led to an increase of 24% of the beneficiaries and an additional EUR 13 000 000 were provided. Ladies and gentlemen, the previous law, the 'Domadopoulou', which was passed by a large majority, in the context of a silent ideological agreement, which acted as an ideological agreement for the upcoming, destructive - in my opinion - confrontation of 2012, dealt with the maximum social opposition, has never been implemented and finally deviated, was aimed at the University of Management on the basis of a specific ideological agenda, which is facing knowledge and education as a commodity, university as business and students as customers. He tried to formulate market mechanisms for deregulation of functions and at the same time concentrated administrative structures, established bureaucracy, ideology of higher education - or at least tried - in a neoliberal direction and reduced democracy and transparency in institutions. We, with full consciousness and political aim, are fighting against the conversion of universities into businesses and the education of another agency, the cost of which will be regulated by the market and which will be borne by potential customers. Knowledge has been and will remain socially good and must not be linked to the purchasing power of everyone, as it has been in international reality, if in recent years in our country, as always late, the myth of private or private universities is very popular. And indeed, the bill stands against this neoliberal ideology for an education that is directed at the few and chosen and focuses on how universities, as academic institutions, operate on criteria relating to the right to knowledge, promote knowledge, evaluate academically, account socially, relate to human values, such as freedom, solidarity and equality, in order to be able to meet the current needs of a well-determined society. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing.]] And as a response I will be allowed to refer to a piece of the article that Alkis, the great university and teacher, published yesterday. It says, "In the circumstances, and taking into account the existing power correlations and open creditors' interventions, the draft law is governed by an open and democratic pedagogical vision, which restores the valueless, humanistic, humanistic and educational projections, creating terms of a left-hand footprint and reverses the obsolete - even though they are presented as modern - neoliberal ideologies of an educational and research system, which operates as market manipulation". I shall conclude, Mr President. "A footprint, however, which, in order to become hegemony, requires continuous enlargement and, above all, constant vigilance primarily of teachers, researchers, students and students, in order to become an estate of society and prevent any setbacks." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u14	Thank you, my colleague. Mrs Keramemos has the floor from the New Democracy. Here, Mrs. Kerameau, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u15	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are systematically talking about the public debate and the damage caused by the SYRIZA Government - ANEL over the last two and a half years in the field of the economy. The damage, however, is just as great, if not greater, in areas such as justice, security, media freedom, education and the restoration of damage will be much more difficult. Over the last two and a half years the government in the field of education has degraded the entire day's school, downgraded the digital school, abolished the evaluation, established an anti-constitutional system of selection of managers, deregulation of technical vocational education, renounced the ancient Greek secretariat. These are only some of the multiple wounds and now the damage extends to higher education. A draft law entered into this House shortly before the end of its work, in a week when Members are called upon to draw up other four draft legislation, with twenty articles that have never been put into public consultation. A bill to a large extent obsolete. The General Accounting Office of the State had information to assess only five of the total thirty-seven potential costs. A draft law, in which four main features can be attributed: regression, introvert, centralisation, over-regulation. Let us consider one, one of these designations. Firstly, regression: Academic asylum. Minister, I challenge you to run a test. Can you hear me, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u16	How can I not hear you? And I hear you and I see you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u17	I challenge you to run a test. You were until you were before an active university professor and therefore a potential dean. So you could well be in the position where you have to implement the asylum law. Therefore, if you are aware of the committing of a criminal offence, you must take decisions on what is happening: a slap, a felony or a felony. Because if it's a felony, you should call the authorities. If it is a slap or a flood, you should call the Deal Council, so that everyone can decide together if you are going to call the authorities. And I'm coming to the test now. Someone's stealing a cell phone at the university. You know, Minister, what crime is theft of a cell phone? You know?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u18	I won't answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u19	You're not answering me. The answer is "contingent". Because in general, it's a flood. But if the phone thieves are two, who were united to commit thefts, or if the thief is a person who commits thefts of habitually or professionally, then, Minister, the criminal act, the crime, becomes a felony. And that is why the authorities are automatically involved. Is it possible for you, Minister, as a dean - and any dean - to know these delicate legal discrimination? No, it's the answer. And it's not the dean's job to know them. So what will he do if he becomes aware of the committing of a criminal act? It will systematically convene the Proctor's Council, not least so that it does not have the responsibility to take the act itself arbitrarily. Until the rectangular council is convened, the act will have come to an end and the perpetrators will have escaped undisturbed. But also, with the participation of vice-presidents from separate lists and students, the rector is likely to agree, even too late, on a call from the authorities. That is why, Minister, as you have shown, the introduction of this discrimination between offences has only one purpose, the inactivation of the whole mechanism, the authorities never have to be called upon and the criminals of all kinds act undisturbed. Another asylum of ideas, Minister, which must of course be protected, and another asylum of criminals you legislate on. Our position is clear: the principle of self-determination for all criminal offences. Student representation. We have voted in favour of the representation of students in the administrative bodies on matters relating to them. However, I ask you, Minister, do you consider normal students to vote for the award of honorary doctor's, honest and honorary professor's titles to vote for the change of cognitive object in which a professor has been appointed or to decide to move a teacher from one section to another or to decide on the choice of a writing to be taught? You haven't answered us. Rector function. You are planning the election of two separate ballots and extremists. Minister, your objective for party control of the institutions is clear. Do you not realize that this will lead the institutions to inefficient divisions and that the management of the multi-faceted institutions will become impossible? Academic Councils of Higher Education and Research. You are establishing the so-called SNEs in each administrative district, an overlying structure of the institutions, with unclear structure and operation, with overlap of competences with other newly institutionalised structures, the Regional Research and Innovation Councils. Only the existence of these councils beyond and above the institutions and with representatives of the ministries, as members of them, affects the self-government of the institutions and may raise serious issues of unconstitutionality. Degradation of the IPPC, the Quality Assurance and Certification Authority in higher education. A new committee is set up for the evaluation of postgraduate programmes. From there, there is the significant deterioration of the IPPP, the independent authority, the subject of which is precisely the assessment. Introvert and foreignlanguage undergraduate programs. You insist, Minister, that these can be carried out exclusively in cooperation with the International University of Greece, and you are well aware that there is a relevant institutional framework. And I ask: why, Minister, do you not want all the institutions in the country to be able to carry out foreign-language programmes? Is it possible that all the institutions of the country should pass their foreign language programmes through a university, which has only nine teachers, with a limited range of cognitive objects? Students from abroad. You prohibit the award of a postgraduate degree to a student whose first-cycle qualification by a foreign institution has not been recognized by the IATP. Let's say it clearly. We invite the foreign student to attend a postgraduate in Greece to pay a tuition fee and shortly before he graduates, if the IOTAP has not recognized his first degree, we send him back without a degree. Do you really think, Minister, that a foreign student will come to our country with such a provision in force? I come to the third axis: concentration and overregulation. These characteristics are fully reflected in the arrangements for postgraduate courses. Enter a suffocating, excessively restrictive and bureaucratic framework for postgraduate programmes, which cancels the development perspective of institutions and programmes and condemns them in decline, if not in extinction. You said, Minister, many times both in the committee and in the media that you are introducing academic rules until the end. The truth, Minister, is that you are introducing ministerial rules until the end. For example, you give yourself the right to go back - listen, listen! - the decision of the consortium to set up a postgraduate program when you object to the school fee or to the operating costs of the postgraduate course. And you say in the draft law - I quote: 'In the event of referral, the Senate shall forward the decision of the Chamber to amend the recommendation, in accordance with the recommendations of the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs'. It's an interesting view of the self-employed. The management bodies of the university must comply with the Minister's will. With regard to teachers' remuneration, however, teachers should at least teach in a programme free of charge in order to be able to teach and be pitied by a second. Their total salary may not exceed 20% of the total regular earnings. It is clear that teachers will not have the incentive to spend so much time on postgraduate courses. In fact, postgraduate will lead to significant deterioration, if not devastated and closed. Yes, Minister, cases of immunity have been recorded and we should find a way to limit and eliminate them. But overregulation is not a solution. The involvement of the IPPC, the independent authority, could adopt on the basis of predetermined cases of immunity and arbitraryness. Minister, at the meetings of the committee responsible you have desperately tried to display a picture of a broad consensus on the promoted legislative initiative. Unfortunately, the hard reaction of the academic community does not need interpretation. She's talking alone. And the message is clear: Move alone in the opposite current. And it is particularly clear that after four meetings of the Committee on Formatic Affairs, following the condemnation of all the parties to the opposition, but also its numerous proposals and proposals by the institutions, you have not made any substantial change in the bill. And because you accused us of creating a dust from the outside, I will read you some of the university press releases. I stress, Minister, that they are extracts from press releases, not publications condemning the bill and requesting its withdrawal. University of the Aegean: “The draft law undermines and circumvents essential principles of operation of higher education institutions in the country. Refutes the vision, hope and academic development of universities, and we therefore consider it not to be a basis for discussion." I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Niki Kerameos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Economic University of Athens: "Any legalization of the draft law will produce disastrous results for the postgraduate studies of the Foundation". It's called the university. "Out of the thirty-six distinguished postgraduate degrees, a total of two thousand three hundred students, will only be able to continue their operation. Hundreds of postgraduate workers will lead to unemployment. Scholarships to candidate doctorates will be interrupted. The fleeing of scientists and teachers abroad will be intensified. The Senate urges the Ministry's leadership not to go any further towards legislating this draft law.' I'm presenting it for the Minutes. University of Macedonia: "The bill is brutally affecting the constitutionally regulated self-employed of the HEIs. The Senate unanimously asks for the draft law to be withdrawn.' I'm presenting it for the Minutes. The University of Athens Philosophy School - your university, Minister - speaks of the end of public and free higher education and calls on the academic community to react militarily to this prospect. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. Aristotle University of Thessaloniki: "The draft law is borne by exhaustive over-regulations of issues in a way that significantly affects the constitutionally regulated self-government of universities". I'm presenting it for the Minutes. University of Athens Law School: "Step of clear regression will contribute to further degradation of our country's HEIs. We ask for his immediate withdrawal." I'm presenting it for the Minutes. Alexandria TEI of Thessaloniki: "The draft law leads to the downgrading of education and the overall degradation and devaluation of the diplomas of HIIs. The Minister of Education is morally and politically accountable and will enroll in one of the most darkest pages in the history of Greek education.” The Alexandria TEI of Thessaloniki will appeal for the annulment of the law in the Council of State. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. The teaching and research staff, that is, our universities: "This is a new institutional framework, a product of ideological strife which returns universities to the practices and pathogens of the past". [[At this point, the Member, Niki Kerameos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I'm presenting it for the Minutes. The President-in-Office, the representative of all the universities in the country, told the Morphics Committee that he disagreed with all the main issues of the draft law outside the PPE. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. And I close, the Vice-President of the Committee on Budgets in an article in the newspaper 'THAT' says: 'Is it possible that the Presidents of all the universities of the country will agree for such a long time and that everyone will have such wrong views on all the essential academic issues that none of the proposals submitted as a meeting with the Minister of Education will be adopted?' I'm presenting it for the Minutes. I will stop here even though examples are too much. Ladies and gentlemen, last week I received an e-mail from a Greek university dean. Extremely disappointed by the bill, instead of commenting on the articles, he preferred to send me the text of a notary on the name of Stella Mandulindos. On account of the notary text the young children who leave our country who before they leave draw up a notarial proxy to their parents for the cases they leave behind. The title of the text: 'Plenipotentiary children'. So he writes the notary: "They are those children who will sooner or later be placed under the jurisdiction of the DU in consulates and embassies with more employees for the extra workload. These are those children who didn't make molotov, who respect a country that didn't respect them. It is those children who have received knowledge in dirty amphitheatres, unguarded universities, paper walls, posters, garbage and occupations, which the shined airports and Skype have not let the thrill manifest themselves, that the new reality will fill their hours, their youths and their years." This is the substance, ladies and gentlemen, and the bill that will be passed today and tomorrow by the government gives a serious impetus to Brain Drain, the scourge of modern Greece. Minister, I am sorry to say this, but you will remain in history as the Minister who has closed postgraduate courses, which has strengthened the Brain Drain, who has kicked out foreign students who have been educationally isolated from our country. This is the sad reality behind the regulations of this legislation. I will conclude by saying that we on the other hand will do our best to provide incentives and opportunities for these children to stay in the country and look for the best future they dream of, but also to return the young people who have already left. Investment in education will be a catalyst in this effort, but also in our country's exit from the crisis in general. I'm hanging up, ladies and gentlemen. There are two different worlds here today, two different worlds for the Greek university of the 21st century. You want institutions insect, without foreign-language programs, with no foreign students, with natural cellulite elections to steal it, you want the universities of lawlessness, you think that for any incidents of violence that are caused by the absence of a Roman student movement, you want institutions of ministries, you want the Senate to correct its decisions on the basis of the Minister's suggestions. We, Minister, want universities freely, autonomously and autonomously, universities extremist, with foreign languages that will attract foreign students, universities and research centres linked to the production process, universities, programmes and teachers, which will be strictly assessed by a strong independent authority, universities that will cooperate and compete with the best internationally and, yes, we want non-state universities established under strict terms and conditions. Ladies and gentlemen, our vision is to make our country a regional higher education centre, a lighthouse in southern Europe, attracting students from all over the world. To this end, we will continue to fight with all our forces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u20	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos, special speaker of the Democratic Association, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u21	Mr President, could I just make a clarification for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u22	You're welcome, Minister. Mr. Constantopoulos, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u23	I say that for the rest of the speakers. Because there have been various changes, they should be informed and not make the same speeches they have had for a week. Take them away. Here's to the paperwork.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u24	Substantial changes, Minister, not a party and a perfection.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u25	It's not a party and a perfection. It's substantial changes. I tell you not to do the same speeches. It's boring, too. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Let me finish. Easy! We've got two days. Don't run out of the first.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u26	Postgraduate people change them? Do you change the languages?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u27	The second is to make it clear that there are more than thirty-five higher education institutions in our country. A number of convention decisions have been heard. The rest were schools, jewelry, etc. Don't mess with it. The most serious thing, however, is that, in fact, the chairman of the Board of Education of Thessaloniki, Mr. Kogoulis, made a statement on June 6th - I think of the Council - and says what Mrs. Kerame said a moment ago: "The Minister of Education obviously, by carrying out a drafted political ideology plan, is moral and politically accountable and will be enrolling as an expressor of degressive policy - notice...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u28	If there's anything the Minister wants to complete, he'll say it in his speech. Keep the procedures in place.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u29	If you let me go, I'd be done. But listen to me. Here's what you want me to tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u30	You'll talk later!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u31	Because you say so, we have to hear it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u32	Mr. Comrade, let's finish and we'll come to an agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u33	Mr President, should the rapporteurs not finish first and then speak to the Minister? Won't he talk later?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u34	I'll make my comment, too. It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u35	Does he have to make any comment? I don't get it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u36	If you let me go, I'd be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u37	I can handle everything, but it's all right. There are rules. Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u38	But listen. I want to tell you the Minister will be politically accountable...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u39	There are rules!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u40	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u41	Mr. Economou, please. Let it end. Mr. Georgioda, will you let me run the debate? Stop it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u42	...(not heard) Now, why are you protesting? Against whom? Can we continue? Please! Minister, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u43	As regards the fact that the Minister will be politically accountable and will register as an expressioner of delusional politics one of the most darkest pages in the history of Greek education...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u44	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u45	That's right, isn't it? I would therefore like every Member of this Parliament to think that the darkening periods of Greek education are behind us. [[Noise in the Chamber]] [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Don't bounce in periods of dictatorship...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u46	Mr. Economou, please, let me run the debate! Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u47	I say that political controversy must also have limits. When the limits are broken and we say that the darkest times are coming, it is a very serious matter and I ask all of us to be very careful.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u48	Deal. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Please! Minister, with all due respect to you, we must come to an agreement. You'll hear from the speakers a lot and stuff. It is not possible to comment on every speech. Firstly, we will never finish and secondly, it is not legalised parliamentaryly. It is not possible to comment. Keep the comments, which may be interesting for the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u49	The speaker didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u50	I understand. Sounds like irritating speeches. It is not possible to answer all of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u51	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order. I won't be late.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u52	No, Mr. Theocharopoulos. Mr Constantopoulos has the floor. Let me run the conversation. Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u53	Mr President, every time the Minister takes the floor, Parliamentary representatives will also be given the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u54	Are we going with persuasiveness and threats now? It's not possible! We're not having a convincing conversation. Please! I think what I had to do as president, I did.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u55	Mr President, the Rules of Procedure say that when the Minister is speaking, the parliamentary representative is then entitled to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u56	Mr. Theocharopoulos, what I had to do as President was done. I covered for you. Sit down, please! Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u57	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today is the draft law on the organisation and functioning of higher education, as well as rules on research and other provisions. And I recall, ladies and gentlemen, your positions in the House in 2012 and indeed from officials of the current government. You said at the time: "Is it possible for the government to legislate in the summer?" Today these voices are silent. There were, of course, the protests by the operators at the hearing of the bodies, which confirmed our objections to the procedure you followed. The government is advertising today a dialogue on education and even since September 2015. It is, in fact, a dialogue that has been essentially pretext from the outset. Gentlemen, this account collapsed. This account was basically a melting candy. The truth about the dialogue, which in 2015 you said was undermined by ministries and micro-party purposes, is that you undermined it yourself, gentlemen of the government. We have noted from the outset that this dialogue, as I said before, was a pretext. You announced him as a panacea of participation and consultation. You used him as a communal trick and canceled him of course in practice. I would remind you that you also announced, with our agreement, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on all levels of education, because it was really necessary to cost education and it was a request for all of us. We were also involved in this process. In fact, this committee was presented by the Prime Minister himself. But her luck's been missing ever since! However, the findings of this committee today would be extremely useful. So there was no costing for education. This is one of the main reasons why education today is facing unpleasant surprises. Ladies and gentlemen, the government and the Minister are today taking initiatives in the field of education that cancel areas and innovations that were voted for in the House. However, we are finally inviting you to stop this legislative tactic of leakage, half-costs, surprises, unadulterated promises. Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that all major radical and progressive changes in education have taken place for PASOK days. They have the seal of the PASOK governments. We were the ones who believed and realised equal opportunities in education, the strengthening of public free education, equal access to universities. It is no coincidence that Law 1268/1982 and Law 4009/2011 are two laws, which have effectively set up an administrative framework of self-sufficiency and economic self-reliance in the HEIs. The needs of education, its connection to the labour market, the concerns of the new generation and supported a public university which was competitive and liberated. We supported the operation and upgrading of the TEIs and acted by the following laws, Law No 1404/1983 and Law No 2916/2001. For us, the Democratic Integration, the educational system must be a lever for the country's development. Ladies and gentlemen, we all have to build a new productive model for getting out of the crisis. The loan has been finished and what is important is that the new generation stays in the country, that we give new jobs, that we finally stop Brain Drain, that the new generation is migrated abroad. So higher education needs support and support, and - what else? - Leaving forward in order to upgrade. Ladies and gentlemen, we must liberalise public higher education from today, such as its tight hug with the state, its dysfunctional framework for its administration and operation, the lack of interconnection of education with the market, with growth in the economy, family rule, the collective strife that serves interests - I would say - 'days', reduced performances in quality, excellence, innovation and research. So, ladies and gentlemen, this must first of all be done - what? - liberation of the public university and of the higher education institutions. It is, of course, a central national issue concerning the future of the country and we must finally take a position on it. Our position is clear, distinct and leaves our mark in the public debate: public university, administrative self-government and financially self-evident, a public university liberated and competitive. However, finding today is one: the current government does not believe in the open public good of education. He believes in what? He believes in the state of state. It creates a completely suffocating regulatory framework. It favours its own academic and trade unions. He makes every effort to create excellence and progress. It wants an educational system of massification and equilibrium downwards in the name - allegedly - of equality. It is the left card, however, which creates its own asylum, an asylum for an unfulfilled account, a story that has to do with the Thessaloniki programme, the proud negotiation that collapses daily from the statements of those who made it with the signature of new memoranda. Gentlemen of government, this is the political asylum of your false account! His misdemeanor is a felony. And for that, I believe - you will soon apologise not to us, but to the Greek people. Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that Law 1268/1982 is the law which has changed the course of higher education. Replaced Law 5343/1932, which became particularly resilient and lasted fifty years. Let us not forget that this law bears the signature of George Papandreou. And with Law No 1368/1982, in particular, university asylum was guaranteed, research and postgraduate studies were abolished, the headquarters which was requested for all of us at that time. The participation of students was established, the institutional education board was established. Then, of course, a number of legislative initiatives were taken by the Universal Government in 1990 for the participation of students and students in the 2083/1992 and n.3549/2007. However, ladies and gentlemen, the major changes and modern innovations are included in Law 4009/2011, which was passed by two hundred and fifty-five Members. I should like to say to Mrs Jufi that she was not voted on by two parties, she was voted on by two hundred and fifty-five Members who belonged to more parties. This law defined academic freedom, redefined the regulatory framework of the AITs, the management bodies of the AITs were elected after an international invitation. Today your effort is a single and targeted one: Destruct this law as a whole - that was your bet - a law that only needed legal improvements and some adjustments. Also, your other goal is to pass to oblivion the great reformal change in 1982. Our disagreement is based right here, in the philosophy of the draft law we are discussing. That is why we are voting against him in the first place. Ladies and gentlemen, the upgrading of the quality of secondary education does not come back with the reintroduction of the concept of asylum in previous times, the replacement of the councils by decorative IAEA, with an undetermined composition, with the ability of the Minister to establish or abolish sections, schools and IAEA, without the prior opinion of anyone, the strengthening of partyism in universities, by increasing student participation in the administration of universities, the election of one-sided management bodies from other categories of staff, other than members of the IAEA, the election of the vice-presidents by separate from that of the electorate, with a substantial abolition of electronic voting, the extensive limitations, the bureaucratic procedures of postgraduate, the substantial abolition of evaluation by the ADI, I would say, an institutional framework for the EPP, which adds bureaucracy to their functioning and particularly for the management of resources. You were told by the institutions too, but you ignored them, Minister. Unfortunately, gentlemen of the government, you did not understand the jewels of the time, the jewels of the times. In Greek universities and research centres there is the key to development, the great opportunity for the great productive reconstruction needed by the country, which of course will be our way out of the crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to the issue of asylum. We stressed, Minister, that for us, the Democratic Alliance, the university is a free movement of ideas. We must not allow them to operate in universities of lawlessness. We have proposed that you be included in the regulation and the case of the crimes, as was the case. We haven't heard. We have stressed that there are offences in university spaces and we must not wait for the Rector's Council meeting to intervene, because you know very well, Minister, that the authorities will never intervene. Why? Because the Dean Council will never meet. Student participation: we naturally support the right to participate and to express an opinion from them. We do not disagree in voting on matters which concern them, as is, of course, student care. But, Minister, students can't co-administer. Postgraduate: Here, Minister, our position is clear. We also supported the committee's equal access to postgraduate diplomas, without any financial exclusion. We said we wanted the excellent and not the financially sound. We are in favour of the quota for free graduates and scholarships for economically weaker students. The postgraduate, however, with their tuition, cannot be a feeder account for the HEIs, for the universities. The approval, costing, evaluation and certification of postgraduate students have been said - and we insist - that it should be the sole responsibility of the PPP. So what do we say? Not in the state. It cannot be decided by the Minister and by the committee designated by him. These are PPP issues. Besides, Minister, it's the last signature of the Minister. The fact is, of course, that we say 'no' to stateism. In Article 46, you are introducing, Minister, the fifth year as a master for five-year-old schools. At the same time, however, you deprive yourself, as I told you in the committee, of the possibility for graduates to use the master for their wage development. That is why, at the second reading of the bill, I said that it is an intangible title. This is also confirmed by the fact that the political schools have announced it. Minister, you said you would accept the permanent request of the five-year-old school schools to facilitate the process of awarding professional rights and the graduates of the TEI, which has been pending for many years. So what do we do? Neither does one result, nor is the other, because what is provided for in the bill is the adoption of a Presidential Decree on Qualifications and not, of course, on the professional rights of TEIs. Unfortunately, your regulation does not solve the problem. We must of course take out the graduates of the TEIs from the hostage, in which they have been in 30 years' time and on our own responsibility. They must finally be awarded the professional rights that the state, Minister, owes them. Please accept the proposal from the ETUC that gives a solution to the problem of professional rights. We have also tabled an amendment to involve the EUTEM in the process of awarding professional rights. I think you should make it acceptable. As for the issues of primary and secondary education provided in the bill, these, Minister, have never been consulted so that those responsible have been given an opinion. And I would actually say that it was within the twenty amendments that were made to articles without any consultation of course. Minister, you must respect the dialogue that you have already announced. You need to stop legislating with surprises, because there are issues in these articles that we and we have had a positive view of their resolution, such as extending the leave of deputys to unpleasant diseases to be combined with the right to their secondment, the provision for registration of students of small and medium-sized enterprises in private schools, the issues of school holidays for Muslim students, to which you could have our consent, if there had been dialogue and consultation, as I have said. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill does not give any prospect of internationalisation of the HEIs, which, for all of us, I believe was a request. It does not strengthen autonomy and self-interest. He is not talking anywhere about interconnecting higher education with economic and development. It does not open up any modern, innovative, promoted, progressive theme. And at the same time it plays with the favorite issues of so-called progressiveity: unlimited asylum, the auction of announcements for student participation in student procedures and pro-collegiate forecasts for supposedly postgraduate free. So instead, Minister, to discuss the best institutions in tomorrow, we are discussing the pathogens of yesterday. We, the Democratic Reconciliation, support public education at all levels with our proposals and our positions. We invest in knowledge. We are redesigning the country with boldness and determination for extrovert universities, assessed, transparently and accountablely. Minister, on your way, we've shown him to you, follow him. That's the solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Antony Gregos, special speaker of the Golden Dawn, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. During the committees I had asked the Minister on several occasions whether other amendments would be accepted and whether other amendments would be tabled. Of course, she didn't answer me now either. And of course we have seen the phenomenon of amendments being tabled. I think that one of these amendments cancels some articles in the bill you just voted on the day before yesterday. This procedure refers, I would say, to some kind of blackmail by the government. It is a very important bill concerning us, our children, workers, education workers, and hence the future of the country and all the citizens. We have commented on the articles in detail at committee meetings, on the grounds that we will also be voting at the end of the procedure. The draft is composed of two parts, the first and the largest, of which, from Articles 1 to 68, only relates to higher education, and the second relates to secondly to research, as well as to other provisions on primary and secondary education and to foreign schools, Articles 70 to 88. This bill, despite the fact that it relates to the crown of education, i.e. higher education, comes, as most, with poor consultation - we have told the committees - in the middle of the year, with a number of provisions that can be characterised by photographic to rousfetology in many cases. It would be expected that the issue of higher education would gather broad and extensive dialogue across the range of public life: teachers, institutions, universities, parties, etc. On the other hand, the provisions which were either put forward to serve certain interests in the context of the HEIs were either made in order not to be affected, but ultimately to change nothing to what is called free public education, which of course does not exist, does not exist. At a time when everyone points out that the situation at the HEIs has reached the unprecedented, both in terms of benefits that are minimum because of budget under-financing, as well as in terms of climate change, which refers to an uncomplicated country, since everyone can do what they want without consistency, the bill comes to redeal the deck safely, proposing new posts, allowances and appointments in the host countries and leaving the essence of the problem, namely absolute immunity, economic aeronism, intact defiance of the Greek universities abroad, as if nothing were happening. We are talking about direct and indirect party control at universities and at all educational institutions and, of course, at all levels. First and very basic prerogatives: We are talking about the most infamous asylum, asylum only for the Left, asylum for sick ideologies, such as multiculturalism, for ideas that human life is worthless, if the other person has a national conscience and states nationalist, for example, ideas according to which some people must crack down on those who consider fascists, without telling anyone, ideas that smuggling is a necessary economic transaction that promotes the economy, ideas that if you are not a left-handed, listener, anti-factor must not exist, ideas that the Greek flag is a simple cloth that burns it is a struggle, ideas that students must deal with with perfect party orders and unwitting and useless votes, ideas that the use of drugs is a means of bio-engineering and necessary for citizens' well-being in institutions that are used to produce spaces of art, narcotic property, etc. These and other similar ideas defend the so-called university asylum, which I do not know if it applies to other countries, at least in this way. This shameful measure of so-called asylum causes the wrath of all healthy thoughtful citizens of this so-called democratic country. Of course, all the above things have been happening for many years and will continue to happen for many years if it is not immediately abolished. The same happened in previous times when the country's rule was PASOK and New Democracy. The same things we saw. In Article 3, under the hypocritical title: "Academic freedoms", in just two paragraphs completely vague and unqualified, the well-known poem of freedom of expression and of movement of ideas, of safeguarding democratic values, of academic freedoms and of protection of the right of knowledge is referred to, but is not even attempted to clarify how this will be done, in particular, the question of the intervention of public power in premises of the TEI, which is an obvious acquis of all universities worldwide. The draftsman of the bill, inspired by the logic of defending the rights of hoodiers, who are privileged interlocutors and even ministers, restricts the police's self-determination only in cases of crimes against life, that is to say in 10% of the criminal offences of the Criminal Code, leaving out any other anti-social crimes, be they organized groups or individuals. Thus, for crimes such as the felony of criminals, arsonism, physical injuries, kidnappings, illegal violence, sexual dignity, childbirth, prostitution, thefting, embezzling, embezzlements and dozens of other acts in which the perpetrator normally follows the process of arrest, typing and referral to the prosecutor, in order to get to the door forty or eight hours at most from the execution of the act, to asylum not only can escape it without anyone to prevent it, but it can commit exactly what it wants, because the famous disciplinary board has not taken a decision. You have spoken to us, Minister, in the committees for a number of working parties, which will be set up for this reason. Is it possible for these people you're saying that they will send these teams to deal with these criminals? In fact, in the completely vague way that article is formulated, no attempt is made to take a decision. And given that this council is multi-faceted and discomfortful, it is absolutely certain that it will never be able to meet, nor will it give instructions for intervention and, if it gives it, it will be too late and since all the traces of the self-determinations that have been committed, they will have disappeared along with their perpetrators and accomplices. It is therefore obvious that the left-wing authors of this abomination achieve exactly what they want, namely the impunity within the EHS for any criminal element, which they lawfully suffer, cover and deliver clean to society. Even in this area is there a full association of the forces of the so-called democratic arch, and that is why the ordinary citizen has always had one question: why did the governments of New Democracy, PASOK, SYRIZA support such situations, and why did most of the leaders and teachers tolerate such situations? Who is it that such party armies, known as 'invasion orders', operate for so many years within and outside educational institutions? The answer is known: It affects the parties of the so-called democratic arch and the interests they serve. After all, it is well known that known criminals who act within them have immunity and support from government officials, often for reasons of affinity. With a simple search on the Internet many questions are solved and of course it is very easy to identify the perpetrators and in general those who are sewing the premises of the educational institutions. It is a tragic situation if we compare it to similar foreign institutions. Here too, to mention the tragic situation in the homes of students throughout the country - we have tabled many questions on this issue - at least as far as the facilities are concerned. The good thing, however, is that under these circumstances educational institutions are making remarkable scientists who, unfortunately, because of the economic crisis that some people are applying, fleeing abroad and, unfortunately, are staying there, they are family there, which is where they provide valuable services. Of course we will not leave the future of our children and the future of our country in your own hands. In the committees, the Minister referred to almost all of you - the concept of democracy. Let us once again say that you are democrats whenever it suits you and it suits you. In other cases you act like communists. Even within Parliament, the Constitution is being destroyed, anti-constitutional measures are being voted, there is the so-called immunity - not for the Members of the Golden Dawn - there are positions of Vice-Presidents for each party except for the third political party, referendums never take place, but they can be done, they can change the people's mandate, always by democratic procedures. The most tragic of the days is that Cyprus, in order to restore democracy, lies a long way away. I am very often informing friends of the race because I am a member of the committee responsible, but also foreigners with whom we have contact, about what is going on in our home country, because they really think that in this country there is a democracy. They've been left, it looks, in other times. We have denounced many times, almost all bills, the creation of a party army by the government, as your predecessors did. The same goes for in this bill as for full party control in the field of educational institutions. We have also mentioned the most important issue of asylum in the committees and we have clear positions with which I think everyone agrees and I speak for the Greek people. But we want to see here and the position of ANELs on Article 3. We say: immediate abolition of asylum and party resignations. Immediate intervention of Special Police Forces, when extensive incidents occur, because the action of the Delta Group was really catalytic, which you abolished for good reason. An ideal way of working was by military schools, in which there are no party campus and so on. Of course, to say here that asylum is just for the Left. Anyone who expresses something else falls victim to beatings, pre-collapsings and insults by known hoodmen - cranders acting within educational institutions. We will certainly soon see such incidents again with criminal acts of all kinds, culminating in the burning of our national symbol from the well-known scumbags. I say 'know-how' because, indeed, they are well-known. We know who they are, we know where they live, we know everything, and you just cover them up, as we have said many times. You spoke, Minister, about these special working groups and about the monitoring of infringements and you are asking for assistance. Really, you're going to charge that responsibility to these people and you're going to be the final manager, yes or no? Let's see how these groups are going to work, because rape, drug trafficking, arms trafficking, as appropriate, whenever these people are judging. I want to ask you a question. You say that asylum is an asylum of ideas. You mean our own ideas, too? Can we have such a right of asylum within universities? Of course I do not expect you to respond, because of course you are not democrats.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u60	They've been convicted of humanity.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u61	You have been convicted - and quite rightly - of another era, some of the fossils that are trying to survive. You know very well that Golden Dawn is the third political force with continuous upward trends. We have the support of the Greek people. We are constantly receiving people's orders, and that is why we are so strong. We have a lot of students and teachers who have the same ideas as us. Thank God. Do not forget that we represent 10% of the Greek people. Minister, I repeat: do you think you can defend the dissemination of our ideas too? The question of course I do so to expose you. It is to prove to the people, who hears us, that you are democrats whenever it suits you. Less are the articles that we could agree with you, such as Article 74 and I am not talking about the entire article, but about paragraph 4 concerning the introduction of students from the general and professional high schools of the islands of Lesbos, Chios, Oinousses and Fishes who participated in the universal examinations of the school year 2016-2017, due to the earthquake that affected these regions in June. We agree with the provision of Article 71, which provides for the registration of disabled pupils under the same conditions and conditions as in public schools. With regard to the participation of students at the Open University and because of their large number - it is about forty-two thousand - and the characteristics, in particular, of these people, age, experience, vocational training, that would be a good thing for them to make a more substantial contribution to the functioning of the institutions. In most we are vertical and absolutely toward you and to the way you are legislating. The biggest problem with the graduates of educational institutions is, of course, the range of unemployment, which is growing daily, especially in these ages and in all specialties. Of course, we do not believe the distorted evidence of a fall in unemployment, and I mean the ruthless forms of work, undeclared work and all that. You are even changing the way in which lifelong learning centres operate, with Article 48, with doubtful results for participants in them. And I am talking about paragraph 11, where it is clearly stated that the resources of the centre are revenue from the trainees. Once again in the bill, there is talk of student charges, or tuition fees. We have stressed that this is decriminable and, in addition, that every citizen should be given free access to the programmes of these centres within the social state. It seems, however, that the saying of Socrates is being taught, which was also the essence of these centres for the continuing training of our fellow citizens, is being replaced in terms of a private economy. Moreover, anyone who wants to continue to train or broaden their horizons should pay a price, with the immediate consequence that many of our fellow citizens who do not have this possibility will be excluded. I should like to add that these centres in the past have contributed to the development of local societies and their reform, as they have enabled citizens to have different jobs. These programmes were adapted to develop the persons and skills of the participants and to promote the economic, social and cultural image of the region. In conclusion, I should like to say this: morbid and ill minds that are dispersing the poison of 'culture' at all levels of education - and that is why it is necessary to participate actively in it, particularly through the parents and guardians' associations and the control of the curriculum - must not be accepted. For these reasons, we Greeks united against everything that hurts ideas, values and acquired, against this government. You can't fix anything in education. You're probably ruining work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, following the conclusion of the speech and the fourth special speaker, as we had heard, the list of speakers is closed. Sixty-four colleagues have been registered. Now, as we have decided, we will discuss the objection of unconstitutionality that has been tabled. I read it to you: 'Mr President, I object to constitutionality on the basis of Rule 100 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. I support the opinion that Articles 44(3) and 32(6) and (7) of the draft law of the Ministry of Education conflict with Article 16(5)(a) of the Constitution. Male Loverde Deputy in Athens, Democratic Co-responsibility." Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Loverdos raises objections to constitutionality and calls for the House to give its opinion. We shall therefore apply paragraph 2 of Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure. They have the right to speak the speech, the vice versa, the chairmen of the parliamentary groups or the parliamentary representatives and the relevant ministers, each for five minutes of the hour. My colleague, Mr Loverdus, has the floor as sayings.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u63	Mr President, when this draft law is passed tomorrow, Mr Gavroglou will be the first Greek politician to have opened not only the ferry but also the portal of St. Romanos, so that the area of higher education from bureaucracy, from lawlessness, from backwardness, but also from anachronism will be salted. The dialogue in the Committee on Morphic Affairs, but also today with the suggestions to date and with those that will follow, has set out the last examples that verify my reasoning. The reinstatement of asylum in the previous context and the abandonment of higher institutions in the hands of illegality, paleotropic co-operation, bureaucracy in administration, regional councils of black academic calamity and the new "black holes" in quality are the achievements of the Minister. And one more thing related to Article 16 of the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, I claim that the self-employed of the higher education institutions is being violated in terms of evaluation and postgraduate. More specifically, they are in a constitutional state, on the basis of Article 16(5)(a) of the Constitution, Articles 44(3) et seq. and 32(8) of the draft law and Article 32(6) and (7) of the draft law. On the basis of these two Articles, the PPP, the Assessment and Certification Authority shall be limited to Article 44 and Article 32(8) and shall be fully sidelined with Article 32(6) and (7). How is that possible? At the hearing of the bodies, the head of the Certification and Evaluation Authority, Mrs Paisidou, spoke of provisions, particularly in Article 44, which take us out of the European area concerned and we support these arguments with regard to the Constitution, today, in Parliament's plenary session. How, in particular, is the Constitution being violated? However, with the establishment of organizing bodies: First, an internal and external evaluation committee, i.e. an evaluation board that the Minister himself formerly called a "assessment of best friends" in a speech on similar schemes at the UCLAF at a scientific conference. I don't like it, but it's his. Mr. Gabroglou likes it. Mr. Gabroglou liked it. Through this Article 44 Committee, the Independent Authority for Assessment and Certification of Higher Education Institutions is to be displaced from its role. And secondly, this is an example of a ministerial committee set up by Article 32(6) and (7), which will assess certain criteria to authorize - listen! - the Minister, for the purpose of operating postgraduate courses. But he is not allowed, ladies and gentlemen, by the Minister to do so, because Article 16(5)(a) of the Constitution does not permit it. We do not have - unfortunately, I would say - the case law of the Council of State on this. His last decision, relating to postgraduate diplomas, Decision 2411/2012, related to the constitutionality of imposing what we say postgraduate fees or, in the collective, postgraduate tuition fees, which the Council of State considered to be constitutionally acceptable. We, as legislator, need to develop our own constitutional considerations. We of the Democratic Association claim that the Minister with these two specific provisions violates the self-interest of universities which the Constitution requires is complete. And I draw attention to colleagues from the other parties and, above all, the majority, who will speak on the following point: I do not claim that the Minister has the power to get back is unconstitutional. That's a political slip. But the Constitution leaves it open with the formalities it has. On the contrary, I claim that the House does not have the opportunity - and of course the Minister proposes it to the House - to remove, whether in favour or in favour of unreserved bodies, the powers which institutional development itself has transferred to independent principles in the interests of the protection of the quality of education and the principle of non-discrimination. I repeat, in order not to give answers to the wrong question: I am not saying that the Minister cannot get that back. He badly makes it take responsibility to refer it back, as his order describes it. But that does not involve a constitutional issue. A constitutional issue is to take back responsibilities that administrative development, institutional development and educational development have characterised as responsibilities to be exercised by an independent authority. The views, in other words, ladies and gentlemen, which took on the self-government of higher education institutions referred to in Article 16(5)(a) of the Constitution on specific subjects, set up a self-government acquis which does not allow institutional retreat in favour of the Minister - Article 32(6) and (7) - and non-binding bodies such as the committee established by Article 32(7) or bodies which cannot achieve this objective and this role in terms of the principle of non-discrimination. And for thirty seconds I would like Members who have not had the opportunity to see the committee thoroughly - an Article 32(7) instrument - to say this: ladies and gentlemen, this is a nine-member committee, which, however you see it, either the Minister has it or all the Minister has it. And if the second version of my opinion is not excessive, hold the first. The nine members are the Minister. They are three experts, the Secretary General and the Director General of his Ministry, who is responsible for higher education. These five will be offered to him to tell us whether or not he will be given permission for a postgraduate course. Ladies and gentlemen, the dip in the past is too strong. Anachronism is visible. I would ask the members of the National Representation at least to accept this objection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Nikolaos Paraskeviopoulos has the floor as an adversary.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. This is actually two objections. One relates to evaluation and the other concerns the referral of a number of decisions by the Minister to the university, which, in the opinion of Mr Loverdos, seems to affect the self-government of universities. Firstly, as far as the question of the evaluation of universities is concerned, which, of course, is also the responsibility of the ADI, I would say that first of all, evaluation is an issue which does not fall within the regulatory scope of the Constitution, that is, the Constitution itself does not stipulate how the evaluation is carried out. This means that the way, the guarantees of evaluation, will be defined by the legislator on the basis of its own judgement, that is, on the basis of a law that will be created. In this case of the draft law, which is being discussed at the moment, an internal and external evaluation procedure is provided for by a six-member scientific advisory committee. In so far as there is no constitutionally specific method of evaluation, it is legitimate to set up an additional evaluation body. This body, which is currently being introduced, does not automatically dismantle any other legislation which exists, but only if it happens to regulate the very same subject in a different way or if it explicitly abolishes an earlier regulation, which is not the case here. Basically, what is being set up here is an additional evaluation procedure and I think that everyone in this House is in favour of being able to assess the quality of study in our country and everywhere. Of course, it is not against self-government that a new way of evaluating universities should be introduced, because external evaluation is something beyond the administration of the university. In other words, the evaluation is external to the extent that it does not relate to the administration or self-government of the university, because otherwise we would have the identity of the assessor and the assessor. The second issue that has been raised is the repetition and responsibilities of the Minister in certain cases concerning postgraduate diplomas. That is where I think the matter has been judged by the decision of the Council of State, which Mr Lovers mentioned. After all, it is also mentioned in the explanatory statement of the law. What does the legislator say here? The legislator says that, first of all, the Constitution seems to want free education and does not specify, does not distinguish a level of education. Of course, when our Constitution became, it did not take into account postgraduate studies. These were retrospectively recommended. So the decision says: Well, the legislator did not know them at the time. There may now be some tuition in some cases now, but these tuition fees should have been set by the legislator so that they do not make it difficult for the weak to access education, obviously, and in no way seem to lead to annulment of the basic constitutional requirement, which is equal access to education, because of economic inequalities. In this way, therefore, the Minister here seems to have the possibility of supervising higher education by the Constitution, setting out certain criteria for the imposition of postgraduate diplomas and the decision of the Council of State, but also the spirit of the Constitution, which, in principle, wants free education and only exceptionally to other levels. These criteria are all fully in line with the spirit of the Constitution. In other words, tuition fees must not be excessive and unlike the work provided, they must not prevent the poor financial student from having access to education and, nonetheless, these costs must be controlled. Can't the Minister do that? But he has the right to be supervised. Supervision doesn't just mean information and viewing. It also means a control capacity. And how does this check take place? It is always in the direction of helping poor students. It is not an audit that can be costly to anyone. Who really does not want our Constitution to be supportive of the Greek state, towards the students who have an economic difficulty or another reason for weakness and need a protection so that they can come to the university and enjoy the knowledge and the postgraduate, despite their financial weakness? I therefore think that the regulation fully reflects the constitutional wording. After the Minister's referral, it is again a university body that will regulate the provision, which was problematic, based on the spirit of constitutional principles and the Minister's opinion. So in no way can we see here that the Constitution is being violated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, the representatives of the parties and the relevant ministers have to speak after him and take the floor. Mr Georgias has already asked for the floor. You have the floor for five minutes. And any other spokesman wants to speak, please say so.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u67	I would also like to speak, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u68	And Mr Pafilis will be given the floor next. Here, Mr. Georgioda, you can start.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on the subject of the Minister's right to refer back to postgraduate courses, the issues are much more serious than those which the Vice-President has tried to mention. And what do I mean by that? I will agree - and we must all agree - that higher education institutions are given full self-government. That is exactly what enables them to do their educational work as they think and to have the function that their institutions define. In an article by the draft law I read the words'repeated' and then'shall comply with the Minister's suggestions'. I think that only this wording of these specific issues should give us consideration to all of us. It is not just the point mentioned by Mr SYRIZA, that some weak people should also be able to participate in postgraduate programmes. This can be defined - and it is determined anyway - through the rules with which each university is making its postgraduate programme. Or it can also be defined in a way neutral in terms of the function of each postgraduate programme at the end of the course. What do I mean? I shall read a few issues on which the Minister may intervene and refer back. The first says that one of the themes that the Minister considers is whether there is a manifest disparity between student charges and benefits to students. How will that be judged? If there were some conditions so that those who do not have the possibility of paying the tuition fees could also benefit, I would understand that and I think we would all understand it here. To be able to guarantee this in a way which is well known in advance, that is to say, to be a percentage of students, to have something to do with the number of participants in the postgraduate programme, could be understood by everyone. However, to allow the Minister to enter and make an assessment of this issue and to refer back to the possibility of a higher institution having a postgraduate programme and then the educational institution must comply with the Minister's recommendations, if this is not a direct intervention in full self-government, which must characterise the functioning of higher education institutions, then what is it? I think that with the argument of so-called protection of the weak, here we want and have a full control of the post-graduate programmes, which, unfortunately, is evident from what the entire educational community, the entire academic community, has said, will in fact lead to their being abolished, and in the end, those who have the greatest harm will suffer the most negative consequences, are those who do not have the opportunity to attend such post-graduate programmes abroad. They're gonna be wronged by all of this. Because at the moment we know very well that basically every postgraduate programme based on this offer, this provision, which the Minister says, has both the demand and is formed within a framework and the participation with security-stamps and protection barriers for those who are weak. I therefore believe that, in fact, with the wording of these two specific provisions, we have a direct intervention in the self-government of higher education institutions in relation to postgraduate programmes. I think we would all be positive if there were to be a number of diagrams which would protect the economically weak wishers from being involved in postgraduate programmes, but not to be so raw, straight-forward intervention, and even without objective criteria, in the process. In fact, whenever the Minister wants, in a procedure that does not have objective elements which could be the criteria, he will be able to stop any postgraduate programme. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Pachilis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u71	Mr President, don't we go to the parliamentary class?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u72	I have asked for the wish to be expressed by the parliamentary representatives, by those who would like to speak. It's not compulsory for someone to talk. If you wanted, you could speak - you are right, because you were ahead - but you did not ask for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u73	I've lifted my hand all this time, but you're not looking this far. It's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u74	You'll talk next, Mr. Pappa. Here you go, Mr. Paphie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u75	We've been placed on several occasions. We consider this debate on constitutionality and unconstitutionality - and do not stand up and say about the Constitution, etc. - Hypocritical. And I'll explain why she's hypocritical. I'll start backwards. Firstly, who defines unconstitutionality? A hundred and fifty Members of Parliament. Is there, then, any chance that the hundreds of one 50 are constitutional or anti-constitutional and that the decision will not end? Is this not a hypocrisy, then? And it also takes other dimensions, because we have the classic ping pong game: when SYRIZA was opposition, for each bill it was a matter of unconstitutionalism, and now the New Democracy, which is opposition, and so forth, PASOK, has already done so. The second is, however, the most important one: so tell me what the Constitution says. In Article 16(4), it reads: "All Greeks have the right to free education at all its levels in state education". You're not telling me, what grades are they, what grades, why do they pay? This is not unconstitutional, since you are cut off for the Constitution and you who have voted for it and those who keep it and open it more? I'm talking about PASOK before both New Democracy and SYRIZA now. Is that a constitutional thing? Isn't that what the Constitution says? What do you think? That you shouldn't pay anything. Free education at all levels. It's the shortest joke. Is there any chance that people won't pay from kindergarten, from kindergarten to university? So all your laws in that sense are unconstitutional. But that is the way in which the Constitution has been formulated, which is a good thing for interpretation, to serve very specific interests. Third example: What does Article 22 say? That the right to work for everyone is an obligation of the state. Unemployment is 25%. Is that constitutional, since you're cut off for the Constitution that has such provisions? Let's go down. Equally rewarded, he says, for equal work. For over twenty-five years EUR 586 and EUR 511 for under twenty-five years of equal work. Is that a constitutional version that you all voted for with the memos? Is it a constitutional law that you set the minimum wage below where it was agreed by collective bargaining? So, what do you say about the Constitution? So the Constitution is so designed that each government can interpret it and serves certain class interests again. All I'm saying in class is. It is at the expense of the working class and the people and it is in favour of those who have wealth in their hands. In this respect, Mr President, we are not taking part in this vote on whether it is constitutional or not. What is certain is that this bill is also an anti-grass, it hits the popular layers and now let 30% not pay if they have 7,500 years of income. If they have 8,000 or 7,800?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u76	Eleven thousand.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u77	Eleven thousand. Tell us where you live? I'll tell you later, Minister, because I can hear you shouting very much. Where do you live? Family with 11,000 to have two children at the university and send them for a postgraduate degree? Are you going to drive the world crazy? With 900 euros a month, can you study kids today, take them to college and do a postgraduate? Who are you all laughing at?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Christos Pappas has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u79	I am impressed by the fact that parties of the memorial arc, such as the New Democracy, which is being cut for private education, in violation of the Constitution, speaks of free education and objects to the teaching of postgraduate diplomas. Not that the objections are not correct. Surely a family affected by the memorials that you vote on, symbols, neo-democratics, pussies, all together - democratic arc you are, a monumental arc you are - bring a coma to the education of the Greeks and not only. Colleague of another party said about unconstitutionality. He has prevented us from saying that we are not only in breach of Article 16(5) of the Constitution, but that the entire Article 16 is violated, as far as free education is concerned, and as far as the self-employed of universities is concerned. Mr Loverdos' suggestion, which according to the established rules, said that Article 5 is being violated, that is, the organisational form of self-government of the university, which is an operational guarantee of the insolvent exercise of the fundamental right of academic freedom, as demanded by the Constitution - which we respect, others do not respect, and I refer you to the previous rapporteur, who is supposed to have oathed faith in the Constitution when a Member of this Parliament came out. The organisational form, therefore, of the self-employed of universities is in line with and comes fully in line with the case law of the Council of State, which you wish to abolish somewhere. This is not the case, the councils of the predominant state are not abolished. The decisions and case-law of the Council of State are therefore fully in line with the self-government of universities and administrative self-sufficiency, according to this case-law, where it is called "full self-government", means that these institutions have the power to decide on their own cases with their own institutions and their own responsibility. The importance of administrative self-sufficiency is varied, in the case of higher education institutions. Their staff are not directly linked to the public, i.e. teachers are civil servants, but they have their personal and operational independence, and, according to the Constitution, other teaching staff are involved in the exercise of the public service. The management bodies of the university, government, dean, presidents of departments, etc. shall be elected by all its bodies and decide on their own affairs. However, they shall be constituted exclusively by persons involved in carrying out their educational and research missions. This draft law does indeed affect with its proposed provisions and horizontal regulation of issues and the constitutionally regulated self-government of the HEIs, and this draft law is an additional malfunction in the functioning of higher education institutions. It therefore comes, for us, in complete contrast with Article 16. We agree with the unconstitutionality, but we also have our own objections, which means that we consider this draft law to be unconstitutional for essential reasons. And I come to paragraph 2 of the Greek Constitution, which says that education is a basic task of the state and aims at the moral, spiritual, professional and physical education of the Greeks, the development of national and religious consciousness and their modulation to free and responsible citizens. And I ask: has it not, in its essence, been affected not only by this draft law but, in addition to your policies since 1974, by the Constitution and this article? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. What discipline are we talking about and what state, ladies and gentlemen? For the Memorandum State Protector of Terrorists? What state are we talking about and what education? For the education written by Soros' sponsors of loan sharks and his native type Soros, when what characterizes the idiosyncrasy of our people is not taken into account, when did the story re-write about what has signalled our people and given their mark in history when the story is re-written without the Macedonian Race, without the struggles of the EEC, without the Northcontinental Election of 1914? So what kind of education are we talking about? We - and I close, Mr President - want education at national level. We want the education founded by Plato, Aristotle, the education sanctified by the Three Hierarchs, the education that Saint Patrocosm envisioned. We want Greek education that brought together saints, witnesses and new witnesses. We want our country back. You, Minister, have been the educated and deformed speakers of the left-hand nomenclara, who have sat on the neck of education since 1974, and you want to have a education delivered to your own children, a education delivered to Ruvikon. You have already handed over the House to Ruvikon and with the draft law today, you also want institutionalized now to deliver the Greeks' higher education.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u80	Mr. Theocharopoulos has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u81	An objection of unconstitutionality has been raised, to make it clear once again, because of the positions, I think it is not quite clear many times, for the IMP to be part of the process of evaluating the entire post-graduate programme. That is why the political questions accompanying it have been raised and, of course, along with that have also been asked. In fact, while what should be done is to strengthen the principle, in order to exercise greater control over all curricula, to strengthen the ADI, the Quality Assurance and Certification Authority, is the exact opposite. It cannot, however, be the Minister who collects control. You even grant yourself the right to refer back to the decision to set up a postgraduate course. That's what we accuse you of politically. You say, of course, that the need for referral back or not will give an opinion to you by a nine-member committee, which is of course made up of you and your final decision. We do not agree with the creation of new instruments that are parallel to the IPO, while what we should do, according to the Constitution, is to strengthen the independent authority. Do you not understand, for example, that the Scientific Advisory Committee on External Assessment, the evaluation of each course and a teacher from postgraduate students, just bureaucracy and conflicts can be brought? The question of strengthening the independent authorities is not an incidental matter. It's probably not just your visa. It is about too many bills that we have seen and too many sensible in this government. I would remind you how you deal with the report, for example, by the Bureau of Parliament's Budget when it tells you self-evident things about the situation of the Greek economy. So the question of all the independent authorities is to respect the rule of law and the independent authorities are part of that rule of law. They are not institutional obstacles but institutional support in Parliament and in our operation. On the contrary, it is created - unlike in all countries in the field of higher education in Europe - a centralised system - which in this IPO system is evident - which affects the autonomy of the institutions. A very interventionist Minister - the Minister concerned with this legislative framework - who can refer back to the decision to set up a postgraduate study programme, to establish, merge, rename, repeal institutions, schools and departments. We could also raise other issues with regard to unconstitutionality. For example, I am reading the report from the Scientific Office of the Parliament on another issue in relation to the Constitution. There is a concern from the Scientific Service of the Parliament if, according to the Constitution, the minority participation of the main teaching and research staff in institutions such as the county of a one-school school is allowed, as well as, in general, whether it should be regulated by the student's special participation, as the rapporteur for the Democratic Partnership said a moment ago, in the nature of the respective competences. The Scientific Service of the House itself wonders and is concerned about whether there are many issues in the Constitution in relation to this bill. In this context, parties and MPs should be placed on this issue that has been understood by the report. I shall conclude, Mr President - so that we do not always take the floor - with something I said in my first place. It is unacceptable that, at the moment, the health ministry's draft law is being discussed in committee and will come to plenary tomorrow, that it should be tabled in this bill today, now, an amendment signed by the Minister. In any case, if the logic is not lost, since the President is here and the President of Parliament, I would like to say that it is not possible to allow such legislation. The Minister should take this amendment back. A health bill is being discussed in committee, and it can be submitted to the committee in the bill coming tomorrow. This process is laughing at Parliament!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u83	Mr President, please speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u84	Mrs Vaki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u85	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am going to stick to what SYRIZA has said, Mr. Paradoxopoulos, that the evaluation does not, in any case, fall within the regulatory scope of the Constitution. But you will also allow me to make a political comment - I am not a legal person - to address both the New Democracy and the Democratic Co-responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, I find a selective use, which is sometimes made - let me speak, although heavy - and hypocritical. There is therefore a selective use of the term'self-employed'. Where the self-employed of the university is concerned, we invoke it. In this regard, as your problem is that the assessment function of the PPP is supposed to be lifted and replaced by the Minister. This is the problem among many and also that there can be a referral when there is a manifest disparity between costs, for example, a postgraduate student, between costs and the great tuition he imposes, which is what is being done. I am sorry to say this, but there are postgraduate degrees which are synonyms of more than 'business as usual', with great tuition fees, no expenses, with asymmetrical university fees, and that is exactly what the bill is trying to put in order. So your sensitivity to the self-employed is selective. Where there is upgraded, the restoration of the operation of the Senate, the association, the whole culture of an academic community, which we have forgotten, or the provisions on university asylum, you are retreat against the self-employed and the opposite where the principle of the IPO is in doubt. I don't understand, what is it? The guardian of quality? Can the PPP, an independent authority, in any case replace the principles of the university and the role that the academic community must perform? There you have a lot of sensitivity for the self-help. Let me not go into constitutional issues relating to the previous law, the Diamantopoulou Act, and for the Foundation Councils, which are constantly swinging against this law, where half of them were elected, but the rest were appointed, and they were also outside universities. What about constitutionality or unconstitutionality? Where does it interest us to invoke it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u86	Thank you, my colleague. With the permission of this House and by way of derogation from the Rules of Procedure for three minutes, we will have a comment by Mr Georgios Karras, an Independent MEP.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u87	Mr President, I did not.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u88	I thought because Mr. Dannelis was missing, you didn't want to talk. Mr. Black, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u89	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am not a constitutionalist, but I imagine that this particular issue of constitutionality has to do with intervention in the self-employed. I would like to say here that the intervention of the self-employed is far greater than the one we have heard with the referral of the decisions of the various institutions of the universities by the Minister. It is much larger than SYRIZA claimed in the case of L.4009/2011 for the Foundation Councils, which the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman has previously stated was appointed. The internal members were elected and they elected the external members. So there was no question of anyone's intervention, it was an internal process of the university. As long as it was unconstitutional when it was decided that it was not from the Council of State, we now think it is far more unconstitutional to interfere with and return the tuition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr. Black. Mr Carras, you have the floor for three minutes, with the permission of this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u91	And less, Mr President. Thank you. First of all, we have a constitutional issue, which we did not hear: what are the limits of the self-government and what are the limits of the supervision that the state maintains over the higher schools in this particular case. The second issue, which now arises, is that the postgraduate level also forms part of the third degree in university education. Therefore, in my opinion, any intervention within the university - and I believe that post-graduate studies are also an internal matter of the university - is not in line with the Constitution. If we are now talking about the limits - as I have started - of the self-government, of full self-government, as the Constitution says, towards the limits of supervision, there must be a distinction between self-government and the provision of educational services, and supervision is about other issues, such as economics and personnel issues. I therefore think that the provisions of this law go beyond the question of supervision, which the Constitution allows, and which are within the scope of full self-government. And since we have administrative intervention, even if it is regulatory - which in this case postgraduate studies is not of a regulatory nature, because it effectively regulates curriculum programmes which are subject to approval - I think that Article 16 is in breach of, and in accordance with, paragraph 4 and paragraph 5. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor for five minutes, please, because your colleagues, as you know, have been waiting for a long time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u93	Mr. Theocharopoulos, did you first say that an amendment from the Ministry of Health was tabled? Do I understand correctly?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u94	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u95	But you know that no such test has been filed and I would like you to control your sources.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u96	It is Amendment No 1131.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u97	Here's what I'm telling you. The General Secretariat of the Government is quite clear that no such amendment has been tabled. That's why I'm saying a little calm and control.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u98	You're wrong. So don't make any remarks.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u99	It can't be done, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u100	Let us see it whether it has been tabled or not, but it will not be solved by this controversy. We'll check it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u101	There is no way you can make any remarks to us, Minister. You might be wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u102	This is how the General Secretariat of the Government informs me, and it is good that we all protect ourselves. Second, as far as I understand it, we've said this many times and you'll see that it'll take us by tomorrow night. Our effort, our perseverance, from which we will not make a single inch back, is to establish academic rules. In the landscape, which has been deregulation in a disastrous way for universities, a class will reinstate on the basis of academic rules. I think when you hear academic rules, you get something. You get something because academic rules are the ones that ensure that there is no arbitraryness. Because you said what you said, but I did not hear you say what the pathogens of postgraduate studies are. Why are we doing all this? Do we have a sadistic mood against people who do their job properly? And you know what? 85% of all postgraduate courses are impeccable. Last year the study, when Mrs. Anagnostopoulos was in charge, was modernized this year and 85% were excellent. There is, however, 15% and 15% are discredited by the university. They're the ones you want to cover. You want to cover these misery. Because the self-employed does not say anywhere that the Minister does not oversee. Teachers' elections are coming, and we're coming back. Isn't that right? I didn't hear you say it was an anti-constitutional function. Financials are coming and they are also coming back sometimes. So I'm saying he wants a lot of attention, because otherwise you cover those who are dissatisfied. And those who, in the way the tuition is calculated, leave the economically weakest groups out of our universities. Our universities, however difficult they may be, remain in public. And student charges will be in line with cost rather than demand. This is a deep difference between us, but it must be understood. You spoke of this evaluation case. What do we do? Firstly, we believe that the PPP will assess. Secondly, we have a second evaluation procedure. What's the problem, exactly? Weren't you all those people who said "evaluation and reassessment"? Now that we are going to put a second procedure, you say, 'Dad, we must not.' That is why much attention is needed, because you are not well aware of the issues. You know what happened so far? Last year's decision of the Committee of the Regions was that they should be evaluated and reassessed, and reassessed, etc. Only so far the Minister has founded these. What do we do? We put a lot of filters on. We say: the department will decide. He will go to a committee in the university, made up of all the Quaestors and chaired by the relevant reverend. They'll see it again. He's going to the senator. Then he's coming to the ministry. What for? It will come to the Ministry, because there is a decision of the Council of State, which says how it will protect as much as possible the economically weaker strata in having access to universities. That is why the Ministry, the Minister with the agreement of a committee, which will also be chaired - something that you have obviously forgotten - will be brought back. If you don't want these, you need to find ways to stop arbitrary. Because with all this talk, which is happening, we forget that a lot of postgraduate degrees are free of charge. Many graduates have a symbolic ending. There are, however, the people I have told you, 15%, who, all they care about, are how the postgraduate can be made more expensive. In fact, to be honest, we would like everything to be free. Today, that is not realistic, not even as a request. That is why we are saying that there should be many ways in which we can monitor - I say this again and again - the arbitrary situation. So academic rules, quality, in favour of financially weak, those who have academic criteria to register in postgraduate. I would therefore ask you not to be troubled in this procedural way, because you are actually going to cover those who are undermining one of the best elements of the universities today, which are postgraduate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u103	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u104	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u105	What for?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u106	The Minister asked me a question and I would like to answer it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u107	But, Mr President, that is not the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u108	Mr. Mada, would you allow the Bureau to consult? Mr. Theocharopoulos, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u109	Mr President, I was asked by the Minister by name a question. He told me there was nothing wrong and he asked me something. Shouldn't I answer him? I want the floor on staff for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u110	For the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u111	Can I answer him for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u112	Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u113	Mr President, I will not delay 30 seconds. The amendment was tabled under a general number 1191 and a special number 132, signed by the Minister for Labour and the Minister for Health, Mr Polakis. And it writes in Article 5: 'An extension of the term of office of a doctor of work'. Mr. Paulakis signs it. There is nothing to do with the amendment to the Ministry of Education. It's another ministry, it's a signature of the Ministry of Health...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u114	In any case, Mr Theocharopoulos, it was understood.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u115	Minister, the hanger's house doesn't speak of rope!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u116	Mr. Theocharopoulos, it sounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u117	...the amendment of the Minister of Health, along with the Minister of Labour, is irrelevant to the Ministry of Education. A little serious!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate under Rule has been completed...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u119	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u120	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u121	I will answer you, but it is the first time in the debate, even if it is important to discuss the substance. I understand that you don't want this and it's a well-known parliamentary tactic. Look, it's an amendment tabled by the Ministry of Labour. It happens that the Ministry of Labour is...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u122	We're going crazy in here! Modification for doctors, when we have...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u123	Can we be quiet? To conclude his speech, Mr. Minister, otherwise we will not continue!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u124	It's a disgrace!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u125	Mrs. Christophilopoulou, please! Minister, say exactly what you want to say. The amendment you said that it was the Ministry of Labour.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u126	As the lady will talk to you... [[Noise - protests from the Wing of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR]] Easy, easy! It's the Ministry of Labour. Mrs Ahtsioglou will tell you on the subject and it is indeed the extension of the deadline for a doctor who is a working doctor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u127	Is that possible a debate?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u128	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u129	Mrs Ahchioglu, this has been said and the clarification has been made. There was a complaint that while the committee met... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Is it possible to continue? Can you let me run? It was reported that while it's being discussed... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Well, don't you care that the whole Chamber is watching you? You don't care at all? The whole Chamber is watching you fight! If that's possible! Mrs Ahtsoglou, it was made clear by Mr Gavroglou that Mr Theocharopoulos is not right to say that he is the Ministry of Health, but that he is the Ministry of Labour. What more will be added now if you take the floor? Please, just to make everyone comfortable.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u130	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u131	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate under Rule 100(2) of the Rules of Procedure on the issue of constitutionality has been completed. Please, accepting the objection of unconstitutionality to rise. [[At this point, the opposition to anti-constitutionalism is being raised.]] It is clear that the required number of Members from the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House did not arise. The objection of unconstitutionality is therefore rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed with the special speakers, because they are here for a long time and want to table their amendments, we will, in turn, be going as they have been announced. Mr. Papadimitriou has the floor first.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u132	Mr President, we are going to the Rules of Procedure! The rapporteurs have not finished and will the ministers speak? Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u133	Do you consider this to be a matter of mercy? Is that a matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u134	When you're in the Chair, right now...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u135	I'm sorry, but anyway...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u136	After the first six rapporteurs...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u137	Ministers, I assumed that we could reach agreement in another way, with a greater understanding of all of us. We'll move on with the three speakers who fall short and wait till you get the floor. We've come to an understanding that you're not gonna wait any longer. Anyway, it's okay. Mr Ioannis Delis has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u138	Ladies and gentlemen, of course, government policy is undivided and indivisible and in all areas it applies the strategy of capital, the European Union, the OECD, with the aim, of course, always of capitalist development, that is to increase the profits of capital, which means even greater exploitation for workers. [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] This strategy, therefore, would not, of course, leave out education, one of the most important factors for capitalist profitability, particularly today, in the era of global monopolistic competition. That is why all the changes or reforms, which have been unfolding for years by all the governments in education, have been serving this very strategy. Higher education is very high in the priorities of this strategy, because it is not just a space for the transmission of knowledge, but it is also the most important place to produce new scientific knowledge. And today, which is generally the case for the direct application of scientific knowledge to production, this is of enormous importance to the profits of capitalists. This strategy is being implemented by SYRIZA as well as today's draft law on higher education and, indeed, it does not hide its words at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u139	Please, be quiet. I'm interrupting. Excuse me. But it's not possible. Get those who want to leave and the rest of you to listen. Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u140	I said that the bill does not hide its words at all and with the explanatory statement accompanying this bill, it is recommended, capitalizes - it says - previous legislative processes. Indeed, it is. It is the continuation of the Diamantopoulou laws in 2011, of Giannakou in 2017 for higher education and these laws SYRIZA with today's bill renews them, retoss them, extends them and adds his own to the chain of reactionary changes in education. It adds a little dialogue on education with the fragrance of the labs of the European Union and the OECD, of course, which did not find any popular response. And so, here is the bill in the House in the summer, along with the crowns of social state and democracy, at the moment and the time when the government gives the blows to the lives of the people and youth, while it is preparing for its new autumn anti-popular attack. Today's bill is a decisive step towards adapting higher education to the capitalist market - a jungle, that is to say, its tighter tie to the chariot of capitalists, to serve their profits, economics and ideological. However, the deeper the adaptation of higher education to the needs of the capitalist market, the deeper the operation of higher education itself as a commercial, capitalist enterprise, because, depending on its purpose, the nature of education and its content is shaped. That explains why even now the Soviet educational system, which reached such high levels of quality and was free of charge to the whole people, is considered to be unrealistic, precisely because it was operating in the context of a socialist society and economy, which aimed and motivated popular prosperity and not profit. The real question is not whether education should be linked to the economy. Their relationship is, anyway, objective. The real question is what: does education, socialist or capitalist serve? And this is where SYRIZA doesn't chew his words at all. Capitalist, shouting out, that is, she serves as a government soul and body. This is why universities and TEIs are increasingly operating as businesses and students become their clients. This, however, has disastrous consequences for the people's strata, which are increasingly difficult to study, that is, they see the class barriers rising constantly in front of them. The government's propaganda that the bill is supposed to solve the problems of higher education from the point of view of people's interests and youth needs is a huge, fatal lie. Let go of the big words about social justice, freedom and democracy, because all of this, you know, is being mocked by the reality of the capitalist jungle. And this jungle your policy serves with nails and teeth, since among the many things that this bill says has found no word to say about today's huge needs of the students of the popular layers in housing, food, their movements, writings, consumables, their necessary technology equipment and chronic state funding of the HEIs, which leads them to marginal situations, the huge shortages of teaching and auxiliary staff, the ageing logistics infrastructure, students turning into inappropriate rooms and many of them are excluded from the workshops of their schools. The bill is going through a hurry, with a general reference to the 'good problems that have arisen as a result of the economic crisis over the last seven years'. Well, wasn't your government the one who wiped off the UFO reserves and drained them financially to pay the lenders in the spring of 2015? Does your government not continue as the previous ones to load the burdens of the crisis on the people's backs? And you dare invoke the consequences of your own policy and ask for the decency of the people? But for you are the problems of higher education, their many speeds, let us say, and above all, this not so good a watch with production and economy, with capital and business groups, that is, because they keep the keys to the capitalist economy and constantly whine about the delays in education to meet their demands. As for speculation phenomena of the HEIs, you accuse, "the established hierarchies and interest groups that distort its public character", as you write, all of this thrive precisely in the greenhouse of the business of universities and TEIs and not only are they going to stop, but they will be intensified after today's bill. After all, as life shows, the shell of the public character of the HEIs, for which you are cut, does not prevent their business from operating at all, hardly facilitated. All the main axes of the bill support and broaden the business operation of the HEIs. That is why the controversies of the urban parties of the opposition parties, disagreements on secondary and partial issues, do not question this strategic targeting of the bill, nor are they made from the point of view of satisfying the cultural needs of the people. Their criticism is from the point of view of the even greater business of the HEIs. This is your world, the public, the capitalist, and this is what you all serve. There is no more typical example than postgraduate. On the issue of the liberalisation of teachers in postgraduate courses, which already exist but are general to the bill, you all agree and praise, except for the JRC, which calls for the complete abolition of all tuition fees. In other words, as Thanasis Paphilis said a moment ago, even this urban constitution, which you all call on and which still speaks of public and free education. And the hypocrisy of the New Democracy and PASOK, who rise to the point of reintroduction of student participation to the administrative bodies of the HEIs, is disgusting when their own student groups are at the forefront of the consolidation and advertising of the HEIs as business. And how can you tolerate academic asylum, with the government simply reintroducing Mrs Giannakou's 2007 provision, which does not mean - as we call it - any substantial protection? How can you tolerate asylum in universities - companies, when these universities run cases with deadlines, with criminal clauses, with uncovered checks? With the bill it deepens, ladies and gentlemen, the operation of HEIs as business and even self-financed, in the service of all business groups, and education becomes more expensive, and is provided according to the parent's pocket. And this adjustment of higher education to the changing needs of capital actually distorts the social character of science, which instead of serving the needs of the vast majority, is becoming a juicy of capitalists and their profits, constantly degrading and categorizing diplomas. It comes sometimes even to the point that the universities sign Memorandums of Cooperation with NATO, as the University of Macedonia recently did in Thessaloniki. You are even seeking the survival of HEIs to depend not on state funding - this is what you intend for capital, for growth, as you say - but on the sale of their programmes as products purchased by tuition fees and, of course, on the expansion of the business activities of IIs in new fields of education. Thus, with the bill, the tuition is even more widespread in postgraduate, turning institutions into major commercial shops, from which students - customers, of course, can shop. And, indeed, you really need to have a lot of nerve, like SYRIZA, to talk about the social good of knowledge, while voting and bringing tuition fees to postgraduate, training, training and saying. The exemptions provided for are a mockery and only concern those on the edge of extreme poverty, and since, of course, they will have succeeded in entering the university and having completed their studies. However, those who will be exempt from these postgraduate courses cannot under any circumstances be more than 30% of the participants in each programme. In fact, this exemption provision becomes the diving device, behind which you are liberating and generalizing tuition fees, instituting SYRIZA's large liberalised postgraduate market. You are also trying to open the HEIs and the many profits of the promising foreign-language segments, with tuition fees. And here the other urban parties are pushing for more courageous, more bold opening. For the first time, the entry of HEIs into the great post-training bazaar, where universities and TEIs with two-year vocational education and training programs will open up educational shops and sell to the young people of the poor people's populations their practice, their level diplomas "5", as you say, on-call training as a regular ticket to unemployment with part-time and retraining facilities. They open up new fields of trade with their organization of training and lifelong learning centres, selling training and retraining. And these tuition fees will be the main donors to their operation. It is positive that BSE in its memorandum and, of course, claims to have a say in the formulation of these programmes, because, of course, capitalists are not only interested in the direct commercial exploitation of the results of science. They are particularly interested in the degree of skills of the workforce, which, if combined with the appropriate flexible working relationships, which all governments - and your own - promote - each day the productivity of their businesses takes off and their profits in the wild monopolistic competition are at stake. At the same time as this productivity is increasing, it is becoming elastic and working time is growing far beyond eight hours, and wages are plunging much less than 500 euros, even for high-education workers. These chats heard in the Committee on "Society and the knowledge economy" cannot hide that capitalism does not change: Progress always counts it by profit rather than by knowledge. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will have to borrow some time from my denology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u141	How many minutes, Mr. Delis?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u142	About three minutes. Knowledge however, capitalists and their system distinguish only the most beneficial for their exploiting purposes, for the information they need, for flexicurity, for repetitive training, which will provide labour power with the skills they need every time, of course, depending on the reclassifications of changes in capitalism. Another voice, of course, contradicts this, which on the one hand requires the increased labour force and on the other slows down this growth. And so at a time when more general education is necessary than ever to make creativity, multilaterality, imagination, the system of lifelong learning comes to replace this need for general education with successive training, flexiblely adapted to the needs of the capitalist market. That's exactly what SYRIZA's bill does. Three cycles of study are being established, one-year, two-year curriculum, and several-speed degrees are being created and another is being created: the five-year academic master. And yet, the more the scale of degree categorisation grows, the more the insecurity of graduates, since what eventually counts on capitalist plaque is exactly what the employer asks the graduates each time and how cheap he can find these, to put them in his work. This very simply means competition, which increasingly throws the price of the scientific labour force. The unscientific distinction between higher education and university and technology is maintained and deepened. Don't look for anachronisms. This is the most carabineous anachronism and what you do at TEI, changing the names in their administrations, in the teachers, the essence doesn't change. It's like "Manolio who changes his clothes and otherwise puts them"! The struggles, the major problems and the needs of the students of the TEI are not treated with such a thing. The status of contractors is consolidated in the cleanliness, storage, maintenance of HEIs. The regional councils, known as the Academic Education Councils, ASEAN, are being established together with the above-mentioned Rectal Councils, in the place of the previous Diamantopoulou Foundation Councils. The aim of the SYRIZA is to achieve what the previous boards failed to achieve, to "tie" that is, more effectively with the needs of the capital, by choosing to do this at the level of each individual region and not at the level of each individual institution. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing, Mr. President. This, however, is not called tertiary education for all the people. An anonymous company recalls, selling educational products on the market, a market very expensive for popular families. What does all this have to do with the needs and anguish of the children of the people's family who are studying? What does all this have to do with the rights of graduates to have full access to the whole range of knowledge of their scientific objects, to be able to have a single unbroken degree, and this degree to be the only condition for their profession, as the People's Movement and the JRC calls for? What does this really have to do with a science in the service of modern folk needs? Absolutely nothing. This is why the JRC is voting against today's bill and calls on students, universities, those who refuse to become business contractors, especially contractors and those of the low grades, to oppose the new attack on the right to public and free scientific education, to organise their struggle by raising their fair and unsatisfactory demands. Today's mobilization of the Students Front outside the House shows the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u143	Thank you, too. The reason for this is the special speaker of ANLL Mr Katsikis for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our task, as politicians and parents, should aim to educate young people in thinking and not in thinking about what to think about. Education must turn mirrors into windows, windows of our soul and mind. We would once again stress that for us Independent Greeks education is one of the national priorities. In the difficult economic period the country is experiencing, there is an urgent need to ensure that the academic mission of higher education institutions is carried out in every way, but also to have uninterrupted access to education for all citizens, regardless of their financial potential. The current draft law, made up of two parties, recommends an integrated institutional intervention in the organization of higher education institutions by making use of previous legislative processes, as well as any essential elements resulting from dialogue with institutions and parliamentary procedures. The aim of this bill is to cure chronic dysfunctions. The proposed regulations, therefore, aim to maintain the public character of EITs, to increase transparency and consensus in their administration, in order to make them open and effective in society as a whole. It is intended to address administrative problems of higher education institutions in order to strengthen the principles of merit, impartiality and good administration. It attempts to link education and research closer to the establishment of the foundation of the Regional Academic Councils of Higher Education and Research, with the task of promoting education, in line with the research and development policy of each institution. To develop development strategies for all regional institutions promote synergy and extroverty, with a view to eliminating the existence of many rapid growth in higher education institutions and creating regional disparities and problems with regard to the implementation of a single policy in the field of higher education. At this point, let me say that the single policy in the field of education - because it is considered a national issue - unfortunately there is not, unfortunately today, a lack of and a number of hypocritical tendencies are being developed. For example, I consider this also to be the case with the remark made by the New Democracy colleague, who was posted on Article 21, regarding the participation of students in the award of honorary, honest and honorary professorships. In other words, I want to believe, a shallow and opposition approach. If the students participate as provided for in this article, i.e. in the composition of the assembly body, by 15%, how will they be excluded from taking its decisions or recommendations? But why don't you, ladies and gentlemen, take the view that you do not agree on the participation of students throughout the whole range of representation? Tell me you don't want students to participate in any instruments. But you don't say that. Why don't you say so? Starting now with the content of the articles of the bill, you will allow me to remain in my remarks on the highest church academies, Minister, and their omission from subjecting them to higher education institutions, as specified in the first Article of Chapter I, in which the structure of higher education is defined and its legal form. I believe that it is a omission which should be restored, when since 2006, and in particular paragraph 2 of Article 1 of L.3432/2006, the highest church academies are referred to as "which belong to higher education". Article 33 defines the duration of study in postgraduate courses, which are at least two semesters. It is also foreseen that each postgraduate course includes courses corresponding to a minimum of sixty credits units. Our proposal was - and remains - that credit units should be given retrospectively to all programmes drawn up by the university departments and concerned graduates, for example the teaching of two-year courses of education, teaching of primary education and teaching of kindergartens. According to the bill, students exempted from student fees will not exceed 30% of the total number of enrolled in the postgraduate curriculum. I should like to return and suggest, on the basis of the general economic situation of a large part of the Greek population, that the percentage of students exempted from the postgraduate course is increased by 50%. Article 38 concerns the selection procedure for the preparation of a doctoral thesis. Paragraph 1 lays down the standard conditions for the preparation of a doctoral thesis. Paragraphs 2 and 3 shall specify the application procedure for the preparation of a doctoral thesis and the selection procedure. We propose to add the following provision "graduate with special research and writing work, which is demonstrated by publications at approved scientific conferences, in the approved magazine and daily press, as well as in self-qualified books, which are used as university manuals, one or more, it is possible, if recognised by the relevant scientific sector, to draw up a doctoral thesis without the preparation of a postgraduate work". With Article 70, I'm very afraid, Minister, that this will be the case. Remember the impact of the phrase "excellence is retreat" and consider the echo it has even today in the consciousness of those who are struggling every day with a view to discernment and a better future. In Article 70, therefore, which provides for the abolition of the designation of conduct in the qualifications of secondary school pupils, this act is justified by stigmatisation and punishment. At the same time, we call on the stigmatisation that had been subjected to students in troubled political historical times because of political opinions. The references to political ideas as a precedent for the abolition of the qualification of conduct in the dismissals of students do not help, on the contrary, perpetuate divisive logic and perceptions in our personal view. In any case, however, the political history of Greece is known. A large portion of the Greeks have suffered many evils. Political persecution, however, is in the past and it would be good to stay there. In addition, Article 70 provides for the adoption of new documents, in which, since the entry into force of the law, the designation of conduct will not be indicated. To conclude, I sincerely hope that this provision, the abolition of the qualification of secondary school pupils, does not lead to absolute disobedience, does not lead to total lack of mutual respect between pupils and teachers. The school environment is an important stage in the socialisation of adolescents, it is the micrograph of the society in which they live. A method of discipline and possible co-responsibility is hereby abolished. Continuing, I would like to stress that the ban on the exclusion of disabled and disabled pupils from the right to registration and to study in private schools, as provided for in Article 71, is absolutely in agreement with us, because that, yes, is a provision that strengthens the social integration of people and these special skills and not needs. We welcome the provision for Article 73, to strengthen Greek-language education in foreign units. We welcome the possibility of secondment, which is now given to the spouses of teachers belonging to the Security Body to co-operate outside Greece and vice versa. It is an arrangement that strengthens the foundation of the Greek family and ensures the harmony of the marriage life, alluring many new couples. Article 74(4) provides for a specific percentage of more than the number of importers in the academic year 2017-2018 in schools, departments and introductory directions of universities of higher church academies, TEIs and students of the Lesvos, Chios, Oinoussa and Psara Islands. We will reiterate our proposal that this provision should indicate the military schools, the schools of the Security Bodies and the Schools of Commercial Navy - Masters of Engineering, and therefore the legal improvement of this article, so that they can be included in the quota measure and the candidate students of these schools who live on the islands above. Another point which I would like to mention again and which I think is of interest to you, Mr Minister, is Article 75. Here, of course, we have also talked to the committees on several occasions about where the Polytechnic School, its headquarters at the University of the Aegean, should it be in Samos, if it should be in Syros. I personally believe that when education is produced, the first, the important one, the dominant one is the result that is sought, to be the desired one. Furthermore, I think that you will either see and tell us again whether such reflection can have an answer, in view of the fact that local societies there also have an opinion on this issue - and that should be assessed and measured in whatever decision you take, so that the final piece of legislation or specifically mention through legislation and provision, where it will ultimately be the seat of the Polytechnic School at the University of the Aegean - or unless you consider that the congress has to decide, by assessing what you are calling today or at the end of the day you are carrying this responsibility towards the Senate. But you'll tell us. Article 80 provides for amendments and additions to d.d. Date of birth: 38/2010. It adds a paragraph to Article 54, which enables the Minister of Education to recognise professional equivalences in qualifications. I note that the above presidential decree and Law 4452/2017 incorporate the Community Directive 2005/36, which defines the framework for the taking up and pursuit of regulated professions in national law. Legislative regulated professions shall mean professional activities whose taking-up, pursuit or one of the conditions of exercise is subject, directly or indirectly, to statutory or administrative provisions, by the possession of specified professional qualifications. In this sense and in order not to directly alter the letter and the spirit of the Community directive through the Greek legislature, I propose that the institution of professional equivalence should not apply to regulated professions. In this way, the precise transposition of Community provisions into national law is achieved and, on the other hand, uniform treatment is facilitated between the Member States of the European Union. Since health professions - particularly those - are one of the most regulated professions in law, they should be excluded from the possibility of recognition of professional equivalence. Another point I would like to stand by is my proposal to amend paragraph 5 of Chapter C of Article 16 of the Law. As regards the secondment of teachers to meet serious needs such as health reasons, spouses' co-responsibility and whatever concerns serious family reasons. The application of the provision as it stands, i.e. the carrying out of the posting of teachers from a prefecture, i.e. from PYSE to PYSE, has caused a number of problems in its implementation, so that the reason why they are being asked is not real. For example, I note cases of teachers who, for reasons of co-service, applicants for secondment to Magnesia, for them to be placed - I repeat - because of their co-responsibility in the area of land and who are finally placed on an island in the northern Sporades. Therefore, the reason why the secondment is sought is undone. The proposed regulation therefore aims to facilitate and protect their teachers and families from adventures, but at the same time to facilitate the work of the local school administration services, as it will make it easier for them to place gaps in island areas with seconded teachers, who are really interested in serving them, while preventing tensions and operational problems created by the forced placement and reluctance of many seconded teachers to serve on islands. In conclusion, I will say that the Independent Greeks are voting in favour of this bill, because with the interventions we are proposing, there will be an upgrade and modernisation of higher education and we will prevent the possibility that education will be reportedly ineffective. It is commonly accepted that education is the driving force for the development of society and culture. The fulfilment of these objectives is therefore linked to the existence and functioning of a quality and structured, modern educational system, which will be governed by the principles of democracy, social equality and solidarity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u145	Thank you, too. Mr Anastassios Megalamoustakas has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u146	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, in plenary today the debate on the draft law entitled 'Organization and operation of higher education, rules on research and other provisions' began. I think it didn't start well. When a draft law starts to be discussed in plenary, the climate should be completely different and not warlike, as it has so far been, as all parties in this House are talking about stable planning, a programme of intergrouping and a broad consensus when talking about education or even education in general. We don't see that today either. It is a draft law in which the time has indeed been allowed to be thoroughly analysed. However, while very carefully following all the committees, and today, what has happened in plenary so far, I see that time has run out on the substance of the matter. We were unable to give the citizens what they might expect to see, as unilateral reasons, or monologues better, are not dialogue. I have listened very carefully to the Minister saying that they were repeating speeches to all the committees, without actually having any proposals. In part, I agree with this. However, so far we have not seen the Ministry accept and suggestions from the other parties - I will tell you exactly what I mean next. So far we have seen a draft law which I believe, as I have told the committees, will have the shortest possible life expectancy. It is very regrettable that this is the case in a draft law which forms part of the field of education, which together with the economy and perhaps the health should not be managed in such a way. It should have a strategy, a supra-party composition of views, and our decisions should be firm so that they will always have the maximum benefit for our society, in particular in this draft law on the educational community. I say all this because we are discussing the bill in 2017 and the implementation of the provisions of the law will begin the educational year 2018-2019. So when we wait for elections by 2019, and when there are announcements from the Qualified Opposition that once it comes to the government - which polls show us - it will abolish this bill, I do not understand how there will be what, I repeat, we all ask in the field of education. Education has been historically affected by reforms and bills with a name. We know very well that the experiment is a learning tool. However, I do not understand why some ministers have been using this method for thirty years and apply it to education. There's nothing stable. The Greek society, unfortunately, was given names by reforms. It was celebrated by changes in changes even by ministers of the same parties. He was satisfied with the grand and grand plans and announcements that pathogens in the field of education end. The most tragic proof of what I'm saying - is something I mentioned in the committees as well - is when we talked about Article 8 of Law 4009/2011. It was even central to the bill, as it concerned the institutions of the institutions, the council, the dean and the senator. The amendments were already initiated directly by Law 4025/2011. Since then, ten changes have been made, ten amendments by all the governments that have passed, and today we are going to abolish it. That is exactly what it shows us that even the strong laws passed by a large majority, such as the 2011 one voted by two hundred and fifty-five Members, are not necessarily a positive one. They must have long-term planning, a proper programme, and above all have a resonance on society. I believe that one of the reasons why the previous government has fallen, was this draft law, this law that has been passed, and in particular the provision on student write-offs. I have already stressed at committee meetings, but I think it should be heard in plenary that there is no consensus, that there is no cooperation, despite what we want to say. Unfortunately I was fully confirmed, as we saw that beyond the two parties of the conflict, the rest of the parties were negative apart from the Central Association, which was subject to the bill and it was not an accidental choice, nor did we want to avoid our responsibilities. We have shown that we are substantiating our views and positions on education. We want to see if, at the end of the day, some of the proposals will be accepted not only of our own but of the rest of the parties within the House. We would like to see if there were any tactics as in previous bills, so that we can finally put ourselves in a position for this draft law as well. At all meetings, our criticisms believe it was creative. We have tabled our views, expressed our objections, and in every objection we have also proposed a solution to the problem that we believe will be created through these provisions. But, unfortunately, we do not see anything being taken into consideration until now. I fear that the end of this debate will come and the hundred and fifty-three will give the 'o. In this draft law. Of course, I do not know how much compact it will be, as so far I have not seen them take into account proposals from the co-government partner. There have been several objections from the ANE representative and so far we do not see anything adopted, from what they are proposing. Having seen public consultation very carefully, having received too many messages, the conclusion I make is that we must not, with ambiguities and incomplete provisions, have the division between social groups. I say this because many times we have seen some articles, with provisions, with amendments, which do not exactly clarify what they want to achieve, create tensions between groups. Such was in a previous bill dealing with the use of extracts of writing by university students. We finally saw what the result was, as the reactions were too many. What the Greek society is asking for is dialogue. We cannot move on with monologues without taking into account our interlocutors. I also stressed to the committees and to every committee concerned with the Ministry of Education that for the Association of Centres a unique criterion in voting or voting against an article is the usefulness that this will have to the Greek people and nothing more. We don't care who says it, who recommends it. What we care about is his correctness. I think everyone in this House should move on. We have a positive attitude to many of the articles in the bill, as we told you in the committees and with a sense of responsibility we tabled several amendments - four in the number. I would like to mention them briefly. We have tabled an amendment on the blocking of the electorate for more than one term. We believe that the restriction of 1+1 for the terms of terms of terms of office is not meaningful as they are heretic positions and may be treated similarly to those of the Quaestors but also those of the presidencies. We have also tabled an amendment to Article 76 calling for the removal of first-stage teachers from the region's PDO to the PDO of Attica and Thessaloniki. In the same amendment we call for simplification of the procedure for the award of self-instrumental projects to the members of the EIF and the EDPS. We are also asking for clarification that the administrations of the HEIs and the corresponding specific research funds for years will not have any responsibility for the non-recovery of debts in favour of these accounts for the period - and we would clarify this - in which there was no mechanism for accessing tax data for their certification and for their forced collection. We cannot burden people while we have not given them the appropriate weapons to fight the cause for which we define them. We are calling for an extension of the possibility of closing the debts of the teachers, which have arisen from their participation in companies, as defined by No 4415/2016. Another amendment we have tabled concerns the PSC. In particular, we want the participation of students in the administration. In fact, we are asking for the minimum, which is the right of speech. We want this to be accepted in order to restore an injustice that exists to date, as it is the only institution that does not give this possibility to its students. Another amendment we have tabled relates to the examination and classification of graduates at the HEIs and I am specifically talking about the rankings. We have seen very carefully the amendments tabled today and the amendment tabled by the SYRIZA Members for Rule 74. What we are asking for with this amendment is the possibility of examining and introducing OHS graduates in December 2017, doing with the new system, as well as its provisions, according to the communications that have been made by the institutions so far. It would be oxymoorous to regulate how the conquerors will become and how the students will be introduced before and after 2017 and to need special provisions, specific arrangements in one, two months or in February perhaps, on how these issues will be settled. I now come to some articles that we want to highlight, because they are very important to us in terms of this bill. One of these is Article 1, namely paragraph 3, which deals with two-year curricula. We would like here to draw your attention to the fact that, in the application of the law, the EITs are not degraded. We hope it doesn't happen. We understand and understand what you have told us, but we have seen many times that problems arise in the application of the laws. We do not want problems to be created. We hope so, too, for immunity. In Article 3, we agree with everything specified in the first paragraph. Therefore, the second paragraph should ensure all the above. This is very important. Article 46 deals with professional rights. We would like a definitive solution to this at last and to stop all these graduates, who have been at this stature, in this difficulty, because of the bad policies that have been pursued so far. Before I close, I should like to refer to postgraduate. Of course, we agree with lowering charges. We agree to have access to postgraduate degrees for all, even to the economically weaker. However, until postgraduate fees are fixed or set, we propose that there should be a 50% reduction in tuition fees from this year and when the final set of fees is set, then there should be a set-aside. We believe it will give a breath to all the citizens who are currently suffering from the crisis. To close, I believe that Greece should be a curriculum. Our story has given us a powerful trademark. Here the sciences, culture and the arts have flourished, and that is what we should take advantage of. I'm not asking for the full commercialization of our educational system. However, we must take advantage of this tool, this advantage we have. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Very little time, Mr President. I would like you to see Article 34 again, namely paragraph 7, which deals with foreign diplomas. Perhaps they should be recognized first and then entered into the postgraduate course. Because we do not want it to be in any way an obstacle to this opening that we propose to this sector, to the education sector. We'll be placed again then. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u147	We continue with the Special Buyer of the Party The River, Mr. Mavrotas. Mr. Mavrota, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u148	Thank you, Mr President. Let me begin with a point of order. We had the polynomous - broom, now the new find is the multimodal - broom, where we put five provisions from different ministries in an amendment, so as to say that we have brought an amendment instead of five. In this draft law we have twelve amendments, both of which are multimodal amendments. In my opinion, it is lazy, because last week there was an outcry about the number of amendments. Let's go to today's bill. I'm going to focus on the higher education that's in the bill, a space that I know from within. This bill is a bill "stealth", you know it's those invisible planes that don't catch the radars, it's fast, quiet, it's coming August 1st, so it won't be widely perceived when the world is on the beaches. SYRIZA's rapporteur, my very sympathetic Mr. Jufi, answered these accusations, saying that the previous ones did the same. That's why they voted for you to do the same thing as the previous ones? Think about it a little and don't use it as an alibi. So, in short, for higher education, this bill does not have any developmental breath, as far as universities are concerned and, above all, as far as extroversion is concerned. Resurrects the asylum as if it had ever been abolished. It puts suddenly very important issues such as TEIs, the five-year master, etc., to ensure alliances and controversies. He tries to intervene in the elections of the management bodies so that the mechanisms and professional trade unions can regain the upper hand. It strangles the postgraduate programs, exploiting pathogens that existed to make a narrow suit for everything, forcing many of them to close. Finally, it makes micro-management and services in the well-known framework of customer relations. But let's see them one by one. About the academic freedoms and the unique return of asylum as if it had ever left, we talked about it. Close the eye at specific audiences that have read the Ruvik of legality, even asking the Roman student movement to take action. Do what? Do you want him to run gangs? We heard on Friday and Mr. Friday's lecture in committee, and we were left with the question. He doesn't know or does he don't know the situation? He told us about student occupations, when it is known that the problems are created by 99% from outside university data, which find fertile ground for their activities, without the police's annoying presence. Let's see what I said about the extroversion. The road to the development of Greek higher education goes through the extroversion. Our universities are losing in international ratings because we are lacking in indices of extroversion and also in connection with production. The exhibition of the National Bank of Greece of May 2017, two months ago, proposes to transform Greece into an academic hub, attracting students and overthrowing the Brain Drain. It speaks of saving EUR 1.8 billion a year, while in a decade's time a contribution to GDP growth by 1.1%, in addition. I would like to present this study on the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, George Mavrotas, presents for the minutes the above study, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Anyone reading this bill will see that it is moving in exactly the opposite direction. It is trying to make it difficult for the flexibility and extroversion of Greek higher education. We're going to the postgraduate programs, too. Because the Minister said that we have not spoken about postgraduate diplomas, I would like to inform him and to submit an article on the Practicals of "HUFFINGTON" on June 12, 2017, entitled "A Five Masters, or how academic folkism undermines postgraduate studies. [[At this point, the Member, George Mavrotas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let's go to the numbers. Of the seven hundred thirty-fifth postgraduate programmes five hundred twenty-four, or 71%, have tuition fees. One hundred and eight are from TEI. All postgraduates from TEI are with tuition fees. Of the five hundred and twenty-four, with tuition fees, fourteen have over 8,000 euros, most of which are financial and administrative. Because the Minister said we're going to talk very hard on Monday here, we're anxious to hear so that we don't burn the cool together with the dry. Not all graduates are the same. There are the most research and the most professional, such as the postgraduate economy and administration, which are resonant on the managers' market. In fact, many companies also pay the tuition fees for their managers to study on them. If you wanted to treat the pathogens, you could academically evaluate the postgraduate through the ADI and take steps for what you find inadequate, set norms for the participation of teachers from the home department. You're already doing it in the bill, and we could just talk about numbers, that is, about 60% or 80%. The participation of teachers in postgraduate with tuition is to take place in overtime, i.e., after they have exhausted the obligations of the annual specialization form, and not those graphics where you say, if someone participates in a postgraduate with a tuition fee, they should necessarily participate in a level playing field without tuition. It's the logic of pizza on two pizzas or one gift! For free access to postgraduate. We say that everyone can access scholarships, but, based on academic performance for those with low incomes and low bank deposits, we will add, because the tax clearer does not always tell the truth. In other words, it would be much better if you put a minimum student board with scholarships, say 20%. In other words, 20% of students at every postgraduate school are with a scholarship. So as you have put it and have less than 70% of the national median median equivalent of available income and that does not exceed 30% of the students of the postgraduate are mathematically insecure. For postgraduate membership wages. Put an overall cap on each programme's budget, which will go to teachers' fees, so that we do not have the phenomena that the Minister mentioned on Friday. So we will have the freedom to allocate funds, depending on how much each offers to the postgraduate school. Because it has been heard many times by MPs and the Minister that it is the job of teachers to teach and that they are doing their job and that motivation cannot be the money and should not normally be paid extra for postgraduate work, are you a little hypocritical here, ladies and gentlemen? And we as MPs don't do a job? And we don't get a payroll? Why then also get extra compensation from our participation in committees? Isn't that part of our job? We must do so in committees as in postgraduate, so. For each committee paid, we should also go to an unpaid. On two pizzas or one gift! I do not agree with such populist approaches. Whoever works and offers, evaluate and rewarded accordingly. In conclusion, I believe that the regulations laid down in the bill will increase the moderate postgraduate so that everyone can get some titles and will be closed or transferred elsewhere, in Cyprus, for example, what is internationally competitive. There'll be an intensification of the flight of teachers, they'll be shut down some Greek postgraduate. So then our students will also leave outside, while the universities will lose valuable resources in times of state sub-funding. The having, of course, will send their children abroad and the middle layers will be trapped without options. So you are hurting social mobility, in which it aims at a modern worthwhile education system and all of this for some of your ideological obsessions, to put the same narrow suit on everyone. That's why I mean it when I say that you're going to be thankful by foreign universities, not to say various Greek colleges. You will also send them teachers and students, depriving the Greek universities of resources and people. We're going to the TEIs, who seemed to be enthusiastic about this bill. In Article 30, add the cheese to the TEIs for PhDs. A committee will be set up to recommend to the Minister for the criteria for the process of doctoral development at the TEI. That is the case, without dates, without timetable, in essence, that is to say, 'Let it be there and see'. In Article 46 on professional rights you do the same. A committee will be set up to recommend to the Minister and he will propose a presidential decree again without timetable and dates. Pretend you solve the issue and TEIs pretend to believe you. I think there are TEIs doing an excellent job and they are better than some university departments, and I do not say that, but it can be seen on the basis of objective evaluations, research work, publications, participation in research programmes and others. But from this point on until we start baptizing them all universities, there is a distance and these are not done with egg bills. They want fermentation so as not to be wronged or to be incapable. Let's go to the administrative board. We have separate voters of deans and anti-rectors, which is something that has faded many and raised very specific objections, which we have heard in the hearing of the bodies. He would not know them, however, if they were to read Mr Gavroglou's article just three years ago in "AGEAN" entitled "A serious defeat of the Left in the Universities". That is where the current Minister finds that a left defeat took place at the universities with the institutional framework of Law 4009 and something needs to be done to restore the left-wing hegemony in the field. Now with the separate lists trying to do that, because the counter-regulators are now an important pole of power in the universities, it is the half-Federal Council that will run the test at the UFOs. There'll be the dean and another ballot on the dean's board. What you yourself accused the institution's boards of boards of institutions of having a difficult division in universities, that is exactly what you are now doing with the separate ballots for them. Just then it didn't bring you the result, and now you're hoping to come up with yours. This is also linked to your insistence on elections with ballots so that the elections are less involved and the mechanisms and professional trade unions have the upper hand. Avoiding the electronic vote - technocraticism you once said - such as the hell with funny excuses and because we grew up in the Polytechnics, we know what elections mean with polls. I'm coming to something last. Be a little more specific on the subject of student participation in the congress. They should also vote for their representatives from a single ballot, as should the other categories of workers. Don't let them get away from party schoolgirls. I repeat, we must seriously consider the single vote and the elections to the student clubs in order to stop the universities, be a fan of the parties. On this we'll help you if you dare. I am going to go to Article 76 under the innocent title: "Personal matters of HSY". Micro-management and ruffles for those close to the ears of power. This is a typical example of the moves of teachers from regional universities to those of Athens and Thessaloniki. Eleven months ago we changed Law 4009 with Law 4415/2016 and said not to come from regional universities in Athens and Thessaloniki, so that regional universities would not be dissociated. Now you're rechanging him and saying let them come. Was Mr. 4009 finally correct and we changed him in September last year? What's going on? Why did you regret? Who or who do you want to help? In fact, with the new provision, if a regional professor wants to leave, he does not even need the consent of the department of origin, as long as the Minister says so. Now you've changed that, too. As regards what you said there is the approval of the Senate, do not forget that in the Senate there is only one member from the Chamber, that is, a minority from the minority. So, for known people and friends, they don't get hit in the district? What matters is how the Minister judges it. That is why first grade teachers from regional universities will do well to have them well with the Minister if they want to move to central universities. I also come to some brief remarks in the bill. They are missing the highest military training institutions, which are equal to the HEIs. We also see in the transitional provisions on postgraduate diplomas that there is a impartiality in favour of the OSH, the Open University, and the International University as far as these provisions are concerned. A question to me is, really, what about the famous organogram of the PSC? When will this be ready? Also in the transitional provisions in Article 85, paragraph 2b, how can students continue after the programme has been closed? To raise objections to the university? They are provisions, that is, which are unclear and incomplete, cut and sewn for lawyers to work. I close, Mr President, with this: you have the government majority and you can vote on this bill as it stands. We as a river say 'no' and we want it to be recorded that we strongly resisted this summer's raid of collusional idealism, centralisation, micro-management and rich troughs. You talk every little bit and a little about the neoliberal university what has in it the meaning of speech and effort, you baptize it neoliberal and you cleaned it up. Knowledge as a commodity, etc. train slogans. You want everything evenly. If anyone tries to stand out, how to get him to the average. You added a little monopoly of the heart, such as you only care about the weak, but with what you bring, you will make them even weaker in the depth of time. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We therefore express two different worlds in terms of the academic model. We believe that in today's globalised academic environment, in order to climb the Greek universities, they need extroversion, connection to production, academic speech. You want asylum, unwept, slogans, a university of the least common denominator, where you will settle between you and the few and "Let the good go out". That's good for your party audience, but bad for the future of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u149	Thank you, too. The amendment under number 1191, which regulates the following themes: "Daybook of personnel employed in agricultural work and fisheries, extension of membership of the Board of Directors of the LAG, modification of Article 9 of Law 3996/2011, extension of the duration of a special unemployment grant programme of former employees to "ELLENIC INDUSTRIA S.A." and extension of the term of office of the working doctor" will be supported by the Ministers, Mr.Achtsioglou and Mr. Petropoulos. Mr. Petropoulos has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u150	I will be very brief, Mr President. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I will develop the first proposed provision, which concerns keeping a book on employment for those who provide work for fishing and farming. We are simplifying the system that we must follow, so that we have the best response to this need for a declaration of work in these categories, in these activities, as we have seen that we have had a declining course in the declarations of employment of poster workers in the crop. Of seven thousand applications that were in 2011, they ended in 2014 to be only twenty-two. Just twenty-two post-emergency farm workers. This showed a huge fleeing towards the black work of farm workers and, above all, the harvest. The same happens in fisheries. Not to this extent, of course, but it facilitates activity in these sectors of the economy in a more simple way of stating the self-employed. This simple way is a book of employment, which is held in every activity and at the end of employment each month the employee declares in the relevant proof of periodic declaration, the time for which he pays the contributions and the salary. That's how we're dealing with an old problem. We are responding to the need for farmers and fishermen to make a proper adjustment, so that they too can be in line with their wage and insurance obligations, which now leads to a reduction in their own tax base, as all these amounts are included in the expenditure of these activities. In this respect, there is a positive response from the people concerned and from agriculture and fisheries to comply with the rules we have laid down for social security. That is why we make it easier for them to do so. For our part, we are willing to accept and follow any positive observation that can be made to improve this practice even better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u151	Thank you, too. Mrs. Ahchioglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u152	Mr President, can I make a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u153	Let Mrs. Ahchioglu speak and then give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u154	Before Mrs. Ahchioglu talks.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u155	Here, Mr. Bourra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u156	Thank you, Mr President. I would ask the Ministers - and I would ask them - to have their lives, I see that they are here almost all of the Ministerial Council! - if possible, say a few words about what is the urgency of the character, so that so many amendments can come, which will pass without debate, without even knowing. Let them say - if they think they should - what is the reason why these amendments come so quickly without being informed and in an unrelated bill beyond any sense of applying the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House. Let us at least be told, because at the last minute, amendments are coming, most of which, if not all, are called overdue. What's the main reason? Why else - to remind you - there was a revolution here, if it was one, two or three amendments, and now we have a lot of dozens of amendments and not a leaf!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u157	Mrs. Ahchioglu, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u158	Thank you very much, Mr President. The second amendment by the Ministry of Labour concerns the extension of the mandate of the Mediation and Arbitration Agency. Some time ago, a relatively timely question had been raised by a Member of Parliament and I had answered the question of the OMEI that the term of office of members of the Board of Directors of OMEI ended at the end of April 2017 and the national social partners were delaying, even though their ministry had mobilised them several times to point to their representatives. All the national social partners have been consulted, who have requested a slight extension to the mandate of the existing management board. At the moment, the OPCW can't work and can't make decisions because there's this problem with its board of directors. There is therefore an eight-month extension. The nature of the amendment is urgent, because the appointment of members of the Special Houses of Mediators and Arbitrants expires on 31-7-2017. It was therefore necessary to give this extension so that the Agency could continue to operate. The next amendment concerns the service of the Special Inspectors of the Labour Inspectorate. This provides a solution to the problem of filling vacancies in special inspectors. So let's see what's going on. As it stands today, there are specific positions for Heads of Administration and specific positions for Heads of Departments. Due to the inability to fill the heads of directors, because there is not enough number of qualified persons corresponding to a director, there are empty, uncovered organic posts of the Labour Inspectorate, the Special Inspectors. Precisely because it is very necessary and there are immediate administrative needs to operate the Labour Inspectorate, especially now in the tourist season with its extensive checks, we are making this change, that is, we are changing the distribution between heads of administration and heads of department, so that all organic positions can be met. The next amendment on the 'Greek Sugar Industry', in fact, is a grant programme, an unemployment programme for people made redundant by the 'Greek Sugar Industry'. In view of the fact that there was the European Sugar Regulation, that is to say, that there were arrangements under the Union Sugar Law, the "Greek Sugar Industry" has reduced the staff. Then a programme was drafted to cover these people who were close to retirement. But then the age limits have changed, and at the moment there is a need for a slight extension for these people who are close to retirement, so that they can meet the pension conditions. Once again, the nature of this amendment is such that it forces us to bring it in at the moment, precisely because the programme is now ending. It is therefore necessary for these people to be covered. I'm just finishing up with the work doctors. I must clarify what that is, because there has been a debate which has nothing to do with the provision. By law of 2009, it was laid down that the duties of a doctor of employment may also be exercised by doctors of other specialties or doctors who are not yet qualified, who have been serving as a doctor of work and who within a certain period of time should also acquire the expertise of the doctor of work. As a certain period of time, 18 August 2017, i.e. the deadline for obtaining that specificity, expires on 18 August 2017. The number of qualified working doctors is not sufficient to meet the needs of workers and businesses. Let me make it clear that companies which must have a doctor at work are all companies which have an average of fifty workers. So we understand why it is very necessary to extend this deadline so that the circle of doctors who can provide the services of the doctor is maintained. This is necessary for both workers and business and is urgent because, as I explained, this deadline expired on 18 August 2017. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u159	Thank you, too. Amendment No 1185 ‘Amendment to the provisions of Law 4013/2011 on the functioning of the Single Independent Public Procurement Authority’ will be supported by the Minister of Economy and Development, Mr Papadimitriou. Here, Mr. Papadimitriou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u160	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the amendments tabled by the Ministry of Economy concerns the Independent Public Procurement Authority. The purpose of the amendment is to simplify the procedure for extending the powers of the authority so that it can respond to the growing public procurement area. At the same time, we are trying to increase transparency in the position of the legal counsellor by not allowing private work to be carried out on cases handled by the independent administrative authority. And finally, we are abolishing the position of assistant legal adviser, because it is not necessary because of sufficient legal staff, while in the near future we are always planning in cooperation with the Ministry of Administrative Reform the reconstruction of all the independent administrative authorities, which are under the supervision of our Ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u161	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u162	Mr President, may I speak for a moment? I would like to ask the Minister a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u163	Please have a word for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u164	Because I see that this amendment, as the Minister said, has the agreement of the independent authority, and that is why it comes in this way if it can confirm this to us. So they've asked in writing for it? Because it's important to us. We are talking about an independent authority and an intervention that is being made with this legislative initiative. It would be important - I imagine - for the legislature to know whether the independent authority has formally requested this legislative intervention from you. Because you said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u165	I didn't say that, Mr. Georgioda. I did not say that the independent authority is in agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u166	It matters, for when I get the floor, Mr President. He said the independent authority has asked for it. That's what I understood.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u167	Yes, but the Minister answered you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u168	Mr President, in the past a Minister sat down and explained the Members' questions. These things never happened again. You know that, you've been a parliamentarian for years. Can't the Minister explain?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u169	We're here to explain, Mr. Bourra!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u170	Please, ladies and gentlemen. The Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and Development will support the amendment No 1189: 'Amendment to Article 13 of Law No 1069/1980. First, projects with JHA competence may be supported by the Public Investment Programme. In addition to the provisions of Article 48 of Law No.4314/2014 and Article 21 of Law No. 4469/2017, the following provisions shall apply: Third, transitional provisions are laid down in Law 4468/2017 establishing a legal person governed by private law National Accreditation System.’ Please, you have the floor, Mr. Haritsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u171	Thank you, Mr President. This amendment, ladies and gentlemen, contains four fundamentally different regulations. First, it contains two technical regulations concerning compensation for overtime work and allowances for the special services of the NRP. It is essentially distributed equally between the Public Investment Program of the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Public Investment Programme of the Ministry of Rural Development, this price for management purposes, that is to say, that there is no excessive burden on one of the two Ministries and that this allocation should be made evenly. The second Article also provides for an extension of the time limit for the replacement of licences for technical professions. In particular, it concerns occupations related to industry, refrigeration facilities, and the combustion of liquid and gaseous fuels. That deadline was provided for by Law No 3982/2011. It is necessary to extend the deadline. I answer here and to my dear Mr. Bourra. That is why we consider it urgent to vote on this provision after - you will allow me to say - struggling requests from many professionals in these sectors, since this 2011 law contained a number of problems, which must be dealt with in a reasonable time until the transition to the new system. Therefore, this provision ensures equal treatment of all professionals and their smooth transition to the new regime. The specific amendment also provides for Article 3 to regulate matters relating to the transition to the new system, resulting from the law that we voted a few months ago on the National Accreditation System. Eligibility and administrative issues are guaranteed and transition to the new system. I would remind you that some time ago we passed a law which led to the separation of the National Accreditation System by the National Certification System provided by Law 4109/2013 and which endangered Greek exports. This arrangement requires the regulation of a number of issues relating to the administration of the new body. This provision defines these issues for the transitional phase. Finally, with the first article, which is the most important amendment, Article 13 of Law No 1069/1980 is amended and the possibility is now given of the full, 100% financing of projects by the JHA, the municipal water and sewerage companies throughout the country by the national part of the Public Investment Programme. I would remind you that this has so far been planned only for projects co-financed, that is, projects which were part of the programmes of the European Structural Funds. With this provision we can now finance and implement projects from the National Public Investment Programme 100%, without having to participate 65% of the JHA, as planned to date. This was a consistent demand from municipalities and municipal water and sewers throughout the country. We think it is a very important regulation, which enables us to implement important projects to provide water supplies to municipalities throughout the country to improve the quality of life of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u172	Thank you, too. Amendment No 1192 on the subject: 'Amendment to the provisions of Article 59 of Law No.4314/2014 on the administration of the Information Society', will be supported by the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, Mr. Gerovas. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u173	Thank you, Mr President. With the proposed amendment, the proposed provision comes to correct a procedural issue concerning the establishment of the public limited liability company 'Information Society'. In particular, reference to ‘Scientific staff’ shall be replaced, apparently, by ‘Scientific staff’. We do so, so that this condition is identical to the 'information society' rules, so that the staffing procedures can proceed. These positions - I remind you, always in place, nothing changes now - are from three-year contracts, which have the potential to be renewed once again. It is, however, clearly defined by the law that they cannot be converted into another employment relationship, that is, they cannot be done indefinitely or anything else. This is how managers operate, scientific staff in the 'Information Society'. It doesn't change anything here, it's just terminology. Also, what is being done with the proposed provision is to shield the recruitment process of these people, scientific staff, explicitly under the supervision of the AACC. In other words, a notice is issued by the 'Information Society', but after reviewing the legality of the AACC. It is a long process, but we are clearly captured in the amendment, even though the corresponding thing has been in place so far, but it has not been very shielded to ensure objectivity in the crisis, which people will be invited to do with these conventions. Let me just say that this provision does not change anything in the number of people, i.e. they do not increase.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u174	How many people are they, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u175	It's about a hundred twenty-three, if I remember well. I'm not very precise, it could be a hundred and twenty one. He's somewhere. We do not intervene in the budget or in an increase in positions with the amendment. It's one of the vacant posts. It wasn't all the things I mentioned, Mr. Georgioda. He's in the organogram how many he's in today's structure. Any evacuated or evacuated should be covered with a tender with this type of contract. In fact, the only thing that this amendment does is to change the term by'special scientific staff', which was thus written in the law, but that is not compatible with the regulation and so the procedures could not be continued. Because the programmes co-financed at this time have very great needs, change has been urgently considered, so that the possible staffing can take place in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u176	Mr President, if I may, I would like ten seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u177	Here you go, Mr. Georgioda.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u178	The Minister was informative, I just have a little question. In the fifth paragraph, you say that: "the other staff will be recruited through the provisions of Law 2190/94", while the repealed arrangement said by means of an SAPA with Law 2190/94, "by means of an SAPA" has been deleted for the other staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u179	The amendment if you look at it as a whole - I can read it out to you - analyses the steps and the procedure with regard to the supervision of the AACC.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u180	To exist in the form of...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u181	Perhaps I do not think it was for any reason because, precisely, the amendment shields the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u182	I'm going to ask it to be written.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u183	What is described in the amendment below, and you will see it, is how the criteria for the IASP intervention are defined, how applications are made.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u184	I don't disagree with that, but I'm talking about the case of the rest of the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u185	Probably mean the same thing. I'll see if you need correction, but I'll see if I'm going to have to, but I'm going to have to, uh, I'll see if I have to, uh, I'm going to, uh, I'm going to have to, uh, I'm going to, uh, I'm going to, uh, I'm
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u186	Mr President, one question...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u187	Please, Mr Theocharopoulos, would you like to speak on the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u188	I would like to ask exactly the same question, but since the Minister answered it, you have to clarify it a little. In fact, by reading it, what one understands is that scientific staff are going from the AACC and the administrative and other personnel outside the AACC. It's more like a piece of legislation that needs to be corrected.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u189	We'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u190	Thank you. The Minister for Migration Policy, Mr. Muzalas, will support the amendment under number 1176: ‘Amendment of provisions of Law No.4375/2016 and Law No. 167/2014 on the regulation of issues relating to the organisation and operation of temporary accommodation facilities for refugees and migrants’. Please, Mr Muzala, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u191	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have repeatedly told you that as a Ministry of Migration we will be dealing with exceptional amendments, understanding the discomfort you may feel. But I ask it to be understood that immigration is running in time, new problems are being created and we are also in the process, which we are trying very anxiously and fast to set up a ministry that was not there. So every single one of these comes up with administrative needs, to change things, or to discover new problems. Treatment of urban issues in reception centres and hosting structures. This is the issue of a small-scale construction licence for reception and identification centres and hosting structures. What does this thing mean? It means that Scaramaga may have to put two more containers on, that in Schisto we can do in the drainage that dug up some changes, paint some containers again. It is things that under the current regime we have been asked for permission from Planning and we have agreed to resolve them from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. With regard to the humanitarian regime in old asylum cases, this is a lasting thing in our society - and in law we are awarding humanitarian status to asylum seekers, whose application has not been examined for five years, namely, since 31 July, with the sole reservation of national security and public order. These are eight hundred applications and there are identical wording in existing law. The financial provisions shall cover all written amounts and administrative shortcomings in their collection. You can see them. There are at the General Accounting Office of the State where they will be covered and why they couldn't wait. They are the judges, let's say, who participate in the secondary committees unpaid. They're administrative employees unpaid for overtime. I want to tell you, when the Ministry started, we had 12 people in the DU. Now we're twenty-seven. The shot is for eighty-seven people. These delays are therefore justified. We are prolonging border procedures for six more months. You remember that on the basis of the Europe-Turkey Agreement, which we had voted on here, it expires on 31 September. We're nervous about it, and that's why we're bringing it now. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Last is something that I promised here when we tried to pay as soon as we could the people who were troubled. I mean the people of Moria who were destroyed and their property damaged. Then I said that we would do exactly the same for Idomeni, considering these two areas which had the greatest damage and which suffered so much stress from immigration. That's what we're doing today. We had an excellent co-operation with the mayor there in Idomeni, and we are now ready to do that. I would therefore like to tell you that in a debate that we have had with official minutes in writing with Mr Athanasios, Mr Athanasios had made a proposal - because they are not covered otherwise - to ask the European Union to open a code. I've accepted it. We are fighting this in the European Union. But we think it is our moral commitment - especially in Moria, which has become first and foremost in Idomeni now - to finish with this as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u192	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u193	Mr President, could I say something in the previous amendment concerning Mr Georgioda's question?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u194	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u195	At the end of the amendment it says: ‘administrative and other personnel are provided for in the relevant regulation of the company hired via AEP in accordance with the provisions of Law No 2190/1994’, which is the law of the ASP.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u196	He just doesn't say through ASA. He said it in the previous order.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u197	What I'm saying is that for the scientific staff it's with S.H.I.E.L.D. supervision. He's not with Law 2190.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u198	Madam Minister, if I'm not understood, I'm talking about the rest of the staff. There was a provision that said "via S.A.", which is gone in case of a...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u199	You're welcome, Mr. Georgioda. Don't have an interactive conversation. Did the Minister say...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u200	Other staff must be added. Let your partners see it...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u201	It is in case of (e) and it says "ASP". I'll come to you, see what's different.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u202	The floor has the floor for the Deputy Minister of National Defence, Mr Dimitrios Vitsas, to support Amendment No 1184: ‘Complete provisions of Article 26 of Law 4258/2014 and provide an additional amount for the completion of additional work on full operational performance of submarines’.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u203	Thank you, Mr President. To satisfy Mr Bourrai' s question, I must say that this provision has been prepared for a long time, with the aim of entering the bill of the Ministry of Finance that passed last week. However, because this was not possible because of bureaucratic procedures - let us call them this - and because the programme has left the sum of EUR 400,000, which is not enough from now on, we have brought it to a bill that is not relevant. The same provision raises the question of the completion of the necessary work in the four submarines, "PIPINOS", "OKEANOS", "MAROZOS" and "KATSONIS" and accompanying ships. As is well known, the first three are completed, to an extent that allows them to take part in operations of the Navy. The fourth is needed for the test procedure, which is why we will not find it in the shipyard but in the shipyard. And in order to have one fullness, it will take for all four a few more months. They have become some before the Navy, with the ownership of the Scaramaga shipyards, which should be restored and which have taken the project over a longer period of time. Finally, with this solution, we maintain the shipyard in operation, ensure the certification and full functionality of the defence infrastructure and the continued employment of the company's possessing an excellent know-how of labour and scientific resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u204	Thank you, too. The Minister for Culture, Mr Lydia Konordos, has the floor to support the amendment under number 1186: "Annul the existing renewal restriction of membership of the Board of Directors. Acropolis Museum at once.’
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u205	Thank you, Mr President. It is proposed to repeal the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 of Article 6 of Law 3711/2008, which limits one term of office to the renewal of the members of the Board of Directors of the Acropolis Museum, as there is no special reason to limit the renewal of the term of office. In addition, in order to remove the contradiction with Article 6(1)(b) of the same law, which provides for compulsory participation in the D.C. of members ex officio, but for which the renewal of a term of office is prevented by the repealed provision. In particular, the proposed arrangement will have positive consequences for the operation of the Acropolis Museum and in particular for maintaining its high level of provision of scientific and cultural services to its national and foreign visitors. The d.p. as it has, function harmoniously and has attributed to the successful course of the museum with international recognition. The abolition of this ban therefore ensures the functioning of the body and thereby its positive contribution to the national economy and the quality of the public administration.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u206	Thank you. We shall now proceed with the list of Members of Parliament. Mr. Dousina, MP of SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u207	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank Mr Kourakis and Mr Spartino for allowing me to change the order and speak first, because I have an unsettled obligation. I would like to go back to something Mr Mavrotas said, which I think is one of the main contributors to this bill. So he said that this bill is a left-wing idea. Without going into detail, I will say this: at the moment in the international dialogue that is taking place in the magazines of educational science, but also in the academic journals of individual sciences, there is, indeed, a dialogue and an ideological - if you like - a confrontation between two models. In this sense there are obviously some values, some worthy and fundamental principles that this bill adopts, which is a vote in a comprehensive reform programme, which covers all - I think - the levels of education. Start with Mr. Baltas, proceed with Mr. Friend and now with Mr. Gavroglou. I shall therefore, in particular, speak of the values and principles which are based on one side of this international debate and which are related to universities and postgraduate programmes. Look at that. Postgraduate is so important because a large proportion of young people throughout Europe and in the United States, of course, are undergraduate. In this sense, postgraduates acquire an extremely greater importance than they had in the past, that is to say, and give a specialization in various places but also as a basic demand to cultivate critical thinking and critical knowledge. So these two models, which are currently being discussed internationally, are on the one hand a model for which education is a right, while on the other education is a privilege. For the first, education is self-worth, and for the second it is a commodity, and for the third, the democratic principle, the basic view is that all university participants must have a say on how university education is organised. Education is a basic mechanism for creating a democratic awareness of students and teachers. I am now addressing both the Greek family and the Greek young people with the problems that exist, with unemployment, with Brain Drain and everything else. So I'll take it in turn. As far as the first model is concerned, education is a right. The right to education does not distinguish between the rich and the poor. On the contrary, education has been a traditional and historical way, a mechanism which reduces inequalities and allows social justice to be highly effective. Many of us in this Chamber are here because there was a free and public university. The opposite view sees education as a privilege and you know, according to the economic forum in Davos, Greeks richly spend five times more on the education of their children than the poor. So this mechanism when we see education as a commodity and a privilege works in the reproduction of inequality. It works in a direction which allows those who have the financial potential to send their children to the very good universities abroad and to reproduce the difference that exists. How is this done in terms of both the problems of young people and the Brain Drain? As Mr Mitsotakis said in an interview he gave to "SKAI" three days ago, which is reproduced at "Kathemerini" from where I drew it, the New Democracy's view is that we must create not only non-profit, non-public universities but also private universities to compete. What does it mean to compete in the field of education? There is competition, for who will have the most tuition fees, for who will have the coupons, for how can we compete economically, as if toothpaste education? For us academics - and Mr Mavrotas, I am sure he agrees - that competition - and he used the word'speaking' - means an exchange of arguments, through which the truth grows and comes out. That's competition for us. It means two things: having arguments, listening to the other arguments, and if you're lucky, finally making a final decision through it. So speaking to the children, the Greek young people who are currently having a problem with the situation in Greece, I want to say two things. Apart from the issues of free postgraduate subjects discussed quite a bit, this government has planned 300 million for four years for ten thousand undergraduate scholarships and seven and a half thousand postgraduate scholarships. Of course, at the teaching level, we had a thousand ICPs, which were given last year and at the beginning of the year and five hundred for the year. No other European state has made as much investment as this government has done to the young scientists, for whom there was not one place before we came to power. What, then, means competition for us, for universities? The basic task we have, dear companions and friends who are academics, is to serve the selfishness of education, to teach students not only to get into the economy, but also to be able to think, judge, deepen self and others' understanding. For the student, of course, four, five, six years at the university, it is the last period - if he is not obliged to work - in which he has free time, so that he can build his own character, his own way of seeing the world. In the interview I have just mentioned, Mr Mitsotakis expresses in relation to us, the universities, a position which the New Democracy advocates that we should bring back these excellent universities from abroad, which were on the institution councils and who were expelled. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. You understand, as a distinguished university colleague, that there is an argument here that goes to the essence of things. How did they get kicked out? "They were persecuted," said Mr.Mitsotakis, "bad by SYRIZA and by a piece of the Greek university establishment, which, due to its modesty - I am sorry to use so hard language - could not tolerate some because they had a better career than them abroad." So that's competition! A jealousy, a class hate. Because I was abroad and not Mr. Fortsakis, Mr. Fortsakis must be jealous and be against me and want to get up! This has nothing to do with what university is, what education is, what our obligations are. In postgraduate this is even more important, because it is precisely because postgraduate and doctoral are the ones that reproduce the "sinaf". They are the ones that build the new potential that will replace us academics in the future. So our obligation is even bigger there. When I hear that some colleagues get over 100% of the salary they receive from the university to teach at a postgraduate level, that some colleagues take 150 euros an hour to teach at a postgraduate level, that is where I say there is a violation of the university's basic obligation in the field of education and self-esteem. So let me finish with democracy. Look, we heard from many aspects that they should be involved in the administration of universities and students, but they should not be involved in discussions and decisions relating to academic issues, manuals, the change in the qualifications and qualifications of universities, etc. Why is that so? The New Democracy has, of course, voted against reducing the right to vote to seventeen. So the twenty-sixteen, not only the seventeen, have not yet exceeded the odour and can therefore not have an opinion on what they say!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u208	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u209	So there are two models. One is to return - as Europe returns - to the humanist education, but which is fully integrated into the needs of the time. The other is to make education a merchandise, a business, and we, the universities, see ourselves basically as an broker to make money out of the universities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u210	Thank you, too. Mr. Maximos Charakopoulos has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u211	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, anyone who is approaching the issues of education in Greece, having a general knowledge of what is happening abroad, is immediately aware of the causes of our maliciousness, which is why I was impressed by the speech of the previous professor. The ideology of populism, which, with all its branches and its transformations, has prevailed since the 1980s, has led our educational system to stagnation and regression. When most countries in the world seek ways to adapt to a time that runs with light years, our Government is trying to turn the time back to the past, abolishing and everything with a lot of trouble have been institutionalised in the past period. In particular, some of the provisions of the bill we are discussing today confirm that some refuse to see reality, they refuse to become adulterated. Undoubtedly, however, in response to the ideological obsessions accompanying the revolutionaries of the 1980s and 1970s, behind the arrangements of the law there are interests, trade unions and politicians. Why else is the study of the Ministry of Education to strengthen this permanent vagueness of asylum rather than a closure of the eye to the 'Rubics', to the kids with the hoods, to the herds of the vandals that break, destroy and always remain unpunished? It is precisely this philosophy of tolerance to lawlessness, in which the government is absolutely consistent. And it may be the only area in which it is consistent if one takes into account its infinite circumstances. For years we have witnessed sad episodes, pre-conflicts and tramps that had as their fortresses the university spaces. All that remains is the stone and molotov party outside the Polytechnic school to be included now in the capital's tourist guides! However, ladies and gentlemen of the government's majority, no matter how much you close your ears, an entire society has announced 'no more'! with this distortion left in the first post-separate period. Once the asylum guarded the ideas of arbitrary power, now protects arbitraryness from law. The students themselves now come to seek police intervention because they are at risk from drug addicts, drug dealers and marginalities outside the university, but the Minister responsible answers that they must solve a fragile student movement. I make the relevant statement in the minutes - Mr.Gavroglou's reply to "SKAI", to the students of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Maximos Charakopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It will obviously be a statement that will remain in history, along with the "excellence that is retsini" or the "cholera" which is cholera", statements glorified by the rich background of the first time left, where perceptions that lead to the cancellation of all atrocities which seek to eliminate all atrocities which seek to bring about a bottom-up simulation in the name of all equality that is transformed into a levelling-up of every talented and capable. Apart from common sense, however, it is also what is provided for in the draft legislation on the representation of students in the institutions, where they will have the right to decide whether a teacher will move from one department to another or whether an honorary doctor, an honest professor or an honorary professor. As long as you ask whether Yunker, the President of the European Commission, recently proclaimed an honorary doctor at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, in the presence of Mr. Tsipras, would take the positive vote of the student representatives for this price. These are, of course, measures which intensify the phenomena of partyism and phenomena between students and teachers, measures which perpetuate the paths of the Greek university, which have for decades been reluctant to deprive the complex of an area that should be in the forefront of our society, but instead it has become the backrest of the forces of real maintenance. Evidence of these intentions, ladies and gentlemen, is also the insistence on natural papers instead of e-election, so that we can repeat the sad phenomena with pre-conflicts, threats, thefts of candles, all that we have seen in previous years. And then you claim the sign of the progressive! What kind of progressive, though, is it that encloses the Greek university from international developments, from the possibility of developing freely, without bureaucratic stumbling blocks, with the support of the self-employed? Yet that's what the bill under discussion does. Everywhere there is a diffuse fear not to embody ideas that enhance another concept other than state-run, which you have raised into supreme ideology. A characteristic example of your ideas, the foreign language postgraduate at the Kapodistrian School of Philosophy, for which there was special interest from Chinese students. It was forbidden not to infect the SYRIZA's sanctuary and essences of education. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Greece could, however, become an international higher education centre, attracting over 100 thousand students, as the Parliament's Budget Office points out in its last quarterly report, referring to a study by the National Bank. I am tabling the relevant passage of the report in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Maximos Charakopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I firmly believe that these concepts that go through and today's bill are simply the aftermath of a time that leaves us behind. As much as they don't want her fans to admit, they belong to the past. Very soon your anachronistic policies will be scanned by developments and with them all the efficacious, anachronistic and reactionary elements with which you put wheelsets in education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u212	Thank you, too. Mr Papatheodorou, Member of the Democratic Alliance, has the floor, and then Minister Gavroglou will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u213	But are we not going to finish with the first group of speakers? Is there a regulation or does it exist? Are we going to keep him or are we not going to keep him? All the ministers spoke. They should speak at least eight speakers before the Minister takes the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u214	We told them to speak three...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u215	We either decide and order or the Rules of Parliament operate. The Minister cannot speak without hearing the speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u216	It has been agreed to speak three Members and then Minister or Parliamentary Representative. That will continue the programme. Because otherwise we cannot move on. Please, Mr. Papatheodorou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u217	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, I think we can disagree with everything, but we cannot disagree with common experience. What makes a change in universities and TEIs to blatate is, on the one hand, social and political consensus, if there is one, and, on the other hand - and it is important - whether it creates a belief in the body of the university community itself that it will be implemented. I have the impression that, unlike other changes and reforms that have taken place, this does not just form social and political consensus here, but also do not form any academic and university consensus the changes that you bring, Minister, and do not form any confidence in implementation. The main thing is that what you said before is that your aim is to have academic rules, so that there can be academic identity and perspective in universities and TEIs, I believe that there is a great difference between you and each other. We do not have the same idea of academic rules, we do not have the same idea of the academic perspective at all, because we believe that this draft law does not promote the academic perspective and the identity of universities and TEIs. Today, ladies and gentlemen, to be in agreement here too, we are not discussing a draft law on higher education, we are discussing the SYRIZA's political plan. We are discussing the institutional expression, namely the institutional response of the defeated Left to the universities, that of this Left which has never been able to formulate majorities, and the answer that comes today is with legislative work, with institutional enforcement trying to shape, even on a temporary basis, certain correlations. The draft law introduced today by the Minister for Education to discuss in the House attempts to self-justify the SYRIZA, in so far as these structures of organization and functioning proposed, these structures for the university and for the TEIs were always supported by SYRIZA and by them he unsuccessfully sought to draw power. That is why the draft law under discussion describes the university yesterday - it has nothing to do with the future of the university, with the future of the new generation - and with the strangles of the teams and the client forces. It is a deeply reactionary, backward, anachronistic, bureaucratic university and with its structure and function being removed from the European acquis of the single area of education and research. But the Minister, Mr. Gavroglou, prescribed this development, this future, which comes from the deep past, in his article in "AGEI" on July 20, 2014. It is interesting, Mr President, because it demonstrates your understanding of the university. "Considering the serious defeat of the Left in universities and that the university, as a social category, has become an extremely conservative body, a body frightened..." said the Minister. In this body today comes to enforce the anachronistic changes. And he criticised his university partners at SYRIZA, because as he said, "We gave the battle against ratings together, and then we all participated in the evaluation. Having been charged with rejecting the evaluations in full, we could not then define a strategy on these issues." That is why he today brings the concrete provisions for evaluation, which is why he is trying to manipulate the evaluation of postgraduate programmes, because it has simply always been contrary to these issues, not only to the social category of universities, but also to the reformist conquests for the structure and organisation of universities in all these years. All previous changes and reforms, acquired for universities and TEIs, were evolutionary. This regression, which looks at the deep past, simply cannot shape future conditions for the Greek universities. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Therefore, this retrograde battle for the establishment of this other university now provides for the participation and voting of students in the formation of academic issues from the field to the Senate. In other words, of course, the students will vote from now on not on student care, not on student issues, but since, Minister, you have abolished the General Assembly of Special Composition - please, Mr President, your tolerance - the students will vote for postgraduate studies, for all the issues relating to the academic identity of a department, a school or a university. At the same time, there is provision for the one-stop and separate lists for the election of the dean and the anti-writings by ballot, rather than by electronic vote, because of the correlations between them, SYRIZA has been able to represent itself at a university, which has not succeeded until now. The establishment and organization of postgraduate studies now provides for suffocation with the Ministry and the Minister and its committees. Now, listen to this, this whole procedure is foreseen without state subsidies. Nowhere in the law is the Minister talking about the state grant of free postgraduate diplomas. The prospect of such a university is predictable: Administrative chaos on the Republican councils. The delivery of institutions to dynamic minority groups and their dependent groups. Folk delusionalism about the university's so-called democratisation, in fact its pitifulness and its poorness. Eliminate the institutions' councils and replace them with bureaucratic collectives, as well as expulsion of much of the scientific capital in abstention or fleeing. So SYRIZA builds up the university of regression and misery, the university that today magnifies the class inequalities in favour of the have and at the expense of the populace. I conclude, Minister, with which I think you should do something. I think you should withdraw the inappropriate attack you made on Greek universities two days ago when you referred to postgraduate programs and teachers paid from them, saying: "If the good people are to leave abroad because they are not paid, I urge them to leave." That's what you said. Who's to leave? The highly prestigious teachers who created the majority of graduates in Greece and have won international and European discrimination? To leave thousands of teachers working in postgraduate programmes and produce research and innovation, producing wealth for the country? To leave those whose research is not only a source of knowledge, but a source of wealth for the institutions themselves, when bringing multiples of money to the institutions, which are underfunded by the State? Should teachers who have suffered more than 40% reduction in their wages during the crisis and remain in the Greek universities to keep them upright? They're leaving? All of these things go abroad because the Minister disagrees with their participation in programmes of this type and at the same time the Ministry and the majority Members of the majority must speak of the positions to be opened for young scientists. How many young scientists have been hired to this postgraduate with a tuition or with a fee?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u218	Say a number, Mr. Comrade. Check it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u219	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u220	I shall conclude, Mr President. I think that all of this should lead to the overthrow of the atrocities of academic teachers and universities. We at these teachers say they stay. We tell them to resort to justice for the unconstitutionality of the law. We tell them to contribute to overthrowing political correlations and overthrowing the SYRIZA at universities. To these teachers, we say, this law comes from the deep past and has no future. Its expiry date is the same date as the end of that government which is on the way out, and its fall is on a daily basis. The future lies in education, and this future must be served, not with the eyes in the past, but with the conquests that remain on the European acquis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u221	Mrs. Gerovali has been asking for the floor for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u222	I shall refer to a legislative improvement in order to solve the misinterpretation we had with colleagues before. After the words ‘the company is hired’ the words ‘via APA’ are added, the missing one. I'm filing it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u223	Thank you. The Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr. Gavroglou, has the floor for eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u224	Thank you, Mr President. I will not be tempted to respond to certain categories, because if it were to score some speeches as student work, they would all have to be cut off because they lack an elementary argument. Indirectly and immediately I will respond to some issues by reading them. Our government has been trying to restore democracy to broken landscapes in our society for two and a half years. One of these broken landscapes is the area of education. Democracy in education means the introduction of academic rules, it means respect for its employees, it means respect for students and students, it means ensuring that critical knowledge is consolidated. We are preparing for the gradual introduction of fourteen-year compulsory education, a vision of decades that we are sure will start to implement. Our interventions in primary and secondary education, our initiatives to strengthen the teaching of children with disabilities, have repeatedly been mentioned in this Chamber. But the peak of our reform program is our interventions in high school, mainly in the second and third grades. The big question that needs to be dealt with in our society is whether we will be an annulled high school society, a society where the educational processes of high school will be carried out by foreign institutions toward public education. Of course, this will lead us to the radical reform of the procedures for admission to the IOIs, procedures that strengthen a system based on the parrot, a system which has absolutely no educational and pedagogical dimension and captures the daily life of tens of thousands of young people in our country. Today's way of entering universities will soon be a past. As in many other aspects of our social life, the policy of previous governments has led to the deregulation of their everyday lives. It was the prerequisite for a regime to go ahead with the depreciation of public institutions. Deregulation was a prerequisite for the reappointment of public school and university and therefore for the gradual legitimisation of the privatization of educational institutions. But they reasoned without the training officials. Despite the few willing teachers, school teachers and university professors who contributed to the project of undermining public education, the vast majority of our teachers strongly reacted and defended the daily life of our primary schools, our high schools, our high schools, our high schools and our higher education institutions. The majority was there to defend and improve a daily life for which the state was indifferent for decades, a daily life for which we have not yet managed to give what is necessary for teachers to be able to do their job. With the incomplete logistics and staff needs intensified every year, as the needs are increasing and increasing, our teachers have done and accomplished an admirable work, a work that goes beyond the task that the state has entrusted them with, but which responds to their high sense of duty towards a society in crisis. However, our Government's attempt to create a new regularity, to reopen democracy and to try to reopen all the arrangements that we are proposing to have in favour of those social groups facing all kinds of difficulties, finds the rampant reaction of minorities who have a great deal to lose from our initiatives. The establishment of academic rules to renew the public school and the public university is threatening. It threatens those who are dissatisfied and who use these institutions to their own advantage. It threatens those who believe that our public institutions must be a source of enrichment and indeed at the expense of other colleagues, at the expense of the new scientists who are outside these institutions and ultimately at the expense of the society from which they demand to pay for something they have built and maintained. The introduction of rules, however, also threatens those who want to be dissatisfied by promoting education with a tragicly downgraded social role. With this bill and despite the incredible undermining that has been made in the public speech and in the mass media, we are introducing new institutions for the first time in the history of the Greek University. We introduce the creation of two-year structures within our higher education institutions to which graduates of professional high school will have privileged access and which at the end of the two-year period will be able to obtain a professional certificate of European qualifications. We are introducing for the first time the academic regional councils in which they co-exist - I insist again - for the first time the representatives of universities, the representatives of the TEIs and the representatives of research centres, trying to see what proposals can be made for the development of the regions where universities, TEIs and research centres will play an extremely important role and will certainly not be dissatisfied. Any initiatives taken must be in agreement with these institutions. We are accused of being unclear without ever telling exactly what unclearness is. Third Innovation: The Centre for Vocational Training and Lifelong Learning must have each university and TEI. Lifelong learning is an extremely important function of our higher education institutions fully degraded, with great disciplines at the expense of young children and adults seeking training and lifelong learning. Now for the first time it's settled, it's under the scientific supervision of universities. And, of course, we are on two controversial issues: first, the procedures for the selection of masters. I have not heard so much about what those who oppose it are suggesting. What do they suggest? The existing regime? The current regime in which the Foundation Councils chose candidates in a European country?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u225	It used to be. Change that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u226	But we do not hear what system you want. Or were the old ones, which were supposedly intergroups with a full-fledged complication with party youths? Don't laugh, because you know them better than me, obviously, because you've exercised and commanded, Mr. Papatheodorou. So what do we say? We say that, from a list, the budgets will be elected, another ballot will be elected by the counter-enlargements. They'll be elected counter-progressors, because the university community wants to vote for faces, doesn't want to vote for groups. This will also ensure a huge representativeness of the university body. But there's something else. The first thing you're saying is "with the place they sit at the same table, they'll fight." We're talking about consents. You say 'education is a national issue and so on'. I don't understand why they have to fight as soon as they sit on the same table. Are university people fighting every day and we haven't figured it out? These are all the decisions 'five: six', 'four: three', etc.Huh? Aren't there any consensus? Aren't there huge majorities? Do not, then, inform our society in the wrong way. I also want it to be clear what we say with the foreign language departments. What we are saying is that they must cooperate with the International University that has the know-how. Don't ever hear of her having nine professors at the International University. Lessons can be made by the Departments or counties that will cooperate, too. Because there are very serious constitutional and European legal problems in the autonomous functioning of these departments. The bill we are tabling is the first bill to launch the gradual creation of the single area of higher education and research, with the participation of universities, TEI and research centres in the institution, as I have said, of regional councils. The importance of the single area of higher education is the equivalent of the 1982 reform. At that time, the issue was the efficient use of the scientific potential that remained inactivated by the headquarters regime. Today, the issue is the exploitation of the huge potential and infrastructure available in universities, TEIs and research centres. Human resources and infrastructure must be connected functionally and produce added value, which is not currently the case in the way they operate. The bill promotes the promotion of the poles of higher education, i.e. universities and TEIs, on the basis of the maturation that has taken place in the past fifteen years after the higher education and the mission they are accomplishing. Those who were cut for merit were deprived of the TEIs by a common framework of academic status with the universities. I would like to mention these initiatives in more detail. This is something that has been made public in a completely opposition way. For decades, polytechnic schools have been asked for the recognition of the five-year degree as a single master degree. We recognize it for the first time. In 2009 a committee led by an emblematic personality of our letters, Professor of the Polytechnics, Mr. Tasios, produced such a report. We adopt this report and go further and say that this very privilege will have, a privilege that will have no effect on wages, will also lead to the possibility of unfolding another bucket called "the professional rights of graduates of the TEI". You know that for many decades there has been an extremely serious loose end to the recognition of professional rights for graduates of TEI. Our proposal is to proceed immediately with the drafting of a Presidential Decree with the professional qualifications of the graduate engineers of the TEI, through the meetings of a committee composed of representatives of the multi-technical schools, the Departments of Engineering and experts made up of the two institutions at an absolute level. Here too, we must welcome the initiative of the Technical Chamber of Greece to join its members and graduates of the TEI. That this has not been the case for so long has been a paradox. Of course this decision is only a very good start. However, the right and rapid steps must be taken to ensure that the logistical situation of TEI engineers is fully settled in conjunction with their professional rights. In other words - and let us note this - initiatives are intensified to create a climate of confidence, because a problem that has divided engineer communities for so many decades will not be solved by pressing a button. However, I am sure that the conditions are mature so that engineers can also propose solutions on an equal footing. We are sure that there will also be people, perhaps bodies who do not want such a course. They want to maintain a war climate. Knowing that society will ignore them and invite them to leave their opposition to other cases. We've been accused of equating the universities with the TEIs. TEIs, ladies and gentlemen, are higher education institutions. Their teachers are in selective colleges of university professors and participate in doctoral committees. There is a reality here, which we must recognise and salute. There is now an excellent potential at TEIs, highly qualified teachers, workshops that would envy large universities abroad, research infrastructures and high-performance groups. This potential some, rather jealousy, say, go back to their original mission. Mr Arvanitopoulos said so emphatically with his statements. We do not destroy everything that has been labored. The Athens project has done so with great zeal, the disastrous consequences of which we are constantly called upon to correct. We build what's good and upgrade it. And this is done in the TEI law, so that society and especially youth can benefit from it. We are starting with symbolic but very important common names of the institutions, we are improving the definition of role in the field of higher education, to which they already belong. We give the right to self-regulatory doctoral supervision of TEI teachers to universities, but more importantly it is that the process begins to define criteria and procedures for the organisation of doctoral studies and from the TEI departments. Compounded with the upgrading of higher education is the process initiated for the establishment of a University of Western Attica with the association of the TEIs of Athens and Piraeus. With academic and evaluation criteria, we are moving towards the creation of a multi-university education, which will also be in touch with the development prospects of Western Attica. The dynamics that will be liberated from this process will also have multiplier benefits throughout Greece, finally opening the way for synergies of regional universities with TEI. The last point I wish to raise, ladies and gentlemen, is an issue which, indirectly, but with great clarity, has been raised by several speakers. And that has to do with the payroll they receive university teachers from postgraduate students with tuition fees. As I told you, the vast majority of university teachers are doing a major job and we are talking about a, about 15%. So let us come to something that is very much discussed among teachers at the TEIs, but, for reasons that will be understood in a short time, many people do not dare to discuss it in public. Up to now, teachers at the HEIs can double their salaries with an extra pay from postgraduate curriculum. I say it once again, they can double their wages every month! Obviously, they do not all make use of this right and our calculations conclude that this is from about 15% of teachers. We say that the additional remuneration from teaching in postgraduate courses does not exceed 30% of their monthly earnings. But there's one more thing we're talking about. In order to be able to receive this remuneration, they must teach at a postgraduate for free, Mr Mavrotas, not a free postgraduate. In another postgraduate school to teach for free. This logic is dictated by the need for the state to ensure that everyone has access to postgraduate without tuition. Moreover, if a postgraduate programme now has so many resources to be able to pay this extra payroll to teachers first, it will be obliged to proceed with the call for the post, where young scientists will be able to receive this fine. Young scientists are our own students, who are unemployed now, with doctorals, with research programs that they have done abroad and who have returned to their country. Is it possible for those who have a wage to want the doors to be closed for young scientists? Many respond, because they want to be able to pay up to double their wages, arguing that our wages are 'low'. But in other countries, wages are low, not just Greek, but this unprecedented peculiarity of public resources is not present. Let us first point out that the vast majority of teachers in postgraduate studies are not paid a penny beyond their normal salary. They teach, in other words, free of charge. Don't they have financial problems? So, the "poor" universities claim extra payroll, while everyone else is rich universities and teach without an additional salary, so for their fun? Or are all those who pay extraly the good, are the great people, as we read in the papers? What does that mean? Does it mean that all those who do not pay a premium are not good? And, of course, postgraduate is not the only way one seeks to increase his wages. There is participation in research programmes and for which they can apply and take them. One more thing, though. There are many who have a wage, while young scientists, who could do the lessons and be paid, are many and many of them have no work. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] Do you understand what's behind this innocent request? The innocent request to pay something above that those who teach postgraduate with tuition leads to higher and higher teachings, creates inequality, leaves young scientists out of universities, creates complications as to who will do the lessons for which the extra bonus is available, creates the phenomenon of tutoring teachers, who travel through many postgraduate to graph extra income. In fact, some of these colleagues are not enough at 100%, so they choose to disguise additional teachings in postgraduate, as a free profession with blocks, which allows them to be paid without a cap. So they have the courage to go to the EPPs of their foundation and to be rewarded as free professionals from the university at which they serve as public officials for teaching at their own or other university. This, if it is innovation, progress and modernisation to those who blame us for taking things back. And after all of these arguments have been exhausted, the few, fewer academics through the incredible difficulties in the social media that they have, in newspapers and televisions, put forward their friendly tactics: the blackout of the Minister and at the same time a threat to society. The Minister - they say - is obsessed, takes us back, is overconcentration and does not want competition in the universities, which will improve them. And if all of this does not make the government think, then there is the great threat. In other words, those who take the extra fine will leave the country, since we do not encourage them to teach. Postgraduate will be closed, the children of poor families will have no place to study, while the rich will have the opportunity to go to other countries because there will be no postgraduate here. It was impressive how this account was written and reproduced by so many in so many media and newspapers. Of course, it doesn't surprise us. Really, the financial element is the only incentive to do postgraduate courses? Isn't it an incentive to teach the next generation of scientists? How, really, is it possible that they want you so much abroad and stay here because you're taking the payroll and when that's reduced to threatening that you're leaving? Bugs, obviously out! They want some enthusiastically, but they do not leave because they can double their wages in Greece. And once we remove that possibility, they'll go to foreign universities, which, with their fruitfulness, wait for so many years! Do not humiliate yourself when you repeat similar arguments. And the ultimate threat: they'll close the masters, the rich will go abroad and the poor - they tell us - they'll have no place to go. We had not understood for so many years that the care of those who double their wages by raising the tuition fees of postgraduate students was the welfare of poor students. We didn't realize they were doing it for the sake of the poor. And yet, these ridiculous subjects, this ridiculous argument has been written and rewritten, said and re-examined by forming a public account that, like many others, is based on reasonable but completely to the point of view. I conclude by stressing what kind of academic rules we put together. For the first time, an audit will be carried out if student charges are calculated according to cost rather than demand. It's public. It's still our universities. Don't forget. For the first time, we have introduced an obligation to accept postgraduate programmes free of charge for students who do not have the financial capacity to pay tuition fees but who meet the criteria for admission. For the first time, there is a limit to the extra pay that can be obtained from postgraduate courses, provided that no young people with specialization are found to do their own courses. For the first time, non-self-powered departments will not be able to organise themselves postgraduate courses, but they will have to organise it in cooperation with self-powered departments. It's something I didn't hear you say. Do you want there to be classes like now with zero staff, organizing postgraduate courses? Do you understand the deregulation that has taken place? Do you understand why some of you do not want the Ministry to be able to return in accordance with the decision of the Council of State? That's why we're saying that for the first time rules are in place. Academic rules come in and the Ministry has the only opportunity to see whether these academic rules are met within the general framework of the decisions of the Council of State. Otherwise academicity must be safeguarded by those academics, who are fortunately too many and fortunately all these years have shown that they have a social function regardless of the very serious economic problems they already have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u227	Parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Incorporation, Mr Theocharopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u228	They have spoken only three speakers. You have made the Rules of Procedure a rag card. It's a disgrace!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u229	After Mr. Theocharopoulos, three will follow. You don't have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u230	Dear Ministers of the Ministry of Education, we had the entire Ministerial Council here a moment ago, we had a multi-plier plan with amendments, and only Mr Tsipras and Mr Tsipras were not here to present them. Now you're from the Ministry of Education to talk about the bills. I heard you, Minister, say about the speeches of the Vice-Presidents that they were cut off by the students. That's a disgrace.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u231	They're cut off by the teachers as a student's job.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u232	I say to you that it is a disgrace to the role of Members here, and you should have been much more careful not to speak in terms such as 'global arguments' and other such expressions that you said a moment ago. You said at the same time that the government is trying to restore democracy to various areas. What's that now? You said we didn't have a democracy before 2015? Again the same arguments you were saying in the Opposition? Let me leave how you are trying to restore democracy and how you attack the decisions, as government, the Council of State and all the supreme courts of the country. But is it possible with such arguments in the Greek Parliament to discuss such serious bills? And at the same time you said that the opposition speech should be left aside. But we choose national understanding, that is what we are looking for, and not reasonable social automation, such as the ones that are developed by your government, and we have heard them a little while ago, one category of academics toward the other, young teachers toward the others. It is not possible to go along with that logic. We need social cohesion and not social automation. Ladies and gentlemen, the delusions and obsessions of the SYRIZA Government - ANLL continue. In the field of education this time they will hurt the educational system, which has all the resources to help overcome the crisis, give perspective and reason to stay and create the new generation at its place. Progressive areas and consultation are required in this crucial national issue, but not in stagnation, not in regression, but in the profound changes and progressive reforms that are needed today. The bill does not testify to any vision of the Greek universities, nor does it effectively and effectively respond to changes in their pathogens. Under no circumstances is an integrated institutional intervention in the organization of EITs. The list of arguments that degrade your account is long, but what concerns us is not the degradation of your policy, it has already been degraded. We are concerned with liberating higher education from what is currently engaging in it, riding it of tight embrace with the state, inexperience, syndicate logic, providing it with a modern operational and flexible framework for its administration, operation and development. Five are the central issues of the bill, which unfortunately proves once again that education becomes an area for the exercise of a so-called left, but in fact a deeply obsessed policy. You don't try fleeing forward, but go backwards. First, postgraduate studies. We are clearly in favour of regulating the landscape, which has indeed had many problems. You're the ones who pretend to bring scanning changes, how you safeguard the right to free school. Obviously, we consider the social necessity to be a social necessity, obviously, and we agree with the release of the candidates to postgraduate programmes with low incomes from the students' fees. However, we fully disagree with the way you are dealing with the second cycle of study in general. The arrangements you bring about for postgraduate studies are restrictive for the autonomy of institutions and away from the rationalisation and transparency of their operation. I will not bring back what we discussed in the first round of the debate here. You don't have to. I think it was exhausted at the beginning of today's debate. Instead of making it easier for students to do their homework. The earnings in our country are low in relation to every other country in Europe and after years of study, in order to take these positions - you know that very well - at the cost they have given, so that they can have these positions, and for years. And you are well aware of the area of education in this area. So in the low earnings in our country you add bureaucracy and push them to abstain from carrying out the administrative work and taking up research programmes. That's where this bureaucracy leads. While we are all proud of the research work produced by universities, rather than your Government improving the framework within which this work is produced, it makes it more complicated. Plus, he's trying to control it. How do we talk about the extroversion aid, for example? It is necessary to extrovert and innovate the institutions. There is room for such a debate when we do not actually open the way for postgraduate students from abroad. Why doesn't he open up with your bill? How do we talk about extroversion when research and innovation in our country are many? A few months after the vote on the research bill, you are suddenly and without consulting a large number of research provisions which constitute another mini-legislative bill. I am referring to Rule 69. Even if some of them are positive, how can we respond to this fragmentation and clandestineness? Secondly - and here I would like your attention - to be a sanctuary. So since you were unable to plan and implement any reform of education, you are now throwing a little left dust - that is what you are doing - so that your legislation is not considered politically neutral. You started from the "free postgraduate for all" to continue with the asylum. It is clear that there is asylum of ideas throughout society today, but let's see what happens at the Greek university. Everywhere every Greek today can express himself freely, without feeling a threat, precisely because our democratic institutions ensure protection against possible attacks by groups that disagree with his views. At the university, however, if a group disagrees with the views of a teacher, it can interfere with even violence or threat of violence - I am not talking about criminal action at the moment - and either fade or try to fade the different expressions, precisely because there is no body to defend the proper functioning of democratic institutions. Democracy, however, cannot exist without defence instruments. All we have earned today is the fall of views from the threat of violence by groups that are declared to be in favour of violence. You allow public power to be intervened in premises of the HEI on its own initiative in cases of crimes and crimes against life and following a decision of the Rector Board in any other case. In other words, to make it clear that the Republican Council must be convened and decide whether or not the authorities will be called, and in the meantime the violation will have already taken place. This policy is not a left! And because in New Democracy you have been looking for the left after Mrs. Keramos said that "the Left has given important struggles for the place and the government of SYRIZA is euphemistically left" - well said and badly the hard wing of the Right Wing of the New Democracy Party attacked Mrs. Kerameos - I will tell you on this matter what is left for example. Is that what the late Leonidas Kyrikos said in 2010, dear and dear Members of SYRIZA? He said: "What exists only is a ridiculation of the concept of asylum and the prestige of the academic community and especially of students and the establishment of a genuine asylum for the movement of ideas". Do you agree or do you not agree with this view? It is obvious from the legacy of what you bring, that you do not agree. Dear SYRIZA colleagues, stop treating the asylum issue with ideologies and obsessed. What must be ensured is the free movement of ideas and not the treatment of any infringement in the field of universities or of tolerance in it. Third. Another point is that you do not guarantee an effective and transparent way of running the EITs, with consensual institutions and without the service of interests. Fourthly, you say that you are strengthening the representativeness of the administrative bodies, the consolidation of democracy and the pluralism of the institutions. But let's not be fooled. You do not ensure with the arrangements that you bring about an effective and transparent way of running the IMIs, with consensus institutions and free from service of interest. Obviously, you refer to the participation of students in all the institutions. But let us be clear and honest in order to avoid a new populism. Obviously, we support student participation. We consider, however, excessive the involvement of students in administrative and financial matters. We would not be opposed to student participation if it were clearly stated that their representatives would have the right to vote on matters of student care. But here, the government's republics are enormous, since at first they wanted student participation in the election of the institutions and now that students' representatives vote on all issues on the agenda at the General Meetings of the Chambers, both on the TBP and on the curriculum. Fifthly, you are shooting at the project for the single area of higher education and research. I heard you a moment ago talking about the need for the single higher education and research area. So I will tell you why you are firing this necessity with your bill, to us, the single area of higher education and research. After two and a half years in the government there is no strategic planning on this issue. Where is the single area when different wages for researchers and academics are introduced again, for example? What are you doing to promote this unification? You are asking us with Article 5, which provides for the establishment, merger, partition, rename, abolition of an IEO seat, to give you a white check. But has SYRIZA - ANEL Government brought a plan that will respond to the geographical isolation, fragmentation or overlapping of academic institutions? I have heard you say about the oldest projects, about the "ATHENA" project, and I see what you are doing. Adher to actions that intensify dispersion, confirm your rhyphetological perception. You plan to establish a Polytechnic School at the University of the Aegean Sea, based in Samos and partition of the Department of Mathematics of Samos in two separate departments. Do you remember that once you fooled? SYRIZA was making fun of these, saying that there can't be any growth like that. Is there any design? Where, in what areas, in which branches, in which areas of the country? This area and that section may be needed. But is there any design?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u233	But there is, Mr. Comrade...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u234	You will answer, Minister, then. You're not putting an end to pathogens. You broaden them and create new ones. But in this way, you are expressors of the old and not of the new that the country needs. What is important is, above all, the single map of higher education, by creating educational poles in each region, to which universities, technological institutes and research centres will co-operate, so that economies of scale can be achieved. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, this is another chance lost. Is it, in fact, deceptive or conscious ideological choice that is being baptized as a delusion? There can be no progressive change unless we invest in education unless we draw up a clear integrated and effective modern national strategy based on international practices. It is not possible in the field of education to go with models of older decades that have passed, not only in our country, but everywhere. The risk of the country's universities falling apart today is visible if populism continues if this introvertible logic prevails. Sectors and excesses are required. They are the ones we are planning for the Democratic Alliance. We are here against every right-wing or left-wing maintenance, in order to live up to the vision of education, the country, to be the new generation here, to be present in developments, to finally change this policy in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u235	Mr. Hadjisavvas from Golden Dawn has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u236	Thank you, Mr President. We have heard the Minister say today that it is not within the limits of the parliamentary dialogue to say that we are going through a dark period of education, but at the same time to say that democracy was restored in 2015. So what they did as Opposition by 2015 was within the limits? Could anyone do it today without being expelled from the Chamber? And to remember, when we talked about restoring democracy, how was it restored in 2015? It was restored with a third and a fourth memorandum, signed by you and, of course, by a referendum that, as former Minister of Government said, did not leave you the "yes", because the people said "no" and forced to change it. You've been trying this morning to convince us that there's a very serious issue, which is the unconstitutionality of teachers in postgraduate schools, like they're making all our children free of charge, without any need for money from their families, and suddenly they're falling on the wall of postgraduates. He wants money from the M.D. You're going there for free. You're not paying anything. They don't need any money from anyone. Either way, however, they are not entitled to speak of unconstitutionalism by those who have signed memos and assigned national sovereignty and have violated every article and every law of the Constitution. Of course, the expression of the opinion that if there is no remuneration for postgraduate degrees there is no incentive is tragic and sad and indicative of the situation. It's another thing to say that I'm not being paid enough, and I want my salary to be increased, and I want you to say that my only motive is that. Otherwise, if you don't pay me, I'll leave abroad. So you'd do well not to pay them, release them and leave outside those who don't want to sit and have no other motives. This bill was supposed to come at a certain moment. He came and is being discussed with the normal procedure, but you promised that it would not happen after the end of the training year. But it was in the summer, with the result that we had more comprehensive legislative debates that were urgent and urgent, rather than the one that came under the normal procedure. There are a number of amendments, mainly unnecessarily with the bill, with a drop in work for some workers in the Greek Sugar Industry, who were voting here and you were proud to be saved, prevented, thankfully found what was to be done. You are bringing huge amendments, such as that of the Ministry of Migration Policy. We also had some statements from the Minister, of course, that we would have a great deal of trouble if the European Union cut funds for migration flows. I had heard what's in the surrounding atmosphere. It is the preparation of public opinion that the entire financial burden will be borne by the Greek taxpayer for the migration flows. The provisions say that it is to ensure the effective response of the hospitality needs of illegal immigrants, etc., while at the same time focusing on environmental protection. What environmental protection? You built all over the Hot spots. You've placed everything you can imagine without permission. You rinseed trees, squeezed streams, canals, and Hersus and Idomen and Nea Kavala. I went and made complaints everywhere, in technical services, in municipalities, in districts, police, town planning, firefighting. There's nothing to be done, because the Army's doing it. There's nothing to be done. To clean up one's plot of bushes and dry trees, it takes five years to get permission from the Forestry. They go over there, clean them up, to build the Hot spots, and whatever else remains burn it down then, not to cook or warm them up. We are therefore calling for a return of responsibilities for what has been done and what is to be done. Do not go through amendments covering all of this. We have, of course, also asked dozens of questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs why it is too late to make compensation for the damaged property in the regions. Make it as fast as you can. It has been over a year since people expect to be compensated. I hope it happens sometime. Now, as far as the private education and the disabled children are concerned, you have returned the request made in their letter as unacceptable, I agree, is unacceptable. If there are private training courses that do not have the infrastructure to accommodate or incorporate children with disabilities, then obligate them to acquire the infrastructure. If they've got them and they don't, turn them off. And now we're going to the public. Does the public all have infrastructure and can they welcome such children? I mean, can a school manager come out and say I have an entry station? The teacher came to the beginning of the year and due to a workload he now gets continuously unpaid leave and cannot join the children of the department. Now I'm talking about light forms, that is, dyslexia and all that. Parents are forced to pay a special therapist, a therapist, a psychologist, a special attendant. You are also trying to convince us that higher education institutions are ready to attract foreign students and that they are attractive. Do you have a picture of what situation training institutions are? It is a sad situation: buildings destroyed, equipment looted, an illegal man. Because from all over the world, professional NGOs have now gathered together with other offenders and have found asylum within the universities. We have rapes, thefts, even murders, drugs. Is that a matter of asylum? The debate on asylum is void anyway, because there is a total lack of political will. So what happened before? Is the asylum coming today? Yesterday there was no asylum? In New Democracy, which is now being cut, was there or was there no asylum? If there was asylum, why didn't they curse it to do the right thing? If it didn't exist, why didn't they solve the problem? Samaras said he'd take out the hoods. Did he take off the hoods? He put hoods on some false witnesses for the Golden Dawn. That is how it is defined - and defined - by some freedom of expression. Her regulators are mostly pilgrims, cranes. We know that. Anyone who doesn't like the stadium of the rival party goes and breaks it. That's the tactic. We have total corrosion and destruction of educational institutions from party youth. We all know how some learn, how they get notes, depending on where they belong. We as a People's Movement - Golden Dawn have of course integrated proposals for both management and educational staff, so that education can finally function properly and as it should, not with ideals, but with one truth, which is love for our country and nation. We have now heard your former colleagues at the Ministry say education needs radical change. For example, the school bell wakes up - it says - class memories and images of oppression of the working class from capital in the fabric! Well, we're talking about having huge reserves. What friend, Baltas, Ignorestopoulou? There's a back thing... But since you like algorithmic thinking, as many institutions have said, many government MPs, and also counter-population, let us consider this algorithm that would solve this problem. We have to look at some conditions. First Treaty: SYRIZA - ANEL. They had philosophical politics as their flag. They were in their DNA. Did they manage to do anything about it? Did they raise the wages where they were before the memoirs? Oh, no. Were they reinstated the pensions where the memoirs were before? Oh, no. Did they do anything with HISPIA and everything else? Oh, no. Second Treaty: Can anything positive come from a SYRIZA Government - ANEL on national issues and education? I categorically state 'no'. The best thing you can do and offer home is not to engage in education. Don't touch her at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u237	Mr. Synthrakis, Member of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u238	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA - ANEL co-government with this draft law speeds up the procedures for adapting higher education and research to the roadmap of the memorandums, the OECD and the European Union directives, by promoting reciprocity, entrepreneurship and competition at universities. This draft law contains arrangements for HEIs, TEIs, research centres, promoting their operation on the basis of privatization criteria, with consequences for both their educational and research activity and for workers in the field. With these arrangements, regardless of individual differences, all the parties on the Euromonstrate agree, the Republican authorities, without entering into the substance of the draft law. What institutionalizes the draft law, at the same time highlighting the substance, which is the transformation of knowledge, of science, of new knowledge, of research and of its effects into goods? You are establishing tuition fees in postgraduate studies, representation of chambers of commerce on councils to draw up the HI strategy at regional level, further conversion of HEIs and research institutions to enterprises providing and marketing educational and research products to secure their own resources for their operation, salivate degrees and titles, consolidate and enhance the shrinking of state funding. The JRC is categorically contrary to the proposed regulations of Chapter I concerning the specific research funds accounts of the IRC and their framework of operation: purposes, resources, sources of funding, management and management of funds, management of organs and others. This is a framework that ties up institutions and workers in the pursuit of business groups with a view to improving their profitability. The reactivity of the draft law is seen as follows: First, the cash resources of the PPE, the special accounts, namely, the Bank of Greece and the Public Debt Management Account, are transferred to the mainstream of the investigation, depriving them of the necessary resources. Secondly, at least 30% of the annual revenue of the PPE is transferred to the regular budget of the centres with a view to cutting the state grant. Thirdly, 30% of the annual revenue is transferred by the PPE to the EMI budget. In practice, it means exempting the state from liability to cover the financial needs related to aspects of their operation, such as preservation and cleanliness, since the EPP's money is assigned to those of state funding. Fourthly, it is a mockery of 5% of the cash available to go for scholarships and research educational programs of young scientists, when a new bleeding of the EU's cash available for unfinanced defects resulting from underfunded shortfalls has already taken place. Fifthly, the performance of a different LAG to the PPE of the research centres, which are legal entities governed by public law, leads to their complete segregation under the pretext of speeding up procedures by transforming these legal persons, managing their works and their property into a clear vine of business groups. And sixthly, the unacceptable status of fixedterm works contracts or works contracts to an IEI, TEI, research centres, excluding any contract for an indefinite duration or any conversion thereof into an indefinite one, and not necessarily through funding the university or the state budget in general. It concerns postgraduate, doctors, postdoctors, contractors, research assistants and other cases, and it does not specify whether employers' contributions are deducted from the amount of the contract signed by the employee or additional costs in the budget. Because of this issue - and you know it - there are considerable delays in payments to too many workers. Overall, this draft law binds universities and research centres to the needs of the capitalist market. Underfinancing becomes a vehicle to intensify institutions' business bishops, since instead of claiming and increasing state funding, institutions will increasingly pursue commercial agreements with businesses to meet their essential operational needs. The JRC's position on the EMIs and their real role within the HEIs in relation to research, with businesses, with the concentration of research in LAG groups that are directly related to market forces, with the allocation of funds, through the formation of power relationships within universities, through the development of degenerative phenomena and even corruption in scientific institutions, has been fully justified. The PPE-DEPs should be abolished. It is a 'democratic horse' in order for business groups to perish research, production of new knowledge and its implementation in capitalist production to be enriched. Ladies and gentlemen, a pillar of the JRC's perception is the position that research is a social need and frees man's productive potential. However, it cannot be developed in the context of entrepreneurship and competition. It can, however, be developed through the liberalisation of domestic production capacities as a result of centralised scientifically organized economic planning on the territory of socialised means of production. Thus, it can contribute to the development of production in the development of the country's rich production sources, both for the needs of industry and for meeting the needs of the people's family, for example by producing and providing cheap electricity and heating, improving the health of the people with cheap medicines and new treatments, studying and addressing social phenomena and problems, improving the quality of life and living conditions of the working people with care for the environment and much more. Objectively, therefore, there are two strategies linked to the two development paths of the Greek society and the economy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. One is related to maintaining the power of monopolies and exploiting education, research, to serve their profitability. This road serves this draft law. The development path proposed by the JRC is about now, giving the perspective for the future. It can ensure the nature of genuinely uniform and higher education, public and free of charge, without unscientific and obsolete separations of university and technological research, without courses of study with scientific expertise at undergraduate level, with postgraduate studies leading to doctoral, research based on popular needs, a production that will truly serve people's needs. In order to achieve this, however, there is a need for a society with labour control, with socialized means of production, with a centralised design of the economy, which will effectively abolish entrepreneurship in universities, it will subjugate science and research to the satisfaction of people's needs and not profit. And this society is no more than socialism. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u239	Thank you, too. Mrs Marku has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u240	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the House is today discussing a draft bill of what - supposedly - gives the SYRIZA seal in that they do not fall within the hard core of agreements with creditors. Mr Drasakis, recently in love with the markets, said yesterday that they would offer freedom of movement to the government, because, as they say, the SYRIZA Members unjustifiedly justify us getting us out of the committee. In other words, it was not the government under comitology. After the last revelations of the giant Varoufakis, here would have become Venezuela. In Venezuela, however, it is today in higher education with this unexpected bill by Mr. Gavroglou. I'm not going to focus so much on the law's popular monstrosities. Many speak of deportation from all sorts of trade unionists, party youths or criticise the abolition of the board of commands. Let me tell you that the institutions, the legislatures, have become bureaucratic agencies, which are increasingly reminiscent of public service. University writings will not be shared in September, because you owe publishers two years. Congratulations! And this is your work. Unfortunately, too, there is already a huge deterioration due to the crisis. The funding from 2009, according to the dean of the IMP, has been reduced by 75%. The departure of the worthy teachers is great and the staff are old now. In addition, who from abroad will come with the EUR 1,500 and if, while abroad, the basic salary is definitely beginning with the EUR 5,000? I will focus my speech on the most important issue, which, in my opinion, is absolutely central and essential, since it is linked to funding and therefore to the survival and competitiveness of universities. I am, of course, talking about postgraduate diplomas, for which the government is plundering for the well-known reasons, for the children of the people who cannot pay tuition fees. So, let me say the truth and the following: Tuition fees are basically in universities offering, not only business studies: Piraeus, the OPC, but also many other universities, such as the NRP, for example, similar items, and not, any objects that have a strong demand. All over the world, that's really how it's done. What's wrong with that? You'll tell me the height of the tuition. Firstly, that is wrong. The tuition fees, usually wholesale for such studies around 5,000 euros per year, are paid in Cyprus to become a cook or to study secretarial support, hotel studies or aesthetics. Now you're gonna tell me why an excellent guy who doesn't have any money? No falseer. Again, in all postgraduate programs, there are scholarships. Again the propaganda tells you that programs are not evaluated and no one knows what they're paying for. Lies again! Look at the APD. There is the list of all sections with outside - I stress - evaluations. Stop lying. But that's not the worst part of it. It is that you spread falsely and detestingly that only teachers supposedly pay the money. But why should he not be rewarded? The levelling you're trying to do will level life itself. I return to where the money goes: 35% of the tuition goes directly to the university's special bill for the needs, plus one 5% of the fees. I mean, about 40 percent goes straight to university. Good! So, what's the cost? So I'll tell you why I asked for a small, central university. With this money, about 1/3 of the employees who work either in the EPP or under contracts are paid. These people will be fired immediately. I repeat they'll be fired. Isn't that incredible? Where else are the money going? Because they don't actually go to postgraduate. The university I asked told me that it pays the PPC account about 0.5 million, while Mr Gavroglou's grant is annually less than 2 million. With this money they pay the student education in business, of which many find jobs. Poor, Mr. Gavroglou? You're not here. They're also paying for security. That's definitely bad, because we could assign it to Ruvikon. They pay the cleanliness, the adhesives written by the undergraduate students, the workshops that repair the old infrastructure, the papers printed by the degrees and cleaning facilities that clean up the vow costumes. Students are subsidised for excursions and conferences. A large number of scholarships are given and a percentage of students are working as secretarial support in the programmes. They finance doctorates with missing infrastructures and databases and so many others, which I really don't have time to say. But I would like to say that from time to time there will be a picture of destruction and abandonment, for which you will be responsible, Minister. You destroy and dismantle universities, that's what you do. Finally, you said yesterday that 'if there are distinguished teachers, if they want money, they should leave and go elsewhere'. Yes, sir! So let me inform you that already the best and not the standard you have in mind have applied for and will either take a three-year leave to leave or fly every week abroad. Instead of bringing people home, we're kicking him out. So if the good doctors leave, then the apprentices will operate on us? Your neoliberal proposal - because this is what this is about - has also made private colleges celebrate, as tuition fees there are multiples, scholarships are not available and quality is not evaluated. The august to Cyprus and elsewhere will also receive the students and generally the activities will be transferred outside Greece and in the field of education. You will tell me 'Why?' Because, dear, no one is willing to work any longer without being paid. Is that bad? We do not live in Gullag or in people's democracies, who have murdered generations and destroyed societies. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I want to say something now in democratic opposition. You must be ready, not just to abolish this monstrosity. You need to be ready for what you're going to do next. We want full autonomy and responsibility for institutions, which means that tomorrow's government must, on the basis of international protocols, make three-year funding agreements with institutions. This will force the institutions to rationalise, to extend where it should also be reduced where it should be. The existing funding must be in the right direction. Also, to develop funding from postgraduate students attracting foreign students. Here is an incentive that could be given instead of the incredible practical abolition of postgraduate programmes. Because, finally - we must say that - most departments will "sleep" the postgraduate until you leave, dear Gavroglou. That is what everyone says: professors, students, managers, the overwhelming majority. However, even if some continue to operate, no one worthy will sit down to teach. Postgraduately serious, recognized by the market, the academy and society, and internationally, do not take place with doctors from the University of Upper Rahula, Mr Gavroglou. I see decline and deterioration, i.e. not me, but professors who voted SYRIZA say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u241	Please put an end to this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u242	I shall conclude, Mr President. If you could travel to Turkey, it would be desirable to see some Turkish privately distinguished universities where they teach Greeks and, indeed, several. I sum up: This law of humble instincts is the worst I've ever seen of this - how can I say it? - lately with the revelations of the government. And higher, Mr. Gabroglou! I'll see you after the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u243	Before the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative comes to Step, I will make two announcements to this House. The Standing Committees on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice and Trade have submitted their report to the draft law of the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information: "Electronic system for the allocation of television advertising time, Amendment of Law 548/2007, setting up a register of regional and local press, Special marking of a written code in printed publications, creating an institutional framework for strengthening the production of audiovisual works in Greece and other provisions". Secondly, the Standing Committee on Social Affairs submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Reforming the Primary Health Care, urgent arrangements for the responsibility of the Ministry of Health and other provisions". Here, Mr Georgioda, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u244	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister of the country in his first programme statements had referred to a condition at the time, which made a lot of impression - some people did not know him, some sought to see what it meant - when it came to education. It was the term 'exoticism'. Indeed, it was an impression in the first time, but I think that the Prime Minister was then revealing exactly what the Prime Minister meant: equalisation of everything, all equal downwards, no motive, no discrimination, no reward of excellence, which will end up with a little criminal offense. So this account, this is probably the ideological position, which is that the Prime Minister expressed in his programme statements, we see that every piece of government's legislation is coming to an end. We have a draft law today, for which, for one thing, I am sure - and I will agree with my previous colleague - that it will never be implemented. It will not be possible to implement it. It will not apply, not because the New Democracy will be the government of the country in a short time, but because the academic community itself has turned its back on this draft law. He thinks he's not going ahead with what we call higher education. Considers that basic principles are being circumvented in relation to autonomy and self-government of higher education institutions that should exist. It considers that there are interventions which, for no reason, give the Minister the opportunity, which were not provided for in any other bill. And what I'm saying is not just words, it's very simple. There is no need to deal much with what has been said about this bill. At the hearing of bodies, Mrs Venetiana Kyriazopoulou said so very clearly, the President of the Rector's Synod. I read from the Minutes: "The Rectors' Synod has been disappointed by this whole process." It refers to electronic voting. Below it says: 'We have serious problems in postgraduate curricula, since none of what we have said has been heard'. Here it says: 'In the Regional Management Councils we have reservations if the responsibilities are not defined'. On the subject of the participation of administrative and student students in the university's central administration, it says: "I believe that some small universities will create problems in terms of the percentage". Also, in relation to university asylum, the President of the Rectanes comes and says: 'About asylum I would like to say that when there is a violation, the state is on its own initiative'. So simple and so self-evident. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative did not say that. The President of the Rectors' Conference said so. I would also like to read you two words from what the President of the Panhellenic Federation of Doctoral and Research Staff said: "We fear the strengthening of partyization in universities, which will bring some arrangements to the bill." "We are renowned for the election of the anti-procedures in a separate ballot. We fear that it will cause problems in the administration of universities." And the last: "We think it was right that the original wording for student participation was correct, as they should only be involved in student decisions". These two leading clubs are expressed in this way, and indeed justified, in relation to the provisions of the law. Of course, I cannot avoid the challenge of referring to the provision concerning university asylum. In Article 3, in which you have so far changed the wording for university asylum, there is a first part that we are all overlooking and which I think is very important in relation to what it says in the second part of the article: "EIO ensures academic freedom in research and in teaching. The academic asylum is recognised to safeguard democratic values, academic freedoms in research and in teaching, the free movement of ideas, the protection of the right to knowledge and learning, against anyone attempting to destroy it." I would expect the second paragraph to refer to the way in which this academic asylum will be guaranteed, that is to say, how we will protect the university's function against anyone who wanted to destroy this academic freedom. Instead, we have, without any justification - and I must mention that the Minister himself, at least in his first speech, has not mentioned at all the need to allegedly take this intervention - an intervention which is unique to all European data. I do not understand it because I do not understand why and why crimes should be discriminated against, because universities should be a special place where an unlawful act of ordinary criminal law cannot be prosecuted, as is being persecuted at any other point in the country. I could understand the fact that there are certain security differences, but only in relation to academic freedom, which we know very well that the action of specific groups at universities does not apply everywhere. No discussion can be held, any gathering, any speech from some who do not like a student's share. Therefore, instead of guaranteeing this, we come and safeguard those who commit offences under the Common Criminal Law. I would expect real answers on this. The first justification - to say this - is that the old law did not stop the infringement of universities. It is not a question of infringibility or not in universities. The issues for me are two: the first, any violationous behaviour to be persecuted and not to create a climate of lawlessness, and the second is - and that should concern us all, but I see that it does not concern the majority - how the movement of ideas is really and academic freedom will not only remain at a verbal and verbal level, but also at a substantial level, because we know very well what is going on in universities and how some others restrict them to the expression of their speech. Apart from the issues of university asylum, I also have to deal with the issues that have arisen with postgraduate studies. They have heard a number of points of view. I believe that there was the need for some interventions on this particular issue of the particular form of higher education, which has been man-made in recent years. There was no such thing as the previous period and the legislator obviously had to make some speeches so that he could draw up a framework. It is another thing that the Minister should have the right to approve or not a postgraduate programme, by deciding himself whether there is a proper provision of services, in relation to tuition fees or any other prerequisite laid down in Article 32. I think that in this way, in fact, whatever activity, any academic upgrading that was in many postgraduate programmes, we will stop seeing it and finally what we all imagine will happen: for a certain period they will necessarily stay hypnotized by the specific postgraduate programmes, waiting for everyone the next day, which, as I said, will not be late. However, I would like to refer to the large number of ministerial amendments. I have an amendment, to which I would like the Minister responsible, Mr Kontonis, who has not come to be present today, to come and be placed at least tomorrow, because the shadows are being created seriously, to the most serious, and I am obliged to mention them. And I challenge an answer and a denial of what I will say. So there is an amendment from the Minister of Justice, a very serious change in status, the legal form of notaries' associations. Question one. The Minister should tell us who asked for that. The notaries asked for it? I don't have a picture like that. As far as I know, the notaries didn't ask for it. Question two: What is the feasibility of my fellow Members getting to understand? Whilst notion of notarial associations as legal entities governed by public law, they are given an opportunity by a separate provision that characterises them, that they may have and have contracts of a private nature. This is all, of course, to serve the electronic auction system, which comes next month. In order to serve this system of electronic auctions, according to its explanatory statement, notable for notarial clubs to be able to make contracts with characteristics of private law. But there is also a second amendment. And there are already a number of comments on the Internet that all this was done in order to enable the Minister to give all this work of supporting electronic auctions, which must be in every notary club, directly outsourced to a particular supplier. I'm waiting for the Minister's attitude. However, because he did not come to answer today because I know that notorious associations are protesting because the amendment, in fact, is the way in which it comes, creates suspicions of feasibility and because there is a second amendment tabled on the same day, which is linked and has to do with the Independent Authority of Public Contracts - which is linked to me - the questions are many. I will tell you about this amendment that for the first time in an amendment to this House, the SYRIZA Government is doing the following: A legal adviser's position shall be abolished. Until now, we have had job creations here. We always have amendments to create jobs. For the first time - this is news - no position is removed. With the amendment number 1185 of the Ministry of Finance, the position that existed next to the Legal Adviser is abolished. The Independent Public Procurement Control Authority was ordered by an assistant legal adviser. That position is abolished. Can I tell you what's best for you? This position was created in December 2016, with Mr. 4441. In December with Law 4441 we also need an assistant legal counsellor. Now they say they don't need to. But what he writes on the Internet - and I insist, I wish the Minister would come and disprove it - is that this assistant legal counsellor had said that it cannot be given in this way - in the way described in the previous amendment - the previous work, which I said to you, of electronic auctions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. Serious questions concern the legal world, which is related to electronic auctions, which, as you know, will have a lot to do with the entire Greek society after September. Here we are, waiting for answers. But, basically, hold that for the first time - and that is all it is suspected - a position of legal counsel has been abolished by this government. It is certain that this bill will only employ Parliament for a few days, it will trouble students and academics for a few months, but it will surely not work, because it is against anything progressive, whatever modern, what European at this moment universities are experiencing abroad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u245	Mrs Lebanese from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u246	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, higher education, the way it is organized, cooperates, influenced and influenced by modern society, has often been a point of confrontation between the parties, but also intense controversy among all members of the academic community. It is the area of policy that best reflects the ideological identity, the political priorities of the government and the influences it accepts. Regardless of the political identity, the ideology and the uptake of the reality of everyone, we can agree that higher education must be regulated in a way that is able to release people, disarming society, affecting, finding a way for global knowledge to be transmitted to the entire Greek people. In order to be able to do so, this transfer of knowledge, the university must operate democratically, transparently, by altering the people who practice the administration, but above all it must operate without restrictions. So the prediction that all young scientists, regardless of their economic potential, can continue their academic education, is a provision which we all agree on. After all, all the postgraduate programmes we are talking about are carried out within public infrastructures and it is the state's obligation to monitor the way they are exploited, but also to ensure that they do not address just one part of the citizens, but all of them. The ideologies that this arrangement will close the good postgraduate, in fact lack seriousness. There is no question that higher education in our country needs more resources. However, no one doubts that the state's potential at this time is limited and the reasons we all know well. The Government does not propose the abolition of teachers in postgraduate courses, although we would like to do so, because we recognise that there are programmes which cannot be implemented with the available resources of the universities. What these programmes are, however, cannot be arbitrarily defined, without control, without any operational cost report. It is difficult for some to accept limits to their pay from their employment in these programmes. There can be no programs that require astronomical tuition, without actually being able to justify these from operating costs. I deplore those who say that good scientists, those who have the right to do postgraduate or doctorate, are only those who can pay for this development. How can we accept from people who have benefited from the Greek state - and fairly - by using free education, today support from the university professor's position that they cannot perform their duties unless students pay? Today's bill does not deprive the academic community of any acquis. It increases their obligations towards society, establishes the obligation for universities to define themselves, in particular, their framework of operation and to do so in public. Is that a problem? Since when did universities have a problem with transparency? It sets limits the remuneration of academics for the teaching work they offer under postgraduate programmes. Is this contrary to the hours spent in this work? Does anyone doubt that they should submit an operational cost report for each programme to justify the fees set? If so, why? Do the tuition fees prefer to emerge arbitrary? Some protests are being made to provide for the establishment of vocational training and qualification certification programmes. For what? Is it not something that the European Union and the labour market want? Regression is characterized by the return of students to university collective bodies. With what reason? Can students overturn these numbers, the direction that academics want to follow? Does the transparency in the management of university funds question academic freedom? Is the obligation to make rules of procedure embarrassing the self-employed? The state finances the universities. Does he not have the right to carry out checks and ask for accountability? Are they not obliged to communicate and cooperate with the society in which they operate? Is it not possible for universities to influence positively and developmentally within the region where they are located? Today's bill meets the expectations and needs of the overwhelming majority of both the Greek society and the academic community. The reactions that exist come from minorities, who lose some uninstitutional privileges, which they themselves provided to themselves, by exploiting public structures and lack of regulation. Also resented are those who have been financially able to pursue academic studies, without having the most qualified or the most skilled, but simply the financial capacity. With the implementation of the provisions of this bill, it will eventually be won, both society and universities, because the choice of the best will no longer be limited by financial resources, but will be made on all those who wish to continue. The excellence, which many invoke, is not only in those who have money. There are excellent scientists in the poor families. The real hope of the country, society, hope for progress is hidden within society as a whole, in people who fight daily for something better and is not limited to those who have money to fulfill their every dream. A better society, happier, more peaceful is created when there are no exclusions. In this country we have often experienced the tragic consequences of blockades. The needs of many are served by this bill. Society is served, the interests of our universities and our country are served. We demand and seek more education, more democracy, more social justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u247	Thank you for respecting time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u248	Mr President, may I speak for a moment? It's about the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u249	Here you go, Mr. Delia.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u250	Minister, I think it would be useful, because so far I measure and find the parliamentary amendments to have reached 15, to say which of them you are accepting, until the end of today's sitting, so that we can put ourselves in place tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u251	And we also have legislative improvements to testify. Before the end of the meeting, I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u252	Okay. Mr Fortsakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u253	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a lot has already been said since 15.00, when we started this debate and I do not want to get tired of it again. Our rapporteur, Mrs Keramos, has said many things, Mr Minister, and has focused on some points, such as the issue of asylum, the choice of the institutions, etc. I won't repeat it. I share them. He's right about what he says. I will try to speak more on the basis of my experience, which I had from the university - many years of administration in university institutions - and I will try to be as few as I can - let us say so - in a party confrontation, because I always support and I always believe that university issues should be able not to be the subject of party confrontation. I am very sorry that, apart from having so many amendments that undermine the role of our Parliament, we also have the quality of the provisions that are reached here, which, Minister, is also downgrading Parliament. For we take so much time to discuss whether the seat will be Samos or Syros, whether the student's representation rate will be 10% or 15%, or whether the regent will be elected with a separate vote or the same vote, when these are really the last issues that concern the Greek people and the latest issues, which concern parents, who want to study their children and our students. It is therefore a pity to waste our time on these issues, which are of some importance, but certainly not a capital, and not to talk about what is really important. In the few minutes I will focus on six issues, which I consider to be important and which I fear are the draft law that you have presented and which we are discussing today and which is not even affecting them. Question One: The theme of the university map. Greece currently has twenty-two HEIs and fourteen TEIs and has nearly as many higher education institutions of another type, while we know that the average in Europe is one per million inhabitants. We should therefore have a redesign of the university charter, and because we cannot close universities arbitrarily, I believe that the university pole should be used, namely the concentration of budgets, research and teaching programmes on a specific pole, which would bring together many universities. The experiment has already been done by France, with great success. What does the bill say about it? Nothing. Just one prediction that the government, i.e. by the Minister of Education and by a presidential decree, will be able to make a merger and a merger, whenever the Minister decides, without knowing anything more specific. Even the debate that began for the Athens TEI was unfortunately not incorporated into any broader forecast and arrangement on how these combinations will be made and what they serve. I am quoted as saying that, personally, the TEIs should also be supported when the evaluation is carried out - but on the explicit and inalienable condition that there is evaluation - the TEIs that can meet the criteria that will be set, can actually, with equal professional rights, be lifted to a level that is clearly identical to that of the universities, but on the strict condition that a specific evaluation has been carried out beforehand. Point 2: The human potential of universities, our teachers and our students. We all know that because you often talk about complication, the complexity very often finds an expression in the choice of teachers. We know that teachers' elections are not always at the level we would like. Should we not have thought of teachers choosing them on a pan-Hellenic level, for example, of Agregation in France? Shouldn't we have a university teacher design on a pan-Hellenic level so that they can teach all the universities without any distinction between them? This is where higher education institutions are shining. The Athens School of Law, when I entered, had a hundred and twenty members. When I'm out, there's gonna be less than seventy reductions which are the same throughout the university. The issue of children: We have the unique feature, our universities do not have the responsibility to determine the number of students, since the Ministry never accepts what the university suggests. Leave them more than doubled systematically for years now. They do not have the responsibility of selecting their students, while all the universities in the world have this responsibility. We have eternal students who are what? They are children who can't finish the university within the planned time and who are actually more than twice the number of students. Is that why we're doing this? I am not talking about those who have abandoned their studies, who are the ones who have exceeded the eighth year. I'm talking about those who, instead of studying for four years, do six, seven, eight. Is there a way to deal with the problem? Of course there is. We must return quickly to the concept of university year, that is to say not to think that anyone who brings together forty lessons, as if we were flying into a hat unit, but whoever meets the conditions required to pass his homework in June or September and start after the new year and so on, as is done in all the Western countries. The issue of violence and asylum has been quite commented on. I won't insist. I will only tell you that, in fact, the problem is not the wording, because today the wording is good, the asylum is not protected, because the protection of asylum means that the unrelated people do not enter the universities. The state had to make sure only those who have the right to be in college, teachers, administrative, students, guests and no one else. Here we have reached the actual indictment point, the bill says that traffic and firefighting are allowed to enter. That's unprecedented. It is the same method that we see for disciplinary boards, where I read in the bill that they are disciplinary for all categories of the university, but only one, two, three, four, five, and finally only the students are left. Don't we dare say the students have to have disciplinary? Fourth point: Organization of studies. We have the problem that knowledge at the university is shared collectively and serves interests of societal and professors and then professionally. This had to be broken. There had to be bridges in knowledge. He needed the degree not to give it to the department, but the school. And we had to be able to organize double degrees. Of all this, nothing mentions the bill. Administration of universities. You said before that you did not propose anything specific for the election of the dean. Let me tell you that it could well be if there were schools, the dean choose the dean. There is no need for the dean to make the candidate parliamentarian and run to convince thousands of teachers to vote for him. If you see what happens in Germany, France, Italy and many other countries, there is nowhere the Greek system. The institution's boards. You said the system failed. The system didn't fail. It partially succeeded. We could well have the institution's boards having them and operating, provided that they have only external figures and that there is a clear division of powers. The law, which we are now effectively abolishing, predicted that there is his assessment and we could all go back so far. I close by saying that there was a lot of talk about postgraduate, whether or not there should be a tuition fee. I don't like tuition fees. I studied with a scholarship and I cannot easily accept that we are asking children for money. I would prefer that we have universities without tuition fees, as do the major European countries of mainland Europe. However, we have to resolve the question of funding. If this state cannot solve it, then the state cannot make social policy on the back of universities, because it must use those instruments, which allow it to agree with the universities on how they will have the money they receive from the state. These kinds of tools, unfortunately, the bill ignores them. I conclude by saying that I am most sorry that, on the mission of universities, Minister, you have removed three important fields, which show the great distance that separates us from our understanding of the university. You removed the prediction that universities are preparing students for the application of knowledge in the professional field. You removed the prediction that universities also ensure the occupational integration of graduates. And you removed - it is even worse - the prediction that universities contribute to building the European area of higher education and research. Universities are certainly not merely agitated to produce market officials. However, our children must be able to live and be able to join the social and economic fabric of the country. If this accession does not exist, our children cannot survive. And, of course, universities untied from Europe, it is also impossible for them to function properly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u254	Mr. Kelles has the floor. We should try, as far as possible, to be within the limits of time. Mr. Fortsakis has been using more. Here you go, Mr. Kelles.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u255	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today, according to the government, aims to organise and operate higher education. It is a tangible demonstration of the ideological anchorages and anachronistic perceptions that govern the government. He is the mirror of their ideological sculpture, which shortly missed putting the country out of the euro in the summer of 2015. With the experience of the two years of governance by SYRIZA and ANEL, and especially those that come to publicity in these days, his sometimes "asset" of the government, your plan seems clear. However, there is still a huge 'why' in the atmosphere. Why would all this happen, which jeopardize the country's greatest conquests, from the war onward? The answer, ladies and gentlemen, to this question gives the bill, which we are discussing today. The way in which a government sees the future of education is highly indicative of the way in which it designs the country's course. With the regulations of the bill, which covers the whole range of higher education - and not just education, the government is aiming to marvel at universities by turning them into party sub-projects, which is part of its wider plan, which is no more than the establishment of a tough party system, which in the end hopes will enable it to remain in power, which has fought so much over the past decades, but has loved so much over the last two years. In other words, a bureaucratic framework is created, structured in the ideological orientation of the leaders of the Ministry of Education, who have not had the slightest problem of saying clearly to the relevant committees of this House, Minister, that they are admirers of the Soviet model of education. That's what your colleague, Mr. Undersecretary said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u256	It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u257	How did it end?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u258	The Soviet?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u259	The other day, Mr. Zuraris said it's the best education system in the world.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u260	I think it was 'it was' he would say, not that 'it's 'it'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u261	They're right next to you. Let him say what he said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u262	And I'll repeat it tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u263	Not that we hadn't figured it out until today. However, I must be honest: A shock occurs when one hears that, officially from the lips of a minister, a member of the Greek Government in the first 20th century. And I come to the substance of the bill. You will allow me first of all to comment on Article 3, which regulates the famous academic asylum, a point on which much has been written and said so far. With this article, what is achieved is the establishment of an illegal status within the university institutions of the country, as provision is made for the automatic intervention of the authorities only for felonies and crimes against life. In any other case, the Republican Council should act. That is, in practice, the Republican Council should be brought together to decide first whether it is a cloak or a felon and then whether the authorities should be called or not and when the criminal act takes place. Of course, the Minister said that dealing with such incidents was in the hands of a Roman student movement. Minister, take this article back. You will convert universities into areas of generalised lawlessness and you will need to manage situations that are extremely dangerous, which you have decided in advance that you do not want to deal with. Mr. Zurari, you're a fan of the Soviet system. Is there an asylum in this educational system? Is there an asylum there?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u264	Is there a Soviet model today?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u265	Mr. Philly, I don't know if you're a fan of the same system...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u266	Today, is there a Soviet model of education? What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u267	Mr. Zurari, tell Mr. Zurari. Not to me. He said the Soviet model of education was the best in the world.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u268	I'm asking you. Today is a Soviet model?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u269	It was the best in the world he said. Your minister to tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u270	Today? In 2017? He probably said about 1917.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u271	Your minister, not me. He's a fan, not me! But we cannot bury a system which does not have asylum, but we must put asylum.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u272	Please. Let's talk about the Greek.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u273	And because they have spoken about the rectoral authorities, your intention, Minister, is to check the administrations of the universities, since this bill provides for the election of rectors and reptiles by separate ballots, so that if you do not control the dean, you can check the process through the rector. Hey, you're going to elect someone. At the same time, you are also increasing the participation of students, namely party parties, who are given a speech and vote on a number of issues that they do not have or cannot have an opinion on. For the same reason that you disorganize and the functioning of democracies by abolishing the boards of the institutions, you are completely unaware of the consequences of these provisions for the proper functioning of the institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, with this bill you are also making a huge blow to the institution of postgraduate studies. Legislative by Article 82, undergraduate programmes in a foreign language must be carried out exclusively in cooperation with the international university in Greece, which has only nine teachers. Article 30 retains the right to refer back to the Senate's decision on the establishment of a postgraduate programme, through a committee, but you are completely under control. The involvement of political leadership in the functioning of postgraduate programmes affects the institution's self-management. As is also the case in Article 49, the abolition of institution councils and the establishment of higher education and research academic boards in each region is affected. We agree, Minister, that the students should have a say on some institutional issues. However, is it possible for students to decide on the award of an honorary or honest or honorary teacher's title to move one professor from one department to another to change the subject matter to which a professor has been appointed? In Article 46, the question of defining the professional rights of graduates of TEI is referred to the bells once again. The committee provided, when it is set up, will be fully controlled and will not pay off. I would like to say a few words about Greek-language education. Some regulations introduced by Article 73 are from the evil one, in practice they create huge issues. I would like to explain that the Minister may place in the place of the training coordinator who he wishes, by way of derogation from any provision. The ‘derogation’ tends to become a rule. And that, of course, is extremely dangerous, colleagues. As regards secondments abroad, the Ministry introduces discrimination for teachers, which is itself seconded late in the middle or end of the teaching year. These teachers will be punished three times. One if you distract them in the middle of the year with any consequences for families, then there is an empty place in the schools from which they are leaving and, thirdly, this year will be counted as the whole for the completion of a three-year bonus. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Speaking of the secondments with the fine, a fat example, Mr Zurari, once again, I am referring to you - dishonesty speeches and projects is your answer to the question of secondments of teachers abroad. In particular, in a question I asked you about the unjustified burden on the Greek language budget by the time, which there are teachers willing to be seconded to schools abroad, without a penny, in your place, you wanted to highlight the social sensitivity of the government towards teachers who are supposed to be seconded and who cannot, because the posts are incarcerated. You have, however, forgotten, Minister, that by your own amendment last April you proposed the extension of the secondment of teachers abroad, without a bonus, invoking the multiple financial costs. When did you tell the truth? Last year as a Member, or this year as a Minister? What changed in a year? Of course it's changed. Now you're Minister! With regard to the regulation on the excellent knowledge of foreign languages for European schools, since you claim to remain the main prerequisite for secondments to European schools, leave the current provision as it stands. And a brief mention, by closing down on the issue raised by our relatives' organizations in Bavaria, which is Munich High School. The Ministry does not send any money to pay the rent, nor to guarantee the new building, which will be transferred to high school in August. And as long as the funding is lacking, the signing of contracts is delayed. And of course, uncertainty kills parents and students.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u274	Put a perfect one, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u275	I shall conclude, Mr President. For the New Democrat Republic, Greek-language education is a top priority and an integral part of education in our country and we will not allow it to become a bourgeoisie. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is continuing its work on a firm basis. The New Democracy is not simply voting against this bill, but it is committed that, as the next government of the country, it will abolish it by bringing those provisions to the educational community a wind of progress and freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u276	Mr. Konstantinos Fotakis has the floor for the Deputy Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u277	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin with some general remarks. The debate before us, but also the debate in the Committee on Education has shown two clearly undimensional political views. The first opinion considers and manages education primarily as a good, which can generate resources, a good that can be marketable, as a commodity of great value, which the state can sell or manage in a posteriori. For example, the rules of demand and supply regulate postgraduate courses, the rules of demand and supply determine the remuneration of teachers in them. The effort to attract funds from foreign students determines the way and level of teaching. The state is, in many cases, limited to the role of post-school education. They are, in fact, being promoted - particularly in the debate that took place in the committee - examples of countries providing postgraduate diplomas, even by correspondence and requested by the state to lift certification checks, with the aim of reducing bureaucracy and facilitating the registration of students. Which is ironic! Those who are in favour of high quality, in favour of dignity, are the first to crush them. And even more, through the pretext of a cynical modernisation, it develops the idea that this type of education can be a development tool and get the country out of the crisis. The idea of the business university is at the heart of this way of thinking. It is an idea that has already gone bankrupt where it started, in the United States, and is falling very quickly in Europe as well. Besides, her own inspirations about twenty years ago, years ago, today, are questioning her in front of the deadlocks she created. We come to our country, with a different phase of about fifteen years, to view as modernising outdated and failed models. Of course, it is not a question of modernisation, but of regression. And there is a series of publications and debates that are being held today at European universities, but also the European Union itself, where the central demand is the return to academicity. The second approach looks at education in another way. First of all, it sees it as a means of supporting society, through education, spiritual culture and career creation, which it provides. It promotes academicity, scientific quality and spiritual values, promotes knowledge as well as the broadening of spiritual horizons and gives inspiration and perspective. In this regard, education and research are commuting vessels, which share the knowledge that they produce and distribute, the knowledge that is an essential component for the development of a new production model for the country, based on what we say in the 'knowledge economy'. It will be based on the knowledge economy, however, which leads to the production of wealth that returns to society, which contributes to development, creating conditions for better health, better education, to alleviate inequalities. According to this second version, essayism between education and research is a one-way path and forms the single area of research and education, which is now a necessity. This approach comes, in many, to serve the bill to be passed. It comes to regulate, where deregulation has been imposed, it comes to lifting over time distortions, it opens up prospects. At the heart of the effort is the country's exceptional human potential, especially young scientists and researchers. We've heard a lot about them today. It is the human potential that is the most important reserve for the future, which today, due to the devaluation of work and, above all, the lack of career prospects, has led to the great one-sided fleeing abroad, the Brain Drain or the underemployment, the Brain Weste, which is also a very important element. According to Eurostat data, in the years of the crisis, one-sided migration of scientists has doubled and is constantly growing. Our main objective is to halt the phenomenon of Brain drain and replace it with a balanced, two-way mobility of scientists, an element that is necessary to promote science. As has been shown in a number of studies, the primary cause for scientific migration is not only the level of wages, as many people think, but mainly the lack of prospects for careers and development. At this point, we are also focused. We create attractive opportunities for quality jobs, for careers and for the public and private sectors. Public jobs are about higher education institutions and research centres, where for the first time, they opened up jobs after seven years, which was completely forgotten in the debate before. A thousand posts were opened for ICP members in universities, 100 posts for young researchers in research centres. In the private sector, however, they also open up jobs with specialists' job subsidies programmes, which will provide research and development services for innovative enterprises. The research results from the newly established Entrepreneurship Participation Fund together with the European Investment Fund, where it also has new potential for the creation of new start-ups, are exploited. The existence of jobs is a necessary treaty to stop Brain Drain, but not capable. Jobs should be combined with those scientific and entrepreneurial environments, which act as attraction for young scientists and well-known scientists. They must be environments that inspire and create conditions for the emergence of the creativity of new scientists either in the academic or in the business field, with the creation of start up companies. The draft law to be adopted contains a number of arrangements in this respect. These arrangements are reflected in a series of articles concerning both higher education and postgraduate studies, as well as the operation of the EPPCs and Article 69 on research. I shall therefore briefly focus on the issue of the financial management of the research programmes, which are set out in Articles 50 to 68 of the bill. Clearly we wish for flexibility, which is necessary for research work, while safeguarding the public interest. It is a great challenge in a system that has inherited bad practices from the past and, on the other hand, is limited by a suspicion of mismanagement and a lack of understanding of the dynamics of research. So this situation comes to streamline the bill. The final provisions for the EPP-ED, Articles 50 to 68, have been established in cooperation with the universities and research centres and, as the representatives of the Rector's Conference have said here, are considered to be satisfactory and well aware of the effort made to that end. These articles reflect the basic principles of rational management. For example, it is now determined who decides the feasibility of an expenditure, who controls the legality and who executes it. I'll close with a few references to Article 69. It is the article focusing on certain improvements in the functioning of the ELIDEEC, the new institution that was the initiative of this government and operates as a kind of independent authority, not in the legal sense of the term, for science. The provisions of Article 69 reinforce the interconnection between the members of the ELIDEC Scientific Council - which is now elected and in place - and the members of the National Research and Innovation Council, the ESRB and the sectoral scientific councils through the advisory committee operating in the EIIDEC. In this way, scientific bodies, which consist of highly prestigious scientists, are mobilised and harmonized to achieve the best result for the formulation and implementation of a genuine national research strategy. I would like to take this opportunity to mention the first results of actions by the ELIADEC, which clearly record the beginning of the reversal of the phenomenon of Brain Drain. Two thousand and fourteen applications for candidate doctors were recently received five hundred thirty - nine scholarships after evaluation. It's a record number. Secondly, one thousand six hundred ninety-nine applications - which have been evaluated - for research projects with doctoral researchers, the sixty-three have been submitted by Greek scientists working abroad. In 2017 alone, additional funds of EUR 106.5 million will be made available to the IOIs and the country's research centres to support research through the EIADEC. These are additional resources in addition to the NRP, in addition to any other public expenditure. All the resources for the three-year period 2017-2019 that will go to universities, TEIs and research centres in the country amount to 240 million euros. And I really do wonder: When had this ever happened before? Because we hear words about lack of effort, underfunding, and we do not see what has happened in the past. And what happened in the past, I have it here, and I'd like to testify. These are data from the ESF based on EUROSTAT. In 2000 to 2007, spending on research and development amounted to 1.3 billion to 1.4 billion. In 2014 it was 1.488 billion. In 2015, a very difficult year, was 1.7 billion, i.e. 215 million additional. If we take jobs and compare between 2014 and 2015, we had an increase in the private sector by 5%, an increase in research centres by 22.5% and an increase in higher education by 14.5%. This is the result of increased spending on research and development, which eventually brought the country to 0.97% of GDP. It has approached 1%, which is, of course, half what happens with regard to the Community average. I'd like to submit the relevant bulletin. [[At this point the Deputy Minister, Mr Konstantinos Fotakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] The provision of Article 69 to create individual positions of researchers for young scientists who have been able to obtain a grant from the highly competitive ERC programme is also expected to contribute to targeting the reversal of Brain Drain and to enrich the potential of Greek research centres. Ladies and gentlemen, the knowledge derived from education and research goes horizontally through the pillars of the Greek economy, such as the primary sector, processing, tourism, transport and, at the same time, knowledge itself is the basis for creating an additional pillar of economic activity through the emergence of newly created enterprises. This is the model we work on. The quality of the education provided, its rationalisation, the strengthening of academicity and the education it provides is a precondition for success. I believe that this bill clearly promotes them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u278	Thank you, too. Mr. Kostis Hatzidakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u279	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have a government, which claims to be progressive, which is of course its right. But it is our right to observe things and draw our conclusions. In the economy, for example, we have seen how progressive the government is. The Prime Minister himself talked about fraud. But we all know that the government was outside of economic and European reality. It was conflicted with the reality and the results of the conflict to date and will continue to be paid by Greek citizens with two memoranda, with tough measures for employed and retired people, whom this government was supposed to serve, and with austerity lasting. In the economy, as you count, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, with a sack of measures you have not managed to bring the country even where it was in 2014. Because in 2014 the country had already been tested on the markets and had no capital control, which has today on its back nor had the two memorandums bearing the signature of Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Kammenos. That was your progressive approach to the economy. In education, which does not exist to this extent the troika, you feel more free to show how progressive you are. This bill reflects this false progressional concept. I want to be specific and I will refer to three examples, to see how progressive you really are. What are you doing in the sanctuary? You are bringing the old regime, which does not exist in any other country in Europe and, in fact, it is protection for the bollocks. Why would you excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, have you considered a very simple question or not? Why do you abolish the provisions in force with the previous n.4009/11? Do you think that this was not the way to protect the free movement of ideas? Do you think that for the last four, five years we have not had free movement in the Greek universities? Couldn't the teachers say what they wanted? Couldn't the students say what they wanted or organize the events they wanted? On the contrary, I say that if anyone had to criticise the regime that has applied in recent years, this law was not fully implemented because of the cowardice of the governments and the corresponding atmosphericity of the rectors. To be clean to Greek citizens. That's what this is about. The only protection provided by the arrangements you bring is protection for the bollocks, nothing else. Progressively, then, in asylum. Second progressive conception of all what you do in postgraduate, with the narrow corset that the Ministry brings today, to regulate postgraduate studies, in which there has indeed been some spring at the Greek university in recent years. Children, students, did not need to go abroad to study and study here, doing less for their families. What are you doing here? You are setting a ceiling on the salaries that the teachers will receive, thereby punishing the effort, merit and success, because obviously all of this is bothering you. In order for a foreign student to come, he must have recognized his degree from the IATAP. If he doesn't have to come, we don't need his money. Of course, you also have a number of obstacles to the organization of postgraduate studies, as the Minister may refer a decision back to the committee itself to organise postgraduate studies from a university and from a department. In short, in other words, you trust the brats and you don't trust the teachers and the senator to organize postgraduate courses. While the thing is very simple. Instead of these bureaucratic arrangements, on the one hand, you could trust the principle of quality assurance, as is being done abroad, in order to become graduates of quality and, on the other hand, to give scholarships for the economically weak, as is done in all foreign countries. It is very simple and we have pointed it out to you. The third example, which shows how progressive you are, is about the possibility of foreign language studies in Greece. You only limit them to the international university. The International University did so by the New Democracy, the Government of Karamanlis in the period 2004-2009. So we have every reason to support it. But I really do ask myself: why should foreign-language studies be limited to the international university? [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] What does it matter to the University of Athens, the Aristotle University, the University of Crete, anywhere? Do we have an extra amount of money, and do we not want students from the Balkans, from the Middle East, or wherever they come to Greece and are taught in our universities in English or in any other language? Is that a progressive concept, really? I want him to think about it for every Greek citizen who's watching us right now. So, ladies and gentlemen, this bill actually highlights the differences between the two factions and indeed highlights who is progressive and who is with reaction and delay. I know it's going to bother you, but at some point someone has to say it. The New Democrat Party is in common sense, as is shown by our position on asylum, while you are in a perception that is not found anywhere in other countries of Europe. The New Democracy's parade is with merit, as can be seen from our postgraduate placement, while you are on levelling, which is not a progressive perception. The New Democracy party is trying to bring to Greece currency, making our home country an international educational centre, while you have allergy to any innovation and want to cut the entrance, even to students who want to come to Greece, as happened with some Chinese students a few months ago, to give their money and study in our country. So it is clear that the really progressive party is our party. I am not speaking as an infallibility, nor as a representative of the party of infallibles. But, anyway, as far as we can see, no matter how we compare things, that's obvious. You came to get better in the economy and took the developments backwards. You charged the weaker with too many and heavy measures. You came as the Robins of the poor and you made the poor, the poorer. And in education, we have the same samples of writing. Your vision, while we're in 2017, is to return to the '80s. You have a retro policy, inspired by the past decades. It is neither inspiring by Europe nor by the future nor by common sense. Do you know what my main conclusion is after all this? Your presence in the government was useful, and I recognise this, that Greek citizens can now compare, they can understand who is actually the progressive and who expresses maintenance and delay. And the maintenance and delay are clearly expressed by the government that today governs us, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u280	Mr. Adonis Georgiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u281	Mr President, may I clarify this?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u282	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u283	I will not comment on political controversy at all. In terms of foreign languages, it must be clear what is happening and what is being criticized about. Watch out. The International University has the know-how for foreign languages. Right?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u284	Not undergraduate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u285	Let me finish. It gives the opportunity for undergraduate and postgraduate. At the moment, as you know, the International University and many other universities have a lot of postgraduate in English. We're taking out postgraduate. As far as undergraduate studies are concerned, we say that there could be cooperation with the International University, not in order for the courses to be held at the International University, but in the case of where, for example, the University of Athens, the University of Thessaloniki, or whatever. So you can take this with the nine teachings of the International University...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u286	Do the optional, Minister, not binding.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u287	Which one should I make optional?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u288	Cooperation with the International University.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u289	I'll tell you. First of all, we do not abolish the old opportunity to become an English-language section, and we also say that English-language courses can take place in the existing curriculum, in order to ensure cooperation with ERASMUS, because there is one topic. So we're doing all this. Now, what don't we do? There cannot be a programme at the moment, which can lead to a degree - normal, but not two - four-year-old programme leading to a degree, where to get that degree, you must be outside the European Union and pay tuition fees. Because if you are within the European Union, you have a problem with the Greek students, who must have the right to write there, and so on, you actually put a tuition fee in the undergraduate. So we're pulling them out. So, is the outside, and I invite you to tell me what this degree is that they'll get? What rights and obligations will the people who will receive this degree have? It is neither legally defined - more generally legal - nor socially. Will you take the responsibility of saying that each department can also give a degree for those who come outside the European Union who will be with a tuition fee?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u290	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u291	Be careful, do not say 'yes' for reasons of opposition. Think about it. I say, therefore, that this is an extremely complex issue. The possibilities exist, as I have told you. Do not create impressions, because this can lead to an explosive state and social status and to the structure of universities. That's exactly what we're trying to protect with the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u292	The other Vice-Presidents of the New Republic, Mr Georgiadis, have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u293	Thank you very much, Mr President. Look, Minister, how things stand and why we say that we are unfortunately a country in which logic has been lost. We are a country with huge economic problems. It is assumed that all our society's efforts are how it will increase our gross national product, how unemployment will be reduced, how our young people will stay here and not go abroad. Isn't that what the Prime Minister says he wants to do? Now see what we have achieved for twenty years with the ideas we have managed to fight with Diamantopoulou Law and unfortunately, you are now coming to make this great setback. Twenty years ago, Turkey did not have a single private university. Do you know what happens now in Istanbul? Do you know how much billions a year Turkey gets from private universities? Do you know how much?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u294	Don't compare them. There they can't open their mouths.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u295	I'll be there.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u296	Do you want these universities?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u297	Ten years ago, Mr. Friend, because you're yelling...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u298	That's the kind of university you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u299	Don't interrupt me. I'm very vivid to see you. And before that, you interrupted Mr. Kelles. What can we do? Mr. Tsipras took you out. Let the minister who's here talk. What can we do now? You will not interrupt every speaker in the New Democracy! And I'm coming back. Ten years ago, Cyprus did not have a private university. Do you know how many hundreds of millions of euros a year the Cypriot economy takes from these universities? Five hundred million euros a year. And yet, thousands of students from Greece - you know it from your surroundings - go and study in Cyprus. And we're losing so many minutes here now, so the Minister can explain to us why the Greek public university can't find the way to get money from abroad. If that, ladies and gentlemen, is progressive, if that is the future, which you want to build, if that is what you want to offer Greece, then I will tell you something I really believe. Thank you very much! Do you know why I thank you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u300	We know. You've told us before.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u301	Because there is a debate in society. These good guys of SYRIZA are great politicians. They wanted to do a lot of things, but unfortunately their need has brought them, Minister, and this evil troika, and it does not let them apply their policy, which if they were free from the memoranda, they would apply and bring prosperity to the Greeks. And here comes the part of the education in which the troika does not exercise the suffocating control of you in the economy - badly, as it turns out - and you apply your own policy. And what are you doing? Repeat - it says - the university asylum - Mr Minister, please listen to me - because you want to defend the free movement of ideas, he says. Well, aren't we ashamed? Shall we go with you and make a speech at a university?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u302	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u303	Why don't we go? Do you know why?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u304	Because I don't want to be with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u305	Because if I go to a Greek university, where you supposedly ensure the free movement of ideas, Mr. Philie, who is now not speaking, I will burn the university and the neighborhood next door. For such a free movement of ideas exists at the Greek university, which can only talk to those with whom the hooded ones agree. Because if a student goes to talk to him, with whom the hooders do not agree, then he must be forcefully prosecuted. Or don't you remember, Mr. Philly, a few years ago, who had gone to the University of Patras to award Watson the professor who found the DNA, and a coup d'assurer stood up in front of all the Clinic and went to beat him to death, ninety years old man? Do you remember that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u306	This was done by women, because she made incredibly racist comments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u307	I'm not saying why they blamed Watson. They could blame him for what they wanted. Does that mean, Professor, Minister, that he had to be beaten?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u308	They didn't break him.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u309	They didn't break him, because a student came in before him and the student got beaten, instead of the nobelist. That's why he wasn't broken. So leave the lies. Can I say one more thing? I am ashamed of what you said to SKAI.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u310	What did I say?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u311	It's a student movement job, he says, to look after the university. What are you telling us? So, my kid needs to sit down and give panties to go to college and play wood with the hoodmen to make guarding teams? Is that your vision of students? Is that Gabroglou's vision? You are not a communist, but you have been a member of a board of terrible institutions of capitalism. You know it. Don't talk about it. Is that what they taught you? Did they teach you that the vision for the students is to make guarding teams and to beat other students up or the Bollocks? Is that the university you dream about? And what is your other big, progressive intervention? You like the word - your scary! - 'Progressive intervention'. Return - says - students in administration. Why? Why did we get the students out? Do you think it was easy when the Diamantopoulou Law was passed to get students out of the vote? You think so? Do you know what happened here in Parliament on this matter? The students' organizations and the New Democracy didn't press to not vote for this article then? At a very high political cost, I inform you, the parties then got the students off the ballots. And you know why we did it? You know, Minister, why. But your idealism doesn't leave you. And what were you, Mr. Mada? You were the new one that would erase the old one. And the new is the return to the '82 law. It's so young! That's new. And you know why we made it back then, while our party interest was in staying the students? We're the first party in the universities. Because they had arrived, Mr Manda and Mr Friend - you know it and you're embarrassed that you don't know it - that students trade in the elections with teachers and exchange matters and control the universities.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u312	Who did it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u313	Youths are known.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u314	And what are you doing now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u315	What political youths were they? Yours and the PSP.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u316	Yours, above all, on the left, who went and beat the teachers and build the offices.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u317	Mr Georgiadis, please address the House in general, not personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u318	They are shouting, Mr President, and are you making me an observation?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u319	I'm sorry?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u320	I am talking to plenary, I am interrupted underneath, and are you making an observation to me?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u321	You're addressing it personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u322	You call, too, if it is. Don't just yell underneath. Let them yell on the top. Do you think we don't remember the times when the left-wing students built the teachers in the brick offices? Don't we remember that? Don't we remember how they interrupted the conventions? Do we not remember how teachers were threatening to vote? What you did then came the Diamantopoulou Law, with the agreement of the New Democracy, to stop this pathogen. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I'm going to need a minute longer because I had a break. You say, Minister, that the management boards have not worked. It's a huge shame to say that. We had brought to the boards of command some of the world’s largest professor names. Teachers of the largest foreign universities had come. The Greek universities had started to get away from the stagnation, to go up to the international ranking tables. Because of course, a law does not work the first year. It started working at the university and headed forth and progressing. Even the teachers who supposedly reacted, when electronic voting took place, had 90%. All the teachers went and voted. What was proven? They proved they weren't going to vote with their bodies because they were afraid not to eat wood. And when they could vote with the button electronically, everyone went and voted. So do, here all of you, Pharisee hypocrites, that you don't know that there's violence in the university, that you don't know that their teachers are threatening to be beaten, that you don't know what's going on in universities every day. And you pretend, Mr. Phile, in Greek society that these are not there. Do you know why you're pretending?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u323	Let Philie go. He's not answering you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u324	Because since you are voting on the Memorandums two to two, you now want to sell progress, to show how left-handed you are.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u325	How do you know? When were you left?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u326	I've read history.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u327	When were you to have the right to judge us?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u328	Unfortunately, I know very well what left is.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u329	Mr. Georgiadis, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u330	I remember them from the university, hunting us with wood and the posters that were stuck and forcefully in what they did in the universities. I've lived in my skin. And if there was no LPD keeping a little boots in the universities, they would have collapsed the universities.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u331	Mr. Georgiadis, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u332	Only thanks to the LPD, which has come first student power, have the universities been kept upright. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] To close with everything that's going on in universities, you know it and you hide it. And Mr. Gabroglou is bringing it back to the news, because you're the ones who are! And if there wasn't the Memorandum and the Troika, so you would've done all of Greece. That's the reality, that's our progress, and that's your ideology. Rejoice those who voted for you!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u333	Mr. Consolas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u334	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u335	Here, Mr. Philly, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u336	Mr. Georgiadis gave his performance. The Greek people will judge. The important thing I want to point out is that his divisive message is based on a defamation operation of the Greek universities, and that, of course, is - there is an explanation - because in his mind he has private universities of the type of Turkey, degraded and inappropriate in all respects, to educate the Greeks. I am sorry that Mr Georgiadis has done a dealer in Turkey's private universities. It is also important that through a case-by-case report of various events, other real, other false and inflated, it showed the anatomy of partyism in universities, as only true with protagonists, but to a large extent the members of the New Democracy, teachers and students. Those who have knowledge of the universities also know of transactions for the Republican elections and transactions for the election of teachers and writings and goes on to say. So at home, the hanged man is not talking about rope, Mr. Georgiadis. Indeed, the Greek universities that have now been distinguished and distinguished internationally and have never been degraded, through a constant and agonizing scientific effort by teachers and students, the Greek universities must not underestimate and discredit them in this way to make a ruthless party game. We are proud of Greek education and the Greek universities. If some people want to send us to Turkey, to the private universities, they are entitled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u337	Mr. Consolas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u338	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds, since it has been mentioned to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u339	No, there's no personal. Mr. Consola, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u340	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, it would not have been possible for us to expect and imagine that in a debate on the organization, operation of higher education, there would be so much controversy beyond this basic principle of organisation and that it concerns a philosophical and ideological framework for the operation of universities. No one disputes that education is the largest national investment, not only now and in the past, but mainly in the years to come. It is the promotional force that the country needs to change its educational, social and developmental level. And I would like to agree with Mr Philly that perhaps the example of the Vice-President would be an example that could be redeployed with other examples. I would like to remind the National Representation, ladies and gentlemen, when on the initiative of the Minister of State at the time, Mr Phile, he had brought the Minister of Education of Cyprus to the Morphic Affairs Committee as a good practice to follow it in the country. Why, Minister, do you not follow this practice of Cyprus? Cyprus is one of the greatest pillars of education in the Mediterranean? Come on, let's follow her. That's what Mr. Friends wanted then. Because you know, in 2012, those who were at the National Representation then experienced consensus on basic principles, and what Mr Georgiadis said is true. There was consensus, a framework was created that was sustainable and competitive in the international environment. Mr Fortsakis said that one of the issues was the competitiveness of the European university, the university of the country in relation to Europe, which was linked to institutional changes at the time in 2012, with a large majority in Parliament and a reference point for the future. This is the big bet, the challenge of Greek education, education, consensus with a large majority, without hunger and dogmatism. Unfortunately, in the last two years the strangles, dogmas along with anachronism and return to the past. We have heard it from other Members of Parliament. These arrangements are postponed in 1982, in the distant past. The bill we are debating today has nothing to do with the public debate that the country would like to find today through democratic processes and with regard to the other advanced countries in Europe and here, in our neighbourhood. For me it was an unpleasant surprise, Minister, your involvement in this bill of today's Minister of Education, which I sincerely must be publicly expressed by this Step - I value him unrestrictedly as a human, but also as an academic. It is, however, given that the government does not seek the way to continue and enrich the reforms that have been made and need the education area. The government is looking for the way to win votes and addressing special audiences and the term'special audiences' - let me describe - I mean all those who in previous years had turned universities into unbattered, but also into places of infringement. The government is closing the eyes on them with the provisions on university asylum which, unfortunately, are turning us back into the past. Mrs. Keramou said attributes an example that you did not answer. It is not just'mobile'. These are dozens of other examples. Mr Georgios also raised the issue of unconstitutionalism. Can justice, police intervene only when there are felonies or incidents of criminal acts against the life of students, teachers, administrative officials? Can there not be any intervention in the event of a flood? And in these cases will the Rector Council meet? However, until the Republican Council, ladies and gentlemen, decides whether a criminal act, which has already been committed, is a flood or a slap and decides to call on the police to intervene, may have burned the university. This regulation creates a wrong message and sends a wrong message to Greek society. Obviously this is a message for those who want to cause undisturbed damage, to occupy the academic space, to exercise violence. The concept of university asylum is not a concept of asylum for violent, criminal and unlawful acts. This is a distortion of the concept of asylum. With the provisions of the bill, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government completes the attempt to control the party in the administration of universities and catalyses the concept of self-employed, abolishes the institutional councils and institutionalises a new institution, the Academic Councils of Higher Education and Research in each administrative region, which will have a dominant role. It is not only the self-interest of universities, it is a question of what the Regional Research Councils, which become inactive and decorative, will do now. In essence, the Government is moving in the opposite direction to the prevailing international trend and perception of operational independence, but also to the economic self-sufficiency of universities on the other hand. The government's aim is to control the administration of universities, to impose dissolutionary situations which, of course, - and we know it from past experience - will lead to a deficit of administration with excess transactions. This is precisely the point of the provision for the election of rectangular authorities, regulators and anti-regulators, with separate lists. Even in the election process itself, anachronism is left behind. Do you know why? Instead of choosing the incomprehensible electronic vote, we are going back to the ballot, when with all the previous provisions that the government has passed with the specific viewpoint of asylum it is more than certain that they are not guaranteed and that there will be no proper conditions for election. With regard to the provision for the participation of students in the administrative boards, no one is negative in the representation of students, since there are administrative issues relating to the framework of the university, which concern them directly. However, I do not think there is any logic in the extent of students deciding on the change of cognitive object, on the selection of manuals, on the proclamation of a peer professor, on the movement of teachers or even on the award of an honorary doctor's title. The institutional problem is also the substantial abolition of the principle of quality assurance. Mr Hatzidakis mentioned this earlier and I will not go into that. In this way, however, the distinct roles of an evaluator and an evaluator are not simply made indiscriminate, but disappear. And it's not the only bump. The selfishness and independence of universities are even destroyed by a provision. It is the provision that gives the Minister the right to exercise the veto in the establishment of a postgraduate curriculum and to exercise the right to refer back, using a seven-member committee fully controlled by the Ministry's leadership. Ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that the deception imposed by the SYRIZA Government - ANEL on account of the ideological and anachronistic dimensions that the discussion has occasionally received here at the National Representation in relation to Article 16 of the Constitution. Greece acts as the last wheel of the chariot, as the residue of another era. Some do not see what is happening in our region, in Italy, in Croatia, in Skopje, in the Balkans, in the wider Mediterranean region. Cyprus - I repeat once again - is the centre of higher education in the Mediterranean. And you know, I would like to remind you, Minister, that the previous government had established two English-speaking departments at the University of the Aegean and at the University of Crete, based in Rhodes and Rethymnon, respectively, and also established two sections of tourism in Rhodes and Rethymnon. It was not possible to continue this effort, because you did not want it, you did not believe it, and we saw the explanation you gave before in relation to this dimension. By dogmatism, you put in place a provision according to which undergraduate programmes in foreign languages should be carried out exclusively with the cooperation of the International University, which only has 10 teachers. At least, Minister, I would like from this step to say that you will strengthen and strengthen the teachers of the International University, give more credit.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u341	You're wrong again!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u342	You did not tell us about this before, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u343	And with this, Mr. Consola, get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u344	Mr President, one final point: apart from raising budgetary issues for which you have not answered, it is clear that you are driving these programmes into a shrinking process. Under the provision that teachers should teach in a programme of postgraduate studies, you are particularly devastated by regional universities, which have very much built a system of postgraduate studies from the edges of the territory and with mathematical accuracy there will be a reluctance of teachers to teach them. As much as the Minister - even a moment ago - insists that this is not the case, I fear that history will overcome us. Be sure, Minister, that the New Democracy next day and will make Greece an international education, training and lifelong learning centre and sincerely - we will all be here - with a major current abolishing what has been built by this government with idealism and fragmentation. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u345	Mr Saridis, Parliamentary Representative from the Centroon Union, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u346	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking here today about education and we are doing so today by the sacred step of democracy in the Chamber. Anyone who sees us and listens to us and anyone who knows the value and importance of our ancient ancestors in their ability to express themselves with arguments will question that today we are talking about education. We are trying to convince each other, but no one can do this, on matters regardless of the substance of the matter. Ladies and gentlemen, since there have been people trying to impose on each other either by reason or by force. At some point we progressed and understood that violence is not the only way to convince someone that we are right. There's also the power of persuasion. In Athens of Pericles, in the Democracy of the Golden Ages, which all worldwide regard as a point of reference when talking about the culture of western democracies, the art of rhetoric was born. This was mainly the result of the need for every citizen to be able to satisfy the demand that democracy had from him, that he be able to stand before a court, defend himself or accuse anyone who can publicly express his opinion to the Church of the Municipality, to be able to assume the responsibility to represent the interests of the city in a position of responsibility as holder of any public office. Democracy by its birth, therefore, required citizens to be able to express themselves, to be able to argue and to have a public debate. Today, however, education gives us little attention to this. Today children - to be honest - end the school and to a large extent, ladies and gentlemen, they do not know how to express their thoughts or their feelings. Today education does not build characters, shields youth from false dilemmas and prepares it for its future role in the progress of society, in the development of culture, in the insight of art. In this context, I would say that the education provided does not guarantee the progress of the nation, especially when those who leave abroad are generally the most educated among us. What is important is we supposedly bail on the concept of university asylum, when anyone who tries to understand what we are legislating will find that the issue, which we claim to be the asylum, is no more than who has the responsibility to call the police when a crime or a felony is being committed in these areas. At a time when we are making fire reasons for maintaining asylum, because that is how we protect the dissemination of academic ideas and ensure free expression of opinion, at the same time, if it is looking for the point that we disagree, it will find something completely irrelevant. We're not talking about university asylum. We are talking about managing the uncontrolled stress situations in the country's universities. That's what we're talking about. There is no real solution to these problems until we teach our children to respect dialogue when it comes to reasonable arguments. The Centroon Union was placed by its rapporteur, Mr Megalostakas, for all the parts of the bill. I shall therefore, in particular, speak of the amendments tabled in this bill. I shall begin with Amendment No 1176/118 on the organisation and operation of temporary accommodation facilities for refugees and migrants. The urban issues arising from the operation of the reception centres and hosting structures of refugees and migrants are perhaps the smallest in intensity of the problems created in our country by the exacerbation of the refugee crisis. That is precisely why some of these can be resolved with one amendment. We therefore facilitate the issue of permits for construction and reconstruction in order to complete some necessary work. But at the same time - to be honest - eight hundred people have been lost and will not be searched by law anymore. However, the restoration of the damage suffered by the ineffective management of the refugee flows within Greece will not be so easy. So we accept, as an act of responsibility, acceptance of the fair request of the people of Paionia in Kilkis. With regard to Amendment No 1177/119 on the completion of provisions of the Code of Conduct and the redefinition of the legislative framework of notarial associations, this amendment has sincerely dealt with us very much, as has many of our fellow citizens who practice the critical real profession of the notary. We would therefore like the Minister responsible to explain to us - because he has so far not done so - the reasoning of the amendment in question, since in the explanatory statement he invokes the need for more rapid and smooth fulfilment of the obligations of notaries, always in the light of the conduct of electronic auctions. In Amendment No 1184/126, which concerns the completion of additional work on full operational performance of submarines, the Centro Association will be placed positively, because the Greek Navy really needs its submarines. The submarines ‘KATSONIS’, ‘POPINOS’, ‘MATROZOS’ and ‘OCEANOS’ must be directly where they must and must do so. There are some 20 million missing to do this, according to what the Minister says. The 13 million are for employees' payroll at the Scaramaga shipyards. With data, then, and because we do not want to, we have a bad neighbour, a bad Erdogan, who leads Turkey more and more away from democracy, more and more away from Europe, we will be voting in favour of this amendment. Let's go to Amendment No 1185/127, with regard to the operation of the Single Independent Public Procurement Authority. Mr Papadimitriou explained to us, with regard to this amendment, that the purpose is to simplify certain procedures and to clarify the position of the Legal Adviser, who will not be able to handle matters with which the independent authority has dealt. That's a good idea. But I'm going to ask a question on my side, too. You're telling the lawyer that the independent authority hires that he can't afford the customers that the Authority controls. In the port of Thessaloniki, I would remind you, some recruitments have been made in the last few days with EUR 500 contracts, which may also lay the basis for the way in which the future investor of the forthcoming privatisation of the EGF is obliged to deal with the collective agreements. If the members of the administration of the EGF, who today have the right and responsibility for these recruitments of EUR 500, are found to work for the new investor, what will they say, what should they believe? With regard to Amendment No 1186/128, which restricts the term of office of members of the Acropolis Museum, we could call it incomprehensible, without any argument. You do it because that's how you want to do it. No argument was presented. You just make a desire for action. Let's go to Amendment No 1191/132 on the Calendarbook for Agricultural and Fisheries Personnel, extending the term of office of members of the FIFG, amending Article 9 of Law No 3996/2011, extending the duration of a special unemployment subsidy scheme for former workers in the Greek Sugar Industry and extending the term of office of a working doctor. This amendment is that it was 'the apple of Erido', not its content, but for which Ministry it was tabled and for whether the doctor of work is a matter for the Ministry of Labour or the Ministry of Health. Other words to be loved, ladies and gentlemen! What does the special subsidy of the unemployed of the Greek Sugar Industry have to do with the working doctor? [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] As far as Amendment No 1192/133 is concerned, which concerns the 'Society of Information S.A.', it is another mistake by mistake - as Mrs Gerovaci has explained - that we are forced to legislate simply to change terminology. In the meantime, of course, we are also changing the recruitment process. The sloppyness of the government's legislative practices has no end. Therefore, this will not be the last mistake we have to correct with the delayed amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, the issues of education must be dealt with here all - but all - as matters that determine the course of a nation. Different approach can bring about a greater blow to Hellenism than any other threat added to the already long list of threats to our country. The list of these threats is constantly growing. But that doesn't scare me. It scares me that only on paper in the bill that has been tabled is the subject of today's debate and that is the subject of education. Our country deserves something much better than that we are discussing here today for education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u347	Before giving the floor to the next speaker, who is Mr Kumucasos, and because I have now taken over the Chair, I would like to address all the parliamentary groups to come to an agreement. You know very well that the end of today's sitting is at 12 o'clock. Until then and in keeping with the time, the seven-minute period to which each Member is entitled, it remains to speak yet about thirteen Members. I would suggest, on the basis of this design, that we end with Ms. Megalo-Economics at today's meeting. So it's the thirteenth since we start this cycle - let me know. If we agree, we will proceed like this. I say this so that the Members, who are in the slap, may also know, so that they do not expect or are within the timescale, to speak. As far as I can see, we agree. Mr Kumucasakos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u348	Thank you, Mr President. You will allow me to begin with something that has been said before Mr Philly. Mr Philly, I have heard you shovels against private universities in Turkey. You should be concerned, however, because either this evening or perhaps tomorrow morning you will get a phone call from Maximos. They will comment on you, because a year ago the Prime Minister, your Chief, became an honorary doctorate of Political Economy at the non-state, at the private university of Izmir, "Izmir Ekonomi Universitesi". In these universities that you have deceived your President is an honorary doctor, and you need to find an excuse why you have deceived the universities that have made your Prime Minister an honorary doctor. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister you are missing but you will come and know very well that research, science and education have provided and at the same time have been an open window in the knowledge world. Creative contrast, the composition of different opinions, knowledge, experiences, led to progress, growth, wealth production and fairer distribution. This is the world of knowledge and science, open, free. In order to achieve all of this, four basic conditions are required for each education system: First of all, freedom, Mr Secretary, that is to say the release of education and science from the suffocating control of the state. The second condition is dignity, excellence and reward as an incentive for progress. Thirdly, the flexibility and adaptability of education in the conditions and requirements of each age. The fourth condition is extroversion, because it is not meant, there is no introverted knowledge, it is not a closed education system. However, the specific draft law we are debating today does not guarantee any of it. Instead of opening an educational window in the world, it shuts down, it also locks the windows, it pulls the curtains, dark and heavy. Your bill is a plan for enclaving higher education, enclaving and enclaving it, enclaving in the narrow limits of your ideology. It's a backward act. It's a reactionary act of a museum of neutrality. You are not interested in opening education to modern worlds, to competition, to merit, to production, only interested in giving left orthodox credentials to your already shrinked audience. The regression bill you are introducing brings a suffocating, excessively restrictive and bureaucratic framework for postgraduate programs, cancels their development perspective and condemns them to extinction. It disorganizes the operation of the Rector by providing for the election of Vice-Presidents in separate lists, with the ultimate objective of party control of the institutions, abolishes the Foundation Councils, eliminating the effort to retain further transparency and accountability to the institutions. It hits the institutions' self-interest and exposes them to political and party purposes. It reduces the assessment, the Independent Quality Assurance and Certification Authority. The Minister may now proceed to the creation, merger, abolition of universities and schools, even without the assent of the Authority. It restores an obsolete and dangerous concept of academic asylum, an version that undermines acts of immunity and lawlessness in universities. It closes the eye in the Roman student movement - it is the other name of the boulevards - in order to repeat decadent practices of deterioration of universities and ultimately non-liberal practices within the academic community. It abolishes the designation of conduct in secondary education. It's perhaps anachronistic practice, but modernize it. Do not remove everything you cannot improve. Involves students in decision-making procedures on matters that they cannot know or do not relate to. We want to make this clear - clearly in favour of the participation of students in the management bodies of the institutions, but in matters relating to them. What position does the student have to decide on matters such as the award of honorary, honest or honorary doctoral qualifications, such as the movement of teachers from and from one section to another or also the change in the cognitive object to which a teacher has already been appointed? None. Ladies and gentlemen, does the draft law respond to the needs of modern education? Obviously, no. Is he solving school operating problems? Oh, no. Does it ensure development for the extroversion of universities? Oh, no. Does he serve the principles of essential and modern education? Oh, no. Gentlemen of the government, you do not understand that to have an ideological alibi among you in education at least, since you cannot have it in the economy, in other words, for deafness, put the universities on a decline and betray the dreams of young people. You're mortgageing their progress and their future. You're kicking them out of the country. What we should be concerned about today is the search for ways of real modernisation: How to put the Greek universities up, on the lists of the best universities in the world. How to promote innovation terms. How to use the latest technology trends to reach foreign institutions' standards. How to favour the self-employed of universities. How to avoid the bleeding of Brain drain. How to avoid producing unemployed. How to build solidly an educational policy that responds to the real needs of society and the market. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. We want education that is lactating and forging real citizens. This is our choice: the open horizon of free education. Your choice is the heavy shadow of introversion and fear. Ultimately, your bill is an attempt to block the future. It's not reform. It's anti-reformation. It's an ideal vanity. At the same time, however, unfortunately, it is also a criminal vanity. Because yes, he will not stand the test of time, but in the meantime he will have deprived of education and education valuable time to go ahead of a time when knowledge, science, research and innovation everywhere in the world are happier. Today's attempt to depreciate and incarcerate education at the narrow limits of your outdated perceptions is another step of decline for the country. It adds to other: In the unacceptable way of legislating, poisoning parliament and democracy. In the charming attacks on justice. Continuous underground flirt with tolerance to disorder and lawlessness. At the low level of political dialogue, through the constant lies, of a lie that eventually erods everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u349	Mr. Kumucaco, can we finish, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u350	I shall conclude, Mr President. You're doing it today. You're trying to change the lie to truth and the truth to lie. But all of this, and the way you legislate and what you legislate especially today, are symptoms of a deep decline, but also phenomena of your agony. It is a precursor of your fall, of a fall that inevitably, colleagues of SYRIZA and ANEL will come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u351	Mr George Stylos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u352	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating the government's counter-reformation of education, a law which actually represents all the previous steps. The draft law we are debating is nothing but a copy of the provisions of the past, with a reference to the 1982 framework law. What does today's draft law include? Emphatically, it returns higher education decades back with its centralist and bureaucratic character that removes from autonomy, autonomy, independence of higher education institutions. It confers powers and powers on the Minister and on various committees to intervene and decide on a number of points of procedural nature, which in essence abolish the functioning of the departments and go further, with the culmination of manipulation and the abolition, we could say, postgraduate. It restores asylum by deciding on the lifting of asylum under the jurisdiction of the Republican Council. It restores the participation of students in the management bodies of institutions, which will also decide on non-university issues. And all this, why, ladies and gentlemen? Does it respond to the draft law that we are discussing the problems and challenges of the time before us? Does it respond to the employers' inability to find skilled personnel with knowledge? Is it connected to the labour market with education, as is being done in all the universities in the advanced countries through postgraduate? Does it enable the best of them to act in our higher education, giving them motivation? Does it open up our universities in the world, taking advantage of our enormous comparative advantage that our cultural heritage and the love of our peoples for learning is? Is it stirring the brain leak? None of these challenges responds to the government's bill. Ladies and gentlemen, at a time when the curriculum programmes are adapted to modern data, which are changing at an inaccurate rate, where all and everything is linked, information, scientific staff, students, researchers, at a time when borders fall, at a time when with the power of universities, libraries, workshops, together create new areas of research and science, at a time when universities change cities, societies themselves, which give prestige to their countries, we return to their countries in the past by celebrating, at a closed, malnutrition, introverts and miserable university, surrendered to the artisany, collectives and bracelets, a university which has been diffused by government officials from their ministries, as if they are better aware of their needs, problems and current challenges. Suffocating centralism, suffocation, bureaucracy, micropolitical, micro-interesting, compromises, opacity win against evaluation, transparency, extroversion and accountability. This picture is consistent with the model of the Government for Greek society, a society of minor effort, where the advancement, excellence, the intensity of work is "retsinia", with huge deficits of competitiveness. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is not just about higher education. It continues with the same philosophy in both secondary and other fields. On the issue of training directors, you are trying to overcome the stumbling block of the Council of State to put your own people in positions of responsibility, on the sole criterion of the party, as you did to the regional training directors and as you did with the councils chosen by the school directors, where the regional director appointed by you, Minister, had control and majority control. With regard to the abolition of the provision for the qualification of pupils' conduct, there is no plan for school. How will our children be disciplined so that they are aware of their rights and their obligations, their freedoms and their responsibilities, so that they become people of a strong character and become socialized? Ladies and gentlemen, I am reminded of the expression of a former Minister of the first SYRIZA - ANEL, who spoke about his left hand. You are replacing this specific device for conducting by nothing. Ladies and gentlemen, in essence, this bill is seen as an opportunity to take repetitions from reality. From the EUR 12 billion of measures and benefits of the Thessaloniki programme, following the heroic negotiations and the constant defeats and retreats and the fucked-ups, you have reached EUR 14.5 billion. This bill is a left relanche and an attempt to make your own left profile, applying all your ideas and political deported to the backs of young people. I see a provision in the bill you're talking about on natural paper about the choice of authorities in universities. Do you agree with this provision? Will you vote in favour of it? I think you will be voting in favour of it. But will you vote for another amendment brought by the Justice Minister who talks about electronic auctions? You're not with the poor? Aren't you the ones who want to protect the first residence? Will you vote on the amendment by the Minister of Justice? Let's see who's acting today. Ladies and gentlemen, you are well aware that this bill will not be implemented. Why a new government, the New Democracy government, will immediately overthrow it, opening a window in the modern world, with universities free to regulate their own homes, with flexibility, with extroversion and dynamism, seeking resources beyond state funding, will create synergies with the market, partnerships with foreign universities, create foreign-language departments, to attract foreign students with the best teachers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. I'm done. And all this, Minister, at a time when you have effectively abolished from a department in high-preference schools, in polytechnics, in medicine, in law in our country, and our students are leaving abroad and we are losing valuable capital, while we are going to create non-state universities that will be served by our young scientists who are desperately leaving abroad today. Ladies and gentlemen, our country will move on, to and without today's government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u353	Mr. Constantine Spartinus has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u354	Thank you, Mr President. As I enter the Step after a series of six, seven colleagues from New Democracy, I would like to make a comment. I found a very kind speech, I would say, among colleagues who will raise tons more in a sterile opposition tactic and who will present the image of today's university as gruesome as possible. I would say that this noble amulet peaked with the positions of the two Vice-Presidents of the New Democracy, where I have to admit that Mr Georgiadis - with apologies for the expression -'stopped' by Mr Hatzidakis. He presented an image especially of the Greek University, which has probably emerged from the Hell of Dante. I wonder how the abolition of asylum in 2011 could not act as the appropriate purgatory to make this hell of the university a paradise today. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know that this is not the image of the Greek university. Those who are presenting it like this have very specific reasons for doing so. I fear that these reasons are not just opposition, but are others, that is, the reasons for serving specific interests. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, this week three very important draft laws are being discussed in plenary. The two of them touch the hearts of the social state, the things about education and health, two areas which, both in our country and internationally, had been the goal of neoliberal capitalism in the last decades. They had become the aim of the policies of austerity, commercialisation, speculation, as the sovereign forces tried to face the crisis of the last period, seeking to reverse the downward trend in the profit rate and use inactive funds with speculative predators in education and health. In our country, especially in the field of education, this effort was attempted in 2011 with Law 4009, which became known under the name of the Secretary of State at the time, PASOK, a law that then appeared with communal confessions from all over the old political system as a modernist achievement, but which, like all the successes, did not last long and certainly failed to prevent the progress of the collapse of PASOK, the political disappearance of the Minister, the revealing of his ideology. The large parliamentary majority with which he had finally voted was only valued as a rehearsal of the government majority created after the 2012 elections. Today, in the field of education and social goods in general, the inability to retain the neoliberal model or its application with very low quality results that could not be convincing in practice has been proven. The government with this draft law wants to restore the functioning of a higher education in public, open to children of all social classes, democratic, but also to participate in the country's development prospects without violating its self-worth. He wants to overthrow the logic of L.4009/2011, where since then citizens, students and parents have been treated as customers, even if it had not been explicitly then formulated, as was recently made by the President of the New Democracy. On the pretext of linking production and development, the university was then attempted to demarcate itself from market forces. The draft law, as an essential response to this pretext, launches the creation of a single area of higher education and research involving universities, TEIs, research centres, the institution of the Academic Councils of Higher Education and Research. This is how the human resources and infrastructure currently available in higher education institutions and research centres in the country remain untapped, and may, through their cooperation, support the real development potential of each region. The aim for a higher education open to children of all social classes is to be served by the arrangements for guaranteeing the public character of universities by the framework for funding scholarships for undergraduate and postgraduate students, doctors, postdoctors, research teams, as well as for supporting social care structures and practical student training. In this respect are the arrangements for postgraduate studies that can and must be improved by improving the country's financial data, which in addition aim to reorganise and guarantee the quality of a rapidly growing course in Greek universities and not to manage them from closed courses of teachers. The democratic functioning of universities is strengthened by the abolition of management councils and the establishment of a rectoral council, the election of dean and vice-presidents in separate ballots, in order to avoid the creation of safe and transparent transactions, the strengthening of the role of Quaestors, the reintroduction of the board of directors to departments, the participation of all departments in the Senate, the reintroduction of student representation and university asylum. These are the institutional framework necessary for a democratic university. Of course, his democratic function also depends on the respective function and active involvement of the student movement, teachers and workers not only in the institutions, but also on the daily life of the university, a movement of democratic, living, unwritten but not liquidated. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall now conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, even in today's difficult budgetary conditions, we can clearly show our own plan in the field of education, a countermeasure of what is proposed by the Qualified Anti-Population and its paranormals. Our project perceives education as a social good and autism, part of the long democratic Greek and European social and intellectual heritage and part of our overall political project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u355	Thank you. Mr Ioannis Andrianos from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u356	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that it has become clear from the debate in plenary so far, but also from the debate in committee, our fundamental disagreement with this bill, a bill that is regressive and introverted and certainly does not respond to the real and imperative needs of higher education in our country. And that's not just our conclusion. It is the conclusion, I believe, of every citizen who attended the debate without party blips and in the committee, but also today's debate and saw the SYRIZA officials taking lessons of democracy. He heard Mr Paradise say about asylum that if the police are allowed to enter the other light crimes, then we have no asylum institution in force. And so, of course, it explains why you have removed, Minister, from your original plan the misdemeanours. He heard the Minister, Mr Gabroglou, say if the good guys are to leave abroad because they are not paid - for the teachers - I suggest they leave. We have heard the Minister say about red lines on democratic issues. But I would like to ask him this: do you, Minister, have any red lines on democracy? Is that all your privilege? In order to make this clear, therefore, the New Democracy party does not accept it. And while, Minister, you are giving the image of the mild and kind colleague, ironic admonitions and reversals of the press "I don't know if fellow Members can understand what Mr. Paraskevi said about asylum" or today a moment ago that if you rated Members' speeches as students, you would cut them off...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u357	Some.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u358	You have not clarified it for some. So, Minister, these admonitions do not honor you. They really show my fellow Members and really do not have a place in parliamentary morals. On the one hand, you are asking for consensus and on the other hand, you are arrogant. I'm not used to using these words and that style, but you've really been surprised at us lately. And I want to tell you to get off the horse of the doom. I mean, you've got a lot of contradictions. You are talking about a disastrous landscape in education, on the other hand, you highlight the important work and only a few unorthodox works you have found, as you said in committee. How, then, do these connect to each other? Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that our logic, our vision and our philosophy of education are in the opposite direction to the government majority. We therefore want universities openly, with strong self-government, creatively, able in all respects to take their decisions and implement creative initiatives. We want universities that act as the most effective lever of social mobility, open to all young people, regardless of the financial capacity and the social background of their family, universities that give substantial opportunities for education and promotion to all who have talent and will. We want universities closely linked to society and the labour market that seek and conquer excellence, which actively attract young people from our home and abroad, and give them the supplies and incentives to stay in the country and move forward. We want universities that are not afraid, but seek continuous assessment and competition, in the belief that these are the necessary conditions for improvement. We want universities that have the necessary resources, material, intangible and human resources to successfully carry out their missions and which forcefully claim more and more, through the use of all available opportunities and through synergies with other academic institutions, with actors from civil society and the market, which certainly respects the distinctive nature and role of each party and produce mutual benefit. Of course, we want universities with total freedom to express themselves and to disseminate ideas, but with no tolerance to infringing and committing criminal offences. Why traveling students and teachers without fear at universities every hour of the day and not being afraid to express their ideas freely in front of the threats of the bullies should not depend on the soundness of the student movement, as you said, Minister, yesterday in some interview. Nor, of course, are we honoured by the image of the Economic University in Patisia and the other university buildings throughout the country where the smugglers of smugglers are located, who of course do not commit any felony against life, so with the government's logic they are uninvited by law. But they sell their business unnoticed, while some measures below, alongside, there are legal stores that pay taxes and contributions. So our vision is in the completely opposite direction to the government's policies. This is also the vision for universities in the vast majority of the countries of the world. Instead of seeing how we will strengthen universities, how we encourage self-government and creative initiatives, a suffocating framework is created in this bill, aimed at new bureaucratic obstacles and, of course, at the service of micro-groups, I can say, feasibility. We disagree with the regulations that affect the sustainability of postgraduate programmes, which create obstacles to the creation of new postgraduate courses in Greek and foreign languages. So we see what has happened in Cyprus over recent years, how this country has evolved into an important point for providing education services in the wider region. And, of course, we disagree with the micro-group regulations on the election of counter-regions and, as I said, the regression towards asylum. As far as lifelong learning and vocational education are concerned, we have tabled our reservations and the provisions of Article 48, which we believe are inconceivable and will create some problems, but also in the absence of substantial, substantial transitional provisions in Article 86. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is in the wrong direction, rather than, of course, some dispersible arrangements, which have positive elements, such as the forecasts - and I have told the committee - for the multitude, for the third-party, for Article 78, for the fifteen additional days of sick leave to the substitutes and, of course, for the payment of overtime compensation to the Vice-Presidents and directors of the second-rate schools, who are, in fact, doing important work in difficult circumstances. We, unlike you, are not dogmatic, and these few positive elements will be supported. But it is clear that with this bill, instead of moving forward, we are taking steps back. Instead of opening the universities in the world, in society and in the market, you're enclosing them in the bankrupt logic of the past. Instead of unleashing the creative forces, you legislate new and completely unnecessary interventions of the Ministry and new bureaucratic obstacles. It is therefore clear that we will vote against this bill in principle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u359	The Minister has the floor to table some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u360	Mr Adriane, I really do not want to hurt any of my colleagues, and I apologise if anyone is hurt. I just want a corresponding sensitivity not from you - because you have shown it in practice - for these incredible things that have been written and told these weeks in literature and party statements. I'm stopping here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u361	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u362	Don't go on with it. Read every day and you as well as I do. Things have been said and written that degrade our level of democracy. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u363	Minister, please have a lot to do with the legislative improvements, after you have asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u364	Minister, and I respectfully say this - this irritation must not be carried over to the Chamber and these deceiving positions must be made.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u365	Please calm down. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u366	Let's stop it here. It's late, and tomorrow we have a whole day. Mr President, I have several legislative improvements, particularly in terms of the agreement of the Senates with an increased majority, to rename and change seats, schools and departments in general. Student elections for participation in the institutions will be by direct secret and universal suffrage. There are some technical issues of jewelry and how the corresponding majorities will be found. The way of transferring funds from the PPE to the Bank of Greece is also specified. The way in which researchers are elected to the Athens Academy is regulated. It's such legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u367	Good. You can testify to them to share in the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u368	We have some amendments. The amendment under number 1201 is accepted. It is a parliamentary amendment tabled by the Members. Big-fashioned and Saridis. It concerns the participation of students with a right of speech in the administration of the Open University. There's one of the Centroon Associations.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u369	How are they going to be chosen?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u370	From the club they have. The club can be represented there too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u371	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u372	Please, Mr. Constantopoulos, do not interrupt. Minister, how many amendments are being made?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u373	That's enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u374	For everyone?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u375	Tell me what you want me to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u376	I would ask you, in order to understand it, at the moment you are announcing amendments to this House which you are accepting. They're obviously parliamentary.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u377	Look, a lot of those who've come are the ministers. I won't talk about them again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u378	Good. I would ask you to say what you are accepting in a short time. Mr Minister, in order to reach agreement, please tell the House a great deal, which of the parliamentary amendments - the ministers have supported them anyway - you are accepting them. Isn't that your intention? Isn't that why you asked for the reason?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u379	Yeah, I'm just not accepting some. If you want, I'll explain why I'm not accepting them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u380	But we're gonna get far, right? Time's running out. We have a timeline.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u381	I fully agree with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u382	Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u383	We accept Amendment No 1175, which is for trainers abroad, Muffetia and the Catholic Church for some distractions, which are from Mr. Bolaris, from Mr. Athanasiou, Mrs.Jakris, Ms.Tegioridou, Mr. Syrigos, etc. It is an amendment that we think can well accept. It is the amendment under a general number 1175. Amendment No 1194 can be accepted only in respect of the second part, while carrying out the duties of educators in attendance. The amendment with a general number 1183, which is from Mr Stephos, Mr Excellency, etc. - it is from a number of Members - who are related to trainers who cannot cover hours and go to swimming pools and, if I am not mistaken, go to places supervised by the General Secretariat of Sports. There is an amendment signed by Mr Dousina with a general number of 1198 concerning the specificization of the cooperation procedure with the International University for Foreign Language Parts. It involves the jewelry and involves a committee of the Ministry, as well as a ministerial decision that can make this cooperation concrete. We're making her acceptable. There is a ministerial amendment with a general number 1197 relating to the following: we add to the twenty-nine foreign schools and the American Agricultural School of Thessaloniki. There is an issue of permission and we add it to foreign schools. In the same amendment is the adequacy of qualifications in foreign language teaching in private teachers in the same amendment. One of the basics is the single payroll - a rating of the civil servants who applied until 2015. For wage classification in the public sector, a service was recognised as having been established in the public sector of the Member States of the European Union for up to seven years. This was not possible to apply to people who were in private education, were fired and then working in public education. The General Accounting Office of the State accepts this service as well in terms of salary. Headings of the Legal Board of the State at Panteion University, etc. This is a ministerial amendment with a general number 1197 and it is tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u384	For the EPPs you said, will the arrangements be made?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u385	Oh, no. Look, you are now telling the natural persons whom they owed and who had not paid.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u386	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u387	What we're doing is giving up the ability to give. This could not be the same regulation as companies for the simple reason that a large proportion of the sums owed to universities have been paid for. There is an issue of moral order and there is a matter of legal order. So we're going to give very favourable instalments to repay these debts.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u388	Good. Mr Andreas Koutsoubas has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u389	Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot avoid, following the speech and at this point in time of the Minister, the political temptation and I cannot comment on the way in which this House is legislating. It is one way that not only deceives Parliament or degrades its way of working, but I will give another political dimension. It breaks down this phenomenon of the pile of amendments, the SYRIZA account of the Government and the alleged argument that there was a plan and strategy for governance of this place. The main thing, however, I am afraid, ladies and gentlemen, is that in the way we operate, we are leading to a transformation - although I have been here in Parliament, as you know, in recent years a highly parliamentary - of our Parliamentary Republic of Parliament in a Ministerial Parliamentary Republic, unfortunately, with all the consequences it has. Let us come to the bill, which we are debating today. In parliamentary democracies no doubt, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the ruling majority has its political philosophy, it has its own political platform, as you left-wingers like to say, to bring the bills to a vote, contrary to us right-wing ones. Understood and inalienable your right. But, after the debate on this bill so far, the refusal of the anti-population complex for a good reason for the elements of this bill, but also for all the stakeholders, I think we all agree that this bill has no prospect. Legislation in the past. In order to satisfy a left audience, to collect the left-hand components for political survival, bring these provisions in order to save you politically. I cannot deal with all the provisions of the bill, because there are many provisions. After all, as the previous speaker said, on our side and on our side and on our side, how interesting these provisions of how the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and of the election of the bodies are to be taken into account, etc. What concerns me and will focus on in a consensual climate, Minister, is three points. The first is the provision on student participation. Participate, but to what extent? I fear that this provision will bring problems of functionality to the rector authorities, to the functioning of universities. The second thing that has not been mentioned by many Members, and we have thus exceeded it, forgetting the hooliganism and trabucism prevailing in secondary and primary education, is the abolition of conduct. It may not be important, say some people are outdated, but I fear that this underlying lawlessness and illegality will be further extended and more problems will arise in the relations between students. I'm staying in third. Many colleagues have dealt with this, the subject of the asylum provision. I will try not to repeat what colleagues from the Opposition have said before you, but to focus on the following points: We all agree on asylum, but really, you wondered, Minister, and ladies and gentlemen, that at the moment, parents, fathers, the majority - if you like - of society are against the confiscations, that there are students who want to study, have passion for learning and do not want occupations, that they do not want criminal behaviour, which, unfortunately, will continue with this provision and will become even more dangerous? This provision shows tolerance to lawlessness and infringibility. I have the luck, Minister - and I told you at our meeting with the committee - to have a student's son, who gave me the opportunity to do with other fellow students all the time together and to exchange views which do not necessarily belong to my area: Manos, who is currently working to finish his studies in Chios. The queen who goes to the manavio. The Yannis who goes to water the fields on the Kopaida. The kids who want open universities. And you, in this way and with this provision - I am quoting, and we have had disarmament and indecisiveness to fight against this phenomenon of criminal behaviour - are suffering this lawlessness. We'll find it in front of us. You are sowing winds and we will reap - not us as government tomorrow, but the state and society - storms.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u390	What's happened for so many years?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u391	I came to point out something different. Don't interrupt me. Perhaps you are not so parliamentary and you want to interrupt. You may not agree with me, but you do not have to answer. Let me tell you something. First of all, I said that we too were responsible for showing disarmament and indecisiveness. But I say to you that by order, as you bring it, you will be able to be moral perpetrators of criminal acts and behaviours that will happen in universities. You will be the ones who will be obliged to pay the public property. I have not heard any of you say to parents, to society, who will pay the damages, who will pay the criminals. That's what society wants. He wants an open university to be a university for learning, asylum of ideas, not a criminal asylum.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u392	Mr Athanasios Bouras has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u393	Thank you, Mr President. I will start with two comments on two amendments, making a small criticism, although they will be in the ears of no listeners. For the first time this is what is happening today, that is, the parade of Ministers. We never saw such phenomena again. They came, they said, and they came in. And they didn't explain why. I shall refer to Amendment No 1185 tabled by Mr Papadimitriou, concerning the Single Independent Public Procurement Authority. In other words, it is going to intervene in this public independent authority. I will simply say to everyone you want - and disprove me - that it deletes an important word that this public Independent Public Procurement Authority had in its rights. It repeals the assent. In other words, the word 'concordance' is removed. You understand that another power and responsibilities of the Minister. There is something else that the lawyers of you must listen to. It employs a private legal counsel to assist the legal counsel of the State. I shall also refer to Amendment No 1189, since it is the responsibility of the sector I have the honour of being on the New Democracy side. It was presented by Mr Haritsis, who has certainly asked me - I must say - for my opinion. But at that moment, at the last minute, I can't have any opinions. I ask the following question if he can hear me from the closed circuit: has the State Aid Authority been consulted? Would the abolition of the same participation of JHA - would we not object - is it contrary to the State aid directives through the public investment programme? As far as overtime is concerned, another paragraph of this amendment comes to regulate matters of overtime work for workers in the special NSRP services, that is to say, to complete two laws of 2017. This shows how reluctantly it is to legislate and does not, in my view, ask the familiar and praiseworthy people within the ministries of Economy and Finance, the officials and the executives of the CFO, who are special and worthwhile. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I call for your tolerance, Mr President, as you have shown before. Minister of Education, you surprised me. You started a lecture when you took the floor and at some point of course entered the law. And you have surprised me not only, but all the colleagues from all sides - I will not mention them - when you have taken lessons of democracy, even saying that there is no democracy. You know this fact you must all be grateful for it, because Constantine Karamanlis has restored democracy, of course, with the consent of all parties. And I don't know why you're talking about democracy. So you and I, who served the higher education institutions, didn't we have a democracy? Of course, there have been problems, there are problems and there will be problems. You have spoken about logistics and I sincerely challenge you and please tell us exactly what you have done today. Because the Secretary next to you - it was for you - to come to my area and inaugurate a state-of-the-art school of what you demonized when you were in Anti-Population. He was in Coroppi, Mr. Darkness...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u394	You pushed two and a half thousand teachers out of the PSAs.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u395	...which took place under the PPP procedure. They started in 2014, and now of course you're cutting ribbons. Tell us, of course, what infrastructure you have done for education in these two and a half years. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a draft law tabled just before the House closed down in the last week of July with the sovereigns and, of course, the entire society. Because society is absent too. Because at the moment the world is in trouble and the suffering told it to take a little vacation. And you chose such a critical piece of legislation to bring it to this timeframe that the people in charge are missing, all the actors in education are missing, even the parents and guardians are missing. With this bill you are downgrading the country's higher education and dismantling it, instead of regulating it. Lead education to the introversion, over-regulation, centralism, while your legislation brings a crucial blow to the self-insurance of the HEIs. It gives no vision and no prospects for growth. It introduces a suffocating and bureaucratic framework for postgraduate programmes, which lead to the decline. Of course, both in the committee I have attended and today - all day I have not left at all - our rapporteur, Mrs Keramea, and all the honourable Members on the New Democracy side have said everything. But you will allow me, too, just as long as I can make an outline of things. Academic asylum: Minister, I will tell you nothing. I shall read myself out the report of the Scientific Office of the Parliament. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It says the report: ‘In the present case, with the proposed regulation referred to in the second paragraph of Article 3, the automatic intervention of public power in premises of the HEI is permitted only in cases of crimes and crimes against life. A problem may therefore arise in relation to the provision of effective protection against other crimes, in particular self-defense. Finally, it is noted that the distinction between crimes against life and crimes against physical integrity is sometimes difficult to diagnose at the time of their execution.’ Minister, are they also appointed to accuse you of being criticised at this time? Do they have party instructions, which you invoke? We repeat that there must be intervention by the authorities for all offences. Because you're telling us we don't have positions. Here is our position and it is in line with this high service we have and we are consulting. Didn't you live up to the unacceptable situation - you're an academic - that shaped the asylum to all of us?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u396	Mr. Bourra, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u397	From there on, Mr President, with your little tolerance, because...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u398	Hey, how much tolerance, Mr. Bourra?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u399	You know, I have also dealt with two amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u400	We've reached eight and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u401	And when are we gonna say something? Leave it a little, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u402	How little, Mr. Bourra? Excuse me, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u403	Just a minute, I'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u404	This is at the expense of other colleagues. How is it going to happen now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u405	Foreign languages undergraduate, postgraduate studies, bureaucracy and backwardness, administrational elections. What makes you change? Are you telling us something that you have seen from the administration for so many years that the elections to the Republican and other authorities operate in the collective bodies of universities and higher education? I have been one of these and worked together when I was practicing administration, with people who did not belong to the same place, but we went down to the same single ballot. And my colleagues have told you that you will have divided and ruled here. That's your perspective. From there on, we say 'yes' to the representation of students. We had it and we have it, but in matters concerning students, not at all. They cannot enter the scientific fields they study to learn. I will not abuse any more of your kindness, Mr President. Minister, you want another type - you confessed and confessed. You don't go to supplement or improve problems that exist and exist in universities. You want introvert institutions, ministries, without their regulated selfishness. We want free, autonomous, self-sufficient, extrovert, competitive, co-operating with each other and with foreign universities. We want our country a beacon of knowledge and attracting students from all over the world. Thank you for your tolerance too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u406	The speaker of SYRIZA Mr Panagiotis Skourikos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u407	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, given the assumption that between the parties there is ideological diversity and distance, there are differences in how they see society and its processes and differences in what they ultimately choose to heal the needs of society, it is certain that the area of education is an area where these differences manifest themselves and confrontation sometimes gets conflicting features. Poor thing. But obviously, otherwise the opposition sees society, otherwise SYRIZA and the SYRIZA - ANEL government. Obviously, another is our vision of education and yours. I particularly address those parties that have given examples of destructive writing. I am referring, of course, to the New Democracy and PASOK, which have been afflicting education with their incredible interventions during their governance over the past few years. We see education at the service of the many, accessible by many, which does not deprive the public of its public character, which will not turn into a merchandise in the hands of skilled market managers, which wants to direct knowledge and research into areas which facilitate its profits and only. What ironic is the New Democracy called the "non-public universities" private universities, the private businesses it publishes. This bill, rightly, pedagogically regulates all our children's learning path from preschool age. It extends compulsory education to twelve years and preschool education to two years. It restores the importance of vocational training. Remind the two and a half thousand teachers' redundancies from this space, a very favorite sport and sport? May I remind you of the total deception of your governments in the PES? Really, what technicians will support the work of polytechnic engineers? What will tomorrow's technicians be in a thousand two categories and with what knowledge? The apprenticeship next to the master, like old times? This bill introduces a new, more attractive structure in the professional high school, broadens the access of graduates to higher education for those who choose it. There are two-year vocational schools at the Higher Education Institutions and the TEIs, which will provide the PES graduates with European certification for their specificity. Genuine impetus is given to both the TEIs in terms of their completeness and the science of their studies. TEIs have now evolved. The fourth year of study is recognized as a master and the administrative bodies are streamlined. This bill also opens up new horizons for TEIs: Higher Education Institutions, our universities. New academic rules come to revive and give a wider perspective to higher education in our country. They are what you do not see: encouraging cooperation with foreign universities, the institutional cooperation between universities, TEIs and research centres in a region with the establishment of the Academic Councils of Higher Education and Research which contribute to the development of their region, the reintroduction of student participation in the administration of universities, the establishment of greater representativeness in the institutions of the Administration of Higher Education Institutions by selecting prerogatives from a separate list, while neglecting the monolithic rector schemes of the past, the regulation of the rules on academic asylum, where academic freedom is guaranteed, since no problem has been solved with L.4009/2011. Asylum is a matter of dialogue, ladies and gentlemen, and not of repression. But what do we do? Others choose dialogue and others are addicted to repression. It is important to restore transparency in the management of research funds at the Higher Education Institutions and the rules imposed at last on postgraduate institutions. Postgraduate courses are finally being organised so that those who do not have 15 000 to 20,000 euros to attend. Teaching in such a programme is an academic obligation of teachers and not an opportunity to supplement income simply by industrial production of expensive postgraduate money. Seriously, won't university teachers be interested in teaching in postgraduate programs if they don't get paid badly? Let me inform you that the teachers are honoring their work in their overwhelming majority. Don't underestimate them and insult them with all that you've been saying here for so long. The logic of the private university within the public High School of Education is unacceptable and insulting for the Greek taxpayer, who requires especially at this time of the crisis you have reserved us, ladies and gentlemen, for his child to have free and equal to all other children, rich and poor, access to knowledge, education, preparation. Ladies and gentlemen, the institutional areas which this bill attempts, in the circumstances of committee and economic closeness, open up a path more bright, qualitative and with a democratic mark on education in our country. I urge you to overcome any ideological obsessions that make it difficult for our children's lives to be educated for years now and to vote for it, giving the opportunity to the children of our country at last to have one - I will say the word that you have mocked it, but it is very beautiful - Romance and better education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u408	Mr. John Rabbit has the floor from Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u409	The bill has also mentioned in detail our special speaker and the parliamentary representative will also speak, but I would like to stand by some scandalous amendments that have been tabled once again by SYRIZA - ANEL, as he does. I would like to focus in particular on Amendment No 1177/119. So this amendment is about the electronic auctions brought by the left-wing government. They are therefore the left-wing auctions brought by the democratic left-wing government, so that the homes of Greek citizens are lost by pressing a few buttons for money they owe to banks or elsewhere. So, the democratic left-wing government of SYRIZA decided to disappear these houses within two minutes from the Greek citizen. Did the Minister of Justice, Mr. Kontonis, bring this amendment in a very mysterious way and even gave it directly to a single-accident company? - Zachynthian businessman. The company is "NEWSPHONE HELLAS", which undertakes to do what the notaries have done so far. So this private company, the private company, comes, with the direct assignment given to it by Kontonis, and this company pilots the preparation of the programme on how the electronic auctions are to take place. We repeat that all this is done by the left-wing confrontation of today, which exists. This does not end on its own, because we see that the proposal made by Kontonis to the independent authority on this matter had been reactioned by the President-in-Office to this committee. So what is the government doing? Because there is a reaction from the committee responsible, Amendment No 1185/127, which stops this position. In essence, that is, it expels the man who refused this suggestion from Contony. No one has mentioned this and the SYRIZA-ANEL coup d'état sits here and sells us stories about democracy and anything else. That's what we hear here. So two scandals are being created. Firstly, they take the homes of our Greek fellow citizens for money that they do not have to pay to the banks, for money they do not in fact owe them and have paid them back many times with the Memorandums received by the Greek Governments from the international loan sharks and which our Greek fellow citizens have paid back many times and Contonis comes to do a given man's assignment to a particular company. Where there is a reaction from this legal authority and the gentleman is differentiated, they are going through an amendment to another draft law which eliminates this position, expels the gentleman. Here, then, is a justification for Kontonis' position on many issues as Minister of Justice, who, when he sees that there is any decision of judicial authorities, of a prosecutor, a judge who does not like it, can judge and enlighten it and does not respect the position in which he is as Minister of Justice, in which he should never go out publicly and comment on decisions, whether he likes them or not. All this in connection with each other - the public comments he makes and says that the decisions made for people who have been sentenced first to participate in terrorist organisations, the fact that he then says threateningly that we will change the composition after the decisions that we want, these direct assignments, the contacts he had with Kammenos on these issues - we see that it is not accidental and that SYRIZA is trying in a direct or indirect way to intimidate justice and to pass on his own positions and principles. So this amendment is coming, 1177/119, which takes the homes of Greek citizens, while yesterday we heard the interview of the Minister for Migration Policy, Muzala, which says that thirty thousand homes will be given to illegal immigrants in order to get in and stay in homes lost by Greek citizens because they do not have to pay them back. This is the Greek Government. That's what we're experiencing today. But, in part, you do well and you do it, because the Greek people's reaction outside is not what it should be. So take the homes of our Greek fellow citizens and put illegal immigrants. Not just that. It comes in the face of a thousand cardinals, this Minister, with the full coverage of course and with the agreement of all the other ministers and Prime Minister, and says that from now on we will give them money, cash. So give them homes. Give them cash. Pay them PPC. Pay them the water, the EKDAP and all of this while with the same bills you get the houses of the Greek citizens. We have to say that, in the way you legislate and in Article 3 in this bill, you are once again giving the terrorists a huge asylum, the para-state punks, who are plundering the universities of the country. In fact, you do nothing to them, because here you are telling features with this article that the police's own-order intervention is limited only in cases of crimes and crimes against life, i.e. in about 1/10 of the criminal code's offences. You're leaving out crimes, like criminals being treated, arson, more physical harm, kidnappings, illegal violence. These people, these criminals, should be arrested, and within forty - eight hours, go to the prosecutor and then pass selfish. So you come to cover them with these articles and with the specific bills, and you say that there must be a decision of the Rector's Council, which, because it is also composed of several people and it is not too flexible, will take time, and in essence we all know that it will never take such a decision. So this way, you legislate, you cover left terrorists and criminals. A few days ago, the President of the Hellenic Parliament, Mr. Voutsis, himself, along with the President and Minister for Citizen Protection, Mr. Toska, dared to bring these "blacks" - which is not "blacks", this is a lenient expression, these exarchates punks, who have been devastated by what you legislate - in the Greek Parliament to do whatever they want. Let the President of Parliament then dare say that they didn't do anything and that we had to kick them out. Didn't the kids do anything? Who are you? Who is the President of Parliament who can decide whether or not someone should be arrested? Where did he get that jurisdiction to do whatever he wants? With the agreement of the Minister for Civil Protection, Toska. We see in the case in the Minidia case a short time ago that there are dead innocent people, there are no arrests, there is a state of lawlessness. Illegal immigrants can come out and burn in illegal immigrants' centres. They can do whatever they want here, there's no arrest. In the end the damage is always paid by the Greek people, by the Greek public. So who gave the right? But Paraparapulus, as Minister of Justice at the time, was making laws and bills, with which all criminals for serious felonies are released after three, four years. We see the President of Parliament decide that the children have done nothing. The children who have done nothing of "Rubicon" are the same children who have entered with barbecues and hammers, they have broken jams, they have hit innocent people.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u410	Please, finish, finish, colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u411	I'm done, Mr. President. I'm sorry. But they circulate in Exarcheus, swinging guns in their hands and threatening anyone who has a different view. They are the same children who decide to make militia in Exarchia and to give the solution as they care. He dares to say every minister that these children don't even express the anarchist space. How do the ministers know what they are expressing and what they do not express? We say, then, that these children, these bums express precisely the anarchist space and that's what they've learned to do. You cover them and you'll be accountable for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u412	Mr. John Stephen has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u413	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I do not feel the need to defend any parliamentarians. But I feel the need to say that in this country the largest crimes and the most atrocities are currently committed by fascist criminal organisations. We are discussing the draft law which mainly concerns higher education and, like every time we talk in the Greek Parliament, there are positions, controversies and rare compositions of opinion. Of course, there is always a sterile opposition alliance from New Democracy, PASOK and Potami, which in this case also considers the bill as a whole darkening and backwards. It is not surprising that the alliance of the three, since in their view everything that the government is trying to put order or anything which prejudges a different logic and values from those of the market is backward, ideological and darkening. Let us see which provisions of the bill are such according to the Opposition. The university asylum, which was abolished in 2011 by the well-known Diamantopoulou law, is re-established. With the abolition of asylum, as you know, no conquests have been made, no incidents have been re-established in the university institutions, and no violations have occurred for so many years! Listen, with repressive practices, the problem is not solved in universities. Other practical pedagogical and, above all, collective procedures are needed to deal with these issues. Student participation in administrative bodies shall be restored. This participation, I confess, but even this is annoying by the opposition, since it does not fit their plans for the technical administrations of the institutions against any view that HEIs and TEIs are areas of democracy and equal participation, against the reality of America and Europe, which, however, invoke it whenever it suits them. There is a change in the election procedure for the Republican authorities. This, of course, strengthens the conflict and leaves the HEIs unreservedly. Of course they forget to tell us about the monolithic rectal patterns of the past and the institution councils, which have been devalued by the academic community. He classifies himself in the way he operates postgraduate studies. This is where we have the biggest reactions, because what the bill is trying to do is to lay rules in an inconsistent status of postgraduate and teachers' salaries, which in some cases represent 100% of the operating costs of postgraduate students. Finally, the Single Education and Research Area is promoted and the interconnection of HEIs and TEIs with regions to contribute to regional development. For such a bill, the chief of Officerial Response is coming to tell us that he will abolish it as soon as they become government and will see after "executionary evaluation" the final number of institutions that can survive in a world that changes very quickly. Truly, what will he say 'exhaustive evaluation' and how is it justified that the New Democracy will close institutions, so it also exerts absolute state intervention, while at the same time relinquishing us that we are limiting the autonomy and self-interest of the institutions? What is the consequence of the words and criticisms of counterpopulation? None. The answer, ladies and gentlemen, is that there is no consistency, because it is simply your only worthy code that is to be found at all costs in the confiscation of the government's work, that of all sacrifices of opposition, without any substance and content necessarily being present. Faithful to the dogma of the blind opposition, you complain to us that during the two years we have not been able to do what you have built all the previous years. Your scandals, corruption phenomena, the dissolution of the health system, the dissolution of education, the collapse of banks, the dissolution of labour relations are some of the ones that PASOK and New Democracy, when separately and when together, have managed to bring into this country. While you are responsible for all this and for much more, you are not in a position to condemn the extreme racist reason that has recently been evoked by your favorite children, businessmen - schoolgirls. In the indisputable announcement of the School Association - it is an honor to the Ministry of Education and Mr Gavroglou who returned it as unacceptable - the Government and the Minister of Education for 'Soviet-style facilities' is invoked. They are the ones who refuse to register pupils with special educational needs in their schools. I will not deal with the point where anything that is not pleasurable in shares of established interests becomes'soviet-type meditation'. I will dwell on this point where the introduction of children with disabilities is called 'different demonstration of humanity'. That's exactly how they wrote. That was made clear by teachers! If for schoolchildren the introduction of children with special educational needs is only a demonstration of humanism, then they have not taken the role of education and education. The role of education is not to tag, rule out, drag red lines. The role of education is to unite, cultivate the spirit of openness and creativity, to discipline people ready to build their future. I wanted to know who's giving the line, the schoolmasters in the New Democracy or the New Democracy to the schoolmasters? Finally, we go to the subject of conduct, which has really come to my attention. I will only quote the view of a different teacher of education, according to which a person cannot be stigmatized for a lifetime for something he has done in his teen years. Voridis must have been in his head. The choice of such a punishment measure actually proves the failure of the school. When you cannot pass on the basic values to your students and resort to punishment, then you transfer your own incapacity to the children. We abolished the conduct of the qualifications. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just give me a minute, please. To conclude, I would like to refer to the tabling of an amendment to this draft law, which I consider to be very important. It is indicative of how the present government treats the education staff of the country's primary and secondary education. We use the Physical Education Teachers, who may not complete their hours, so that people do not stay in the air, as teachers say, in unions and state associations alone, supervised by the General Secretariat of Sports, on the basis of the maximum educational benefit of students. Ladies and gentlemen, just before the day, I would remind you that today is 31 July. On 31 July, my dear colleague, Mr Deli, Mr Mitsotakis, as Minister of Administrative Reform, Mr Arvanitopoulos and Mr Kedicoglou - if I am not cheated - fired about two thousand two hundred teachers of the Lyons Technical Professionals. It was so grand that it was planned for the next few years that they thought they were useless. Of course, the next day, Mr Arvantopoulos was inaugurating private educational schools with the same skills and the same areas as those which have been dismantled.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u414	Mr. Stephoe, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u415	I'll be out in half a second. I'm sorry, Mr. President. I would like to tell you that so far they have enrolled to attend the professional high school in the country, seventy-seven thousand Greek girls. So this is the educational policy of PASOK and of the New Democracy. So that was their design. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u416	Mr Vassilis Kegeroglu has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u417	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am starting with the amendment to the Institute of Space and Earth-based Astrophysics. I agree with his establishment, but I have a claim. It's gonna change abbreviation. It is not possible, Minister, to call itself ICEA, with the initials of the paramilitary and pro-transitional organization with the known activity in the place. There's another abbreviation that can come in. I support the amendment on JHA and their funding. I am opposed to the amendment on notaries and associations of notaries. I also have the document here of all the appeals clubs that are against. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would ask Mr. Nearly to come to the Chamber to speak to us, to explain. This had to be done before Mr Gavroglou accepted an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u418	I am sorry, but this amendment has not been accepted, because we expect Mr Contonis to present it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u419	Very good. So he should come and talk to us and explain it to us. Finally, we shall go to the Shipyards amendment. Hey, guys! What happened? Is there a new complication for the submarines? What have you been saying for so long? What are these things? Ladies and gentlemen, the major changes, the radical areas in which PASOK has made progress in all the institutions and areas of transformation, are the work of our prolongation that has led the country and society to considerable progress, which everyone today calls for as a starting point. In particular, for education and research, progressive changes in the 1980s have put their stamps on science for many years, but also on social and economic progress for two generations, which have brought the citizen, the student, the student close to the educational system, without barriers and, of course, without privileges for the few who have up until then. However, systems, particularly educational systems, cannot remain static. They need constant reform and push forward, of course through a political follow-up, but not only to synchronise them with developments, but also to be much ahead of them. In 2011, with its legacy of experience, the negative records, the new needs that were created, the developments in Europe, the prospects for tomorrow and the future, PASOK continued to introduce Law 4009, after an exhausting dialogue of an entire year conducted by the Ministry of Education under Mrs Diamantopoulou. Then a large majority was achieved to which SYRIZA was not counted, neither then nor today can it understand the developments and needs of society. The reactive and conservative attitude of the New Democracy in 1982, when it defended the anachronist university and its headquarters and family rulers, is so reactive, it is the conservative counter-reformation the SYRIZA ANEL Government is trying today, which leads to the introversion, doctrinal isolation, administrative paganization, with a deferred invoicing of some of the 1982 provisions. You know, the '80 models, any human creation, can't meet 2020 needs. The best and most beautiful car of the day today is nothing but an antique. The antiques seem to us everything you say to us, Minister, in a degree of time. Where were you in 1982 and in what respect were you? Let us take student participation in the institutions, elections and decisions as an example. It was then established as a genuinely progressive option that contributed to the change of correlations, the breakage of bulkheads and the change of attitudes. But, over the years student participation has been co-administered, the administration has been co-administered, there has been no conciliation, which the Prime Minister has been saying wrongly, but a transaction. The trade between representatives was of course a benefit to the same, but blackmail for students, who were the object of the exploitation. This negative development went hand-in-hand with the degeneration of the student movement and full integration into the establishment of the allegedly, from a point of view, their representatives, of course, with almost all of the factions, who - listen - were not responsible for consulting the National Student Association of Greece, the FIFG, had a dominant role in the administration of universities and TEI. That was a negative development, and today we need to see what can be a progressive proposal for the role of students. We say 'yes' to a modern form of student participation, to all matters directly related to them and, of course, to all the issues of universities and higher education. 'Yes' to all possibilities for documenting their proposals and for the free deposit of their ideas. 'Yes' in claiming their rights for today and tomorrow. 'No', however, in the porn that you are keeping them, the so-called 15% participation, which is nothing but clandestine in a new co-management, in a new strand, a new greenhouse of thermonuclear fusion. "No" to caging students in this new system of dependency and integration into the closed and immovable power systems to be formed. It's for sure from now on. We must prevent these phenomena from appearing more widely. Today's students, ladies and gentlemen, are tomorrow's orders of this place. The greatest damage to our place and to them is to suck up to the phenomena of transaction and grey behavior. SYRIZA's gentlemen, in 1982 some people were, at least in silence, with progressive changes. Most of you, however, proved to be fearful. In 2011 you were backwards, always behind developments. Today, you are legislating on the basis of your rulership. You do not create institutions more or less headed by the state, as I have heard many people who have told you statemen, as they would do in a Western-style state-run policy. You transfer powers and powers from the autonomous universities to the Minister. You identify the government with the state. You are state-of-the-art state-of-the-art "Muddur" press in simple words, because you think you will always be in power. You are dismantling the selfishness of universities with Mr.Gavroglou, the Minister, to give himself the role of the ultra-procedure. He thinks he's going to be a Minister of Education. Ladies and gentlemen, the country needs public, liberated universities and TEI forces, which will be the driving force for growth and progress. Your bill, gentlemen of SYRIZA, is clearly contrary to this need, which is why it is being voted against. In addition to positions and proposals which he has formulated and tabled, the Democratic Partnership has a comprehensive plan for a modern education for tomorrow's needs with a look at the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u420	Independent MEP George - Dimitrios Karras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u421	Mr President, the debate on education is always interesting and important. The draft law currently being proposed by the government, particularly on the point of higher education, gives me strong concerns, because, in a number of its provisions, it will confuse the extent of supervision provided for by the Constitution on fully self-governed Higher Education Institutions in relation to this real self-government. We can see, therefore, that a number of provisions are now in place for the Ministry of Higher Education to be embraced. What does that mean? It means that at some point these provisions should be interpreted if it is simple supervision, as required by the Constitution, or exceeding supervision, and now has intervention in the self-employed. It is a difficult issue, which I believe or fear, if you will, that it will create a series of conflicts in future that will prevent this legislation from working, which, in any case, will have functional problems directly with its implementation, because it will bring back to some outdated points, which in many cases have lost their character. Of course, the same legislation contains other provisions. I shall therefore give an example. I shall turn to the speech by Mr Fotakis, who referred to the issues of the specific research accounts. He did an analysis, which I consider to be interesting, first of all. But from now on, he told us that he would bring back the Greek young people who have necessarily left have sought better luck abroad and especially high-level scientists. It also provided evidence that a number of them sought to join higher education as a researcher or as a professor of any grade. However, the proportion of the number of young people who have left the country, who have to, in relation to the minimum positions which may be created by the research accounts or if they open up certain posts in the universities, is negligible. I expected to hear it, and I have not yet heard it from the government, by any analysis, from any minister, from any programme with which, even if the government does not support, the private initiative, the return of young scientists, young people who have gone through economic growth, which is also the one that will create jobs that are well paid and stable. So it is not enough for these arrangements that we are discussing today, at least, to overthrow the so-called Brain drain in the Greek modern language. The same legislation has been distorted in many respects by tabling unrelated amendments. I never imagined that the Ministry of Education in a critical piece of legislation would pass the debate on amendments from non-governmental ministries, other interested parties, so that the legislation on which we are discussing its value is lost. I am listening to my colleagues and all of them - very much - are talking about amendments more than about the crucial issues of education. This compels me to comment and, if you like, ladies and gentlemen, to the Ministry of Education's tactics. Why am I saying that? It is no longer a serious matter for the government, and I must say that the Ministry of Education accepts it as well. Last Thursday we voted in Parliament the law amending Law No 1069/1980 on municipal water and sewerage operations. Today, I see, there's an amendment from the Ministry of the Interior, and what does it say? That JHA will be financed through public investment. Why is that? Couldn't be the other day? Did it have to be today and eat us time and deal with it and not education? Another amendment: the Minister for Culture has come and told us that it is urgent to legislate to extend the term of office of members of the Board of Directors of the Acropolis Museum. Fifteen days ago he brought a bill on collective and related rights. Put it over there, go to good, see how you legislate. Did he have to come to us today, too? I shall therefore make a comment. There is a political debate about the parallel currency, the parallel payments, and today what do we see? Continuation of parallel legislation. It does not, however, contribute to the promotion of education. It is the most important issue for education to create the prerequisites of a democratic civil society. I do not see that being able to do so under the present circumstances. I'll get an example. It says the government's suggestion side of the bill: 'We are bringing in a democratic bill, which is clearly part of a philosophy of the Left'. It says the Qualified Opposition that this is counter-reforming its own views. So let us find the middle section so that there can be real education. I shall be brief on two points, and I shall end, Mr President. First of all, the issue of asylum is unclear. Something I didn't hear in this Chamber is that there are complaints of drug trafficking inside the campus enclosures. How do you deal with this thing? Is it supposed to be a felony? Who's gonna call? Who's going to be in charge? It is a very important matter. My last comment is the well-known subject that has been mentioned many times in relation to the professional rights of the technological training of engineers, which today also change the name. They speak of qualifications, that they will be qualified through a Commission appointed by the Minister of Education to issue the Presidential Decree. I will only recall at this point that the concept of professional rights for graduates of technology is guaranteed by the Constitution, by Article 16. He says: 'The Presidential Decree that will be issued also defines professional rights'. So look to see that this provision, which you are trying to do for a next thirty-five years, as has happened in the past by Law No 1404/1983, which has not been defined by a large number of graduates, is no longer a matter for you to raise such a matter, and you will again be in the Council of State by apologies. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u422	Mr. George Diaras has the floor from SYRIZA, who is the last speaker for tonight.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u423	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, those of us Members of Parliament were born poor, we know firsthand what injustice means, what a poor man he wants to study. Previously, the poor-working student used to work in a factory or building, usually while studying. Now, today's poor student works waiter or delivery. They've changed the data. The poor student thirsty about science feels what's going to say injustice and social inequality. I understand the JRC's position on class injustice. What Thanasis Paphilis said is true. He knows them well, because he was working on the building to finish the law. Therefore, as long as there are very poor, there is indeed no equal right to education. There is now the so-called 'free education'. Free university yes, but not free roofing, free electricity, communal, clothing, etc. Many times the poor student must live and support the poor family, little brothers, sick parents, etc. This is society, that's the situation. Each party takes a position according to its ideology. To speak clearly and honestly. There are two places: one to the right, which says that anyone who has financial means can have instruction, have the opportunity to go to foreign universities, do postgraduate and the poor in his fate. The other political position says that all young people should have equal opportunities in education, poor and rich. Things are improving, but we are far from equality in the right to education. There are excellent minds and students with zeal that they can't study today. So what can today's left government supported by ANELs, but also by the Efologist Greens from whom I come? The government is ruling in the context of neoliberal capitalism, in a country that is highly indebted, with many commitments and obligations. This government, in these circumstances, must take steps in a concrete direction and objectives. Firstly, the establishment of a sustainable economy with an overall project in which education and, in particular, higher education will have an important role. Secondly, a higher education in which the poorest student who wants to study can participate, which will be provided not only with free university, but also with the necessary financial resources. Thirdly, not impoverished students, not people sleeping on the streets and living with charity. Our education is a fundamental right for all. It's not a merchandise that some people want, and we don't accept being a merchandise. Education is a basic value. It's selfish. In addition to general education, however, education is also of a useful, practicable nature. With science and technology, it supports the production of goods and social services. Higher education therefore has an important role to play in the country's productive reconstruction. The healthy and sustainable economy in a fair society feeds up education and culture. In view of the above, I believe that it is also the right direction to intervene in the operation of postgraduate programmes, particularly in the question of teachers' tuition and salaries. The bill does not, however, describe the direction in which higher education will be organised in spatial and functional terms. The logic of decentralisation must govern spatial reorganisation. Changes to be made with measure and wisdom. I'll bring you as an example the area where I come from, I'm from, Ioannina. He had a college in Agrini and TEI in Messolongi. The TEI in Mesolonghi has large areas and very large infrastructures. But now he's only got two schools and he's down. So the schools that exist to combine, collide to consolidate and strengthen even more. In the changes, therefore, we must take serious account of the multi-faceted interactions of cities, the economy and schools, the role of schools in the development of the real economy - and I do not, of course, think of cafeterias as a development of the economy. After a decade of continuous downgrading of higher education, there is a need for a substantial restructuring of higher education by mergers between departments in the same or neighbouring HEIs. In this context, I think it is right to address the question of TEIs that runs by converting them to universities and abolishing the Greek peculiarity of the existence of two different areas of higher education. I believe that in the draft law the relationship between university and the production reconstruction plan is somewhat weak and we should strengthen it with appropriate initiatives. Proposals: To focus on linking with productive reconstruction and the new sustainable model, to support technological parks and to cooperate with chambers and local administration, to strengthen green skills and those related to the agricultural sector, to modernise and support agricultural production and to give special weight to the agricultural parts of organic farming and livestock production and the livestock production divisions. The primary sector needs government support and reinforcement of existing agricultural institutions. Asylum should be an asylum for the circulation of ideas, not aesthetic and functional degradation. It is not right that the black walls of the schools and the decayal image be connected to the Left. Finally, I would like to say that a little more competitive education or a little more research and technology will not save the planet and societies that are falling apart. We need holistic knowledge and quality education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u424	Last speaker is the independent MP, Mr Theodora Megalonikou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u425	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we are not here now - first of all we recognise that the bill we are debating today concerns higher education and does not come under urgent procedure. This is something unprecedented, because in the last few years we have become accustomed to coming in as an emergency. However, the parliamentary procedure only lasted a few days. In the committees it was debated very quickly, but there was also a rain from amendments which were irrelevant to the issue of other ministries and which we did not even have time to see. We were not interested in either the time or the procedure followed. The question was, obviously, the kind of education we wanted to investigate, how we will ultimately be able to control it and what we will pursue with it. Thus, in a truly civilised country of the Western world, we see that our confrontation is purely party. The parties, in other words, are trying to have controversy to show their voters who will have the greatest controversy. The level of a country's culture is seen by how stable its educational system is. Here we see our educational system being completely transient. Each government aims to change its educational system by wanting to show that it will do something more innovative. Regardless of whether the previous government had done something right, the next one wanted to tear it down and want to show that it would do something better. This is something that I find totally unjustified. So, we can't keep anything the previous guy has done right? We want to tear it down to show that we're going to make something better. Can't anyone keep something he thinks is right? As long as I've been watching the governments, I see no one has kept anything, no matter where it comes from, even if it's right. I would also like to point out that there has been no consultation with the institutions. The agencies went through very quickly and could not have been a real dialogue through which we could hear their intentions and objections. It was a very superficial dialogue. That is why the prefectures of the Hellenic University announced that they would stop postgraduate studies. Because, as your intentions have been presented to them, they have seen that they will not take the money they want and that postgraduate staff cannot be paid, as they should. That is why they said they would abolish the programmes. Also, the Ministry's initiative was not what it should have been. There should have been a programming process whereby there could be a free school for a number of students who do not have to pay. It should also have been a proper rationalisation of costs, an appropriate consultation and a real consultation with university teachers and not 'I am making a decision and that is what has to be done'. This way of dealing with the academics was not the right way to do it. And the teacher's reaction was normal. Because you didn't come to a real deal. That's why the academic world got up. The reaction could have been avoided if there was more discussion in the bill. I would now like to refer to the provision on academic asylum. I see that academic asylum is evolving into a regression. In other words, the prosecution authorities will not be able to carry out their work, because you do not separate what will be the felony and what will be the fault. How will these offences stand out? How can the principle tell what the crime is and what is the felony? Should someone's physical integrity be at risk? Somebody with a knife has to be hit so we can say what the felony is and what is the wound? When others get in to destroy the university's property, will we wonder if it's a felony or if it's a felony? Who's gonna determine that? I cannot understand how we will decide what the felony is and what the flood is. Also, Minister, I would like to refer to the subject of students. Students must have a say, but in some respects. Students can't decide on matters that don't concern them. They may not take part in various matters relating exclusively to teachers. They can't take part in everything. Students may take part in what they are concerned with. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President, please. I come to the issue of people with disabilities. We must be particularly sensitive to people with disabilities because they are struggling to overcome their disability. Parents and children must be given special treatment, and we must actually treat them completely differently, as they are in great need. Also, the amendment under number 1176 and a special 118 relates to the temporary accommodation of refugees and migrants. In particular, it is an amendment which deals with various data on the urban conditions governing temporary structures and on respect for the environment. Two years have elapsed since then and the problems of hosting migrants and refugees have not been overcome. Decisions should be taken on how to host and how to finalise where to stay and how to settle these people. Two years have elapsed and immigrants are still coming. You must make some systematic decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u426	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S2-commons.u427	The meeting for Tuesday, August 1, 2017, at 10 a.m., on the subject of the House's work: legislative work, continued discussion and vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: "Organization and functioning of higher education, regulations on research and other provisions".
