ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 3-8-2017, PHSEN's minutes were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau, on Thursday 3 August 2017, with regard to the vote on the whole draft law: ‘Reform of the Primary Health Care, urgent arrangements for the responsibility of the Ministry of Health and other provisions’.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information: "Electronic system for the allocation of television advertising time, amendment of Law 3548/2007, establishment of a register of regional and local types, special marking of a bar code in printed editions, creation of an institutional framework for strengthening the production of audiovisual works in Greece and other provisions". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 31 July 2017 to discuss the draft law at two meetings, one on principle, articles and amendments. Before we go into an incident, for the two meetings, do we agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u2	So the House unanimously agreed. Well, that's what we decided.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u3	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u4	For the two meetings?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u5	No, on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u6	That's all. Do you object to the two meetings?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u7	There's no objection.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u8	There's no objection. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u9	Mr President, majority Members may often get excited by my position or by my intent to intervene, but no one can blame me for the reproach that I am a fugitive and I want to avoid parliamentary work. But Mr Kegeroglu, at the Conference of Presidents, where the decision was taken for this week, with these draft laws, objected to. And he came to verify his own predictions, because with two bills - one close to the hundred articles and the other over a hundred articles - two Ministries in the past few days it was logical that we should not be able to keep up with the timetables. At the moment, Mr President, we are being verified as a Democratic Compact, because a draft law is coming, thirdly, this week, to end it by noon tomorrow at the two meetings, which you are saying at the same time, eight ministerial amendments are coming, one of which is now, overthrowing the provisions of another law, which concerns an independent authority, which has not been discussed. Four amendments are coming from the Ministry of Trade Shipping and one from the Ministry of Justice. Well, aren't you embarrassed? And you, Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u10	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u11	No, I'm not done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u12	The point of order, Mr Loverdo, according to the Rules of Procedure, you know that it has a minute. I haven't even put time on you. So I think the 'I'm not done' is because I play a role here too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u13	I'm asking you for twenty more seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u14	You've got it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u15	In addressing the Minister, with this draft law and these amendments, I ask: What would happen if the House still operated two days to end? What would happen to him? Hasn't he been full of judiciary and political vaginas? He brought a draft law on the PSE and on the permits. It's all done. He brought orders...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u16	That's not a process, Mr. Loverdo. It's a substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u17	I am referring to a point of order. It brings a draft law, withdraws the basic arrangements that have been made in the Committee on the Advertising Platform, and now brings us other amendments. He must be ashamed! He's Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u18	Your disagreement has been recorded. The Minister will answer when he takes the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u19	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u20	You don't have to do it now, Minister. Let's start the bill. For the order, I mention - do not have any change and there has been no paper - that Parliamentary representatives are Ms Vaki, Mr Javaras, Mr Loverdos, Mrs Zaroulia, Mr Karathanasopoulos, Mr Lazaridis, Mr Megalomustakas and Mr Mavrotas. I see they're all in the Chamber. There are also the rapporteurs and the special speakers, as they have been given by the parties. Is there any change in Golden Dawn?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u21	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u22	So from the Golden Dawn, it's Mr. Shahinides. It's not a matter. So we start with the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Ioannis Sarakiotis, with 15 minutes. The listing of speakers begins now and the system will be closed once the new Republic's rapporteur Mrs Asmakopoulou comes down from the Step. Please open the electronic system.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u23	You said 15 minutes, Mr President. We can narrow it down.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u24	I am obliged to comply with the Rules of Procedure. I wish my colleagues would not make use of it. Mr. Sarakiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u25	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u26	You have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u27	For just a minute, if you also agree, in order to avoid tensions and increase the degree of mutual understanding in here, I would like to take the floor now, to make a position, to explain the legislative improvements that have been made, so that they can be taken into account by the rapporteurs as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u28	I will ask the parliamentary representatives, but it is customary to do so. You obviously think that's how you'll help have the whole plan in front of them. Do you agree that the Minister should precede the parliamentary representatives?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u29	We agree on the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u30	For the amendments, Mr Loverdo, do not worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u31	That's what I said. In order for there to be the whole plan to be available to the rapporteurs too. So you want to talk about the bill as well?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u32	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u33	So you have eighteen minutes, because you will talk about both the amendments and the legislative improvements. I'll give you time. I'll put you 20 minutes in a relative comfort.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u34	Mr President, it is a good thing that this is going to happen. It'll help somehow. Will the position of the Parliamentary Representatives go after the Minister, or will the rapporteurs go after that? How are you gonna do it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u35	The rapporteurs will go and immediately after the Members of Parliament and their fellow Members, who will be registered, if the time is not right tonight, will start tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u36	Is a Member of Parliament and a Member of Parliament going to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u37	I say that we must start with the two rapporteurs and the six speakers, and then we can do what you say, depending on how many have been registered. It can be, for example, every three.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u38	Mr President, the order in which the parliamentary representatives will speak will be determined by us. The parliamentary class wants the representatives of the parties to respond to the Minister and dialogue to take place. Since this process is now changing - and that is how it is done - the rapporteurs will go, we will determine when we are going to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u39	The President-in-Office is obliged to ask whether you want the parliamentary order to be kept. If you two now agree not to hold the formality, that is to say speak to the Members. Vakis, Javaras, Loverdos, etc. And to be another order, the Bureau has no reason for not accepting it. Minister, you have the floor for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u40	Mr President, what time will the meeting last?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u41	We'll see, depending on the records.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u42	But we must now decide whether it will go in a parliamentary order.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u43	Mrs Zaroulia, you didn't hear what I said. I said that after the speakers, I will ask what the Parliamentary Representatives want: do they want in turn, or will you agree with each other? Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. I should also like to thank the Members and Mr Sarakiotis, who almost had gone up to the Step when my request was accepted to take the floor now, really to dismantle the debate. Because I think that all the wings will understand that such tensions do not need and Mr. Loverdes will understand that...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u45	We said to disinfect the climate, not congested.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u46	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u47	Is it possible to behave like this?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u48	Mr. Loverdo, anyway, nothing is written in the Minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u49	What can I tell you? You don't expect to hear it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u50	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u51	The expression is deleted. You agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u52	All right, let the expression be deleted. But we younger parliamentarians have learned to do much less time, more patience. Don't be so easy on extreme criticism, Mr. Loverdos. He'll be here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u53	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u54	Don't make personal reports, Minister. Through the President, whatever you want. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u55	Mr President, Members should therefore not be so easy to criticise, especially when they choose to do so with very high tones and extremes and to talk about 'rules'. It is good to hear what has happened and what is the essence of legislative improvements, which have come at the moment and to promote dialogue. If there is a proposal and if there are objections, because we put them in time and there is another sitting tomorrow, we are here to discuss them. Alas. I think, in fact, that in the last few days, as long as we are discussing the press issues, which are coming to regulate this bill, ladies and gentlemen, there has been a very serious excess. For it seems that the consensus which is being formed is far beyond the government's majority. This also concerns market players, but also parties, which obviously realise that it is time to move to some regulation of the information landscape, a landscape that was unregulated on the Internet, that was regulable in newspapers too, that was unregulated on television stations as well. I think and I think it's all our goal to release creative forces to the place. Because serious investment, which can be made in this area and the dynamic development of the audiovisual sector, requires precisely a process of regulation, which is, of course, also the licensing process, but also the net economic relations between market players. These problems really come to solve this bill. It has been a very extensive consultation. This extensive consultation with both interested parties and between the parties and with the competent independent authorities has produced some changes, which we are currently bringing before the National Representation. We had to, I think, go to the new era, close some loose ends with the past. I am obviously talking about the situations of immunity, opacity, preferences of a few and choices, which was the norm, unfortunately. So, through regulation of the distorted regime and the development of new opportunities, we can achieve this objective. In simple terms, regulation and development can only be a priority. Firstly, we are putting order on the market and selling television advertising time, with the operation of an electronic system, whose usefulness was accepted even by those who originally had doubts. Extreme criticisms have been heard here, and some, in fact, did not expect them to read in detail nor to see whether the government has been given consent. And we're going to a regulation which makes trade compulsory on the platform without having to be the tender procedure. Don't laugh, Mr. Papatheodorou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u56	But it's totally funny.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u57	Yes, sir. With your health. So, here we have very important steps which have been taken and I think that we should also recognise this, because, as far as I understand it, there is no disagreement on the existence of grey zones and phenomena, which should not exist in the predominant situation, there is no one. They recognize, in other words, everyone that there was to be some intervention and that is, I think, the first and most serious attempt, to which we must all consent. We are also putting order in the certification of newspaper traffic with the barcode system. Who disagrees with that? Who and why would he disagree with that? Why should there be no electronic system, which can attest to the release of newspapers? Why should the reader open the newspapers and just read release estimates from the agencies? In fact, I expect to hear because I did not hear any serious argument during the debate on the committees, contrary to this initiative. And not only this, but until the full development of the linear code system and its mandatory scanning, the agencies are obliged to send us the cleared releases. These releases have a delay in time, because they will concern the release of newspapers for forty days before that date, but I think it is a first step quite operating for the interim stage. In fact, I would like to see all Parliament's wings voted in favour here. We are putting order in the form of a register in the regional press. It has been a very creative debate at the first meeting and at the second meeting of the committees and - as I know - a consultation between Members of all the wings during the days that have passed and we are bringing a legislative improvement, which we also hope will be a wider area of consensus, on the criteria and conditions for joining the Regional Press Register. We are, of course, putting order and, above all, motivating the production of audiovisual works in our country. This is a regulation which was missing from the country, a regulation that exists in neighbouring countries, but also in other advanced countries of Western Europe and, of course, in the United States. Our country has great advantages in terms of both sunshine and terrain and can have the administrative capacity and investment incentives to attract investments in audiovisual production. Apart from the above, I would like to refer to some of the amendments tabled by the National Broadcasting Council, and I therefore said that we should not go ahead with them. I will submit to the minutes the letter from the National Broadcasting Council which calls for legislative improvements which will make the competitive process more operational. [[At this point, Minister Nikolaos Papapas presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] Should we refuse them? Anyone suggesting that? Does anyone have...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u58	You should have brought them a week ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u59	But that's why I said we have to wait and deal with things more cool unless the ultimate purpose is to create impressions. So, not only are we not ashamed, but we are also proud that these improvements are coming here, in cooperation, in consultation and with the agreement of the National Broadcasting Council, which has surprised us all, other positive and other negative, I have to say. You will allow me to say this: because the speech was too strict in its criticism, in the previous period, to be very brave when we have to give the praise, because this connection of the National Broadcasting Council within eight months has done a lot more than the independent authority has done since 2002, which has been elected for the last time by the political system for the last time, because the independent authority has taken a decision on the number of licences and, of course, has taken a decision that protects the public interest in a starting price, which will ensure at least 245 million, as we have guaranteed last summer's competition, which was the first and only attempt to assess the rare resource, which is called spectrum, which is called television frequencies. So that is the truth, and I say that, in particular on the basis of these legislative improvements, the time-limit for television stations to comply with the obligations of a programme of technology equipment, of building infrastructure and of employment of staff is being transferred and harmonised in order to facilitate the participation of others in the tendering procedure. I note, of course, that at this point the number of four hundred workers remains at all. Also, for the control of'subjects' - and this is a regulation that shields the process - in the proclamation of successful tenderers, the assistance of the Anti-Counterfeiting Authority from criminal activities is established and this is a provision which I think needs to be voted on by the opposition parties and that will be a very good message. I think if we vote in favour of it, no one will be ashamed. The payment of the price shall also be fixed at 10 annual equal instalments. Shareholders of the Board of Directors, etc., shall be prohibited. TV stations in enterprises engaged in teleshopping. One understands the usefulness of this regulation because it cannot be the same person or legal person to sell and buy television time. To strengthen the National Broadcasting Council, a small part of the price of licences is provided for, to be used for its own operation. On this point I think we should say that the cooperation and agreement of the National Broadcasting Council for these legislative improvements leaves no room for micro-policy and, above all, leaves no room for impression. This isn't about it. I think it is a very important step, which shields the licensing procedure before which we are, a step which, in their attitude, all the political parties - and I would also say to you last year's proceedings, explains to the Greek people that the greatest issue, which concerns them, was the role of the National Broadcasting Council - these arrangements to vote on them all, one by one. These regulations must be voted for, especially by those who had raised the role of the National Broadcasting Council as a matter of urgency during last year's competition. I have to say here - and I have to say this openly - without half-writing and second-hand words, that what some people say is not paying, is not the case. Since the beginning of our own governance, although we did not have the legal tools to force television stations to pay for a licence - the whole political and legal system in Greece has been afflicted in the process of licensing and you understand very well what I mean - we charged the advertising tax and the frequency fee, so that, from the beginning of 2015, television stations have paid EUR 90 million. If you put that amount in proportion to the price of permits, you will understand that it is not well understood. It is a significant amount, which we had to collect and which was unexplained, while it was voted as such, were not charged and were not collected by the previous governments. We will also review the overall tax regime for television stations along the way to licensing. Because our objective is to regulate, sustain and secure employment. I think that we are very close to developments, which will also deserve our insistence on this process being completed. Another amendment allows ERT and Athenian and Macedonian News Agency journalists to work as correspondents abroad to inform these agencies of the news of a foreign country without having to cooperate with external journalists covering this country. It also provides for the setting-up of a three-member ERT3 Management Committee with a two-year term, set up by a decision of the Board of Directors of the ERT and submitting proposals to it for the regulation of matters relating to administration, management, budget, the structure of the competence of the services, its bodies, and television, radio and other activities at regional, national and international levels. In this way, ERT3 is best operational at organisational and administrative level. Ladies and gentlemen, the above-mentioned arrangements are pillars of the overall reform in the press. These are steps which have brought us closer to transparency, legality, to what society has been asking for for decades. At this point, I am also given the opportunity to refer to the amendment tabled by the JRC and it was accepted in its first part by our Ministry because it was the Ministry in which the bill was being discussed, but also the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, which is the responsible Ministry in substance, which stipulates that the substantial delay in the payment of wages paid by the employer, regardless of the reason for the delay, is regarded as a unilateral change in working conditions. I think that this really can help hired work to reclaim its rights more effectively, because the phenomenon of wage delays has taken too much worrying proportions. Let me refer to the end...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u60	So you're accepting it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u61	Yeah, in the first place. That's what I said. It was accepted immediately, in the first place and by our Ministry...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u62	What does "reasonable delay" mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u63	You're right here, Mr. Buquoir. And we want to see whether we are making some legislative improvement, which will make much more concrete the time, which will judge that we have a breach of the contract and a adverse change in the contract of employment. So let me now refer to some changes concerning the General Secretariat for Telecommunications and Posts and the National Committee for Telecommunications and Posts. The necessary amendments are proposed in the relevant L.3783/2009 to ensure that electronic communications service providers comply in a more operational manner and in a digitised form with each subscriber’s identity data. A ceiling is also specified for active power-driven connections per provider. Right now, there's no limit to how many car drivers can...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u64	Minister, please indicate the general number of the amendment. Now that I am not mistaken, it is the general number 1223.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u65	I'm afraid I don't have it anywhere handy with me, Mr. President. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u66	Yes, the general number 1223 is. I say this, so that Members understand what an amendment you are talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u67	This is therefore an amendment, which sets a ceiling on the active card-red connections that each holder can have. You realize what problem we are going to solve with this intervention, because there were people who activated too many carotids, who were then transferred to third parties, without any possibility from the state being able to have the data of those who actually use these phones. And of course, it is proposed to amend the mandatory retention time of identification data for drivers, from one year to three years. So we are seeking to make the identification process effective and, of course, there are other safety issues which we must take very seriously. There is an amendment in relation to the Postal Code, which is a national numerical resource and therefore it is absolutely necessary to add a provision to Law 4053/2012 for the better management and exploitation by the State, with the aim of speeding up the movement of mail and achieving the quality of the postal service for the benefit of all residents of the territory. It is also appropriate to amend the provisions of Law 4070/2012 so that the competences of the National Telecommunications and Post Committee, with regard to the issues of electronic signature and their stakeholders, are redefined and determined, in accordance with the powers of the Supervisory Body provided for in the relevant European Regulation under No 910/2014. In the same context, it is necessary to replace the words ‘electro-signatures’ with ‘confidentiality services’. It is necessary to replace them, in order for the National Telecommunications and Post Committee, as a supervising authority of trust services, to be able to impose penalties in the event of infringement of the legislation. In view of the increased responsibilities of the Executive Board of the EMCDDA staff, the participation of a Head of Management of the EMCDDA in the Staff Board is necessary in order for the Board to have a clearer and more direct knowledge of the staff work generated. Subsequently, it is proposed to add a provision in order to ensure that mobile communications networks have the necessary functionality, with no costs for informing citizens, in cases of emergency. In other words, if there is an earthquake, the public can be informed, and at that time there are no matters of price reward, pay etc. The regulation on the mediation procedure helps to reach agreement more quickly and reduce the number of requests for dispute settlement to the national dispute resolution body, which is, of course, the National Telecommunications Committee. Finally, individual legislative improvements to the entire bill concern drafting and rationalization, while the comments of the Parliament's Scientific Office were accepted. I would also like to say this before I close.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u68	Do you have any legislative improvements ready?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u69	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u70	Good. When you get off the Step, give the Minutes to be distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u71	Did you say anything about the management of satellite wheels?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u72	No, I didn't tell you anything. I missed it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u73	Could you report, just so we know?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u74	Let me take some time to talk about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u75	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u76	I would like to make one final point. The Chief of Officer Antipopulation, apparently seeking to strengthen his opposition, presented hundred and fifty - nine amendments, which were allegedly tabled in the last two months. This is a claim, which is not accurate. We do not know, obviously, who directed him and who recommended that him say that, but I think we should inform him that, from the hundred and fifty-nine amendments which he tabled and in the Minutes, the eighty-fifths were ministerial in eleven bills, that is, on average, in every draft law. The remaining seventy-four are parliamentary amendments by all the parties and Members of the New Democracy and PASOK. So I don't think lies should be used to create impressions. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is time to go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u77	And that's what you're closing up with, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u78	Yes, I'm closing, Mr. President. I believe that this bill makes very important steps in all areas of the press and information, and I call on you to go beyond separating lines and to give a signal of broader determination of the state to regulate the information field that has been so troubled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u79	I address the parliamentary representatives only if there is unanimity, the request by Mr Santorini will be accepted. Otherwise he will wait and talk about his amendments after Mr Psariano. These are four amendments by the Ministry of Shipping. If unanimously - I repeat - the Parliamentary Representatives agree for seven minutes to present the four amendments, that is now, it has good. If you do not accept it, we shall start with the rapporteur and then the last speaker will have the floor. Mr. Loverdo, do you copy?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u80	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u81	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, do you copy?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u82	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u83	Mrs. Zaroulia, do you copy?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u84	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u85	Mr. Black, do you copy?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u86	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u87	Mr. Papachristopoulos, do you copy?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u88	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u89	Yes, sir. Mr. Santorinier, you realize it's a noble concession. You've got seven minutes. Not one more.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I refer to four amendments which we have tabled and which are urgent because of the need to legislate. First of all, I should like to talk about the amendment with a general number of 1222 and a special number of seven. The proposed amendment deals with exceptional and unforeseen needs for the supply of fuel for the Greek Coast Guard operation, in order to address and ensure their operation, particularly during the summer season, which you understand there are special needs. This extension should be given until the end of the year in order to make the necessary adjustments to the system of supply of the Hellenic Coast Guard to existing public procurement legislation. The next amendment, on which I shall also table a legislative improvement, Mr President,...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u91	Give her now, if you have her ready, to be copied and distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u92	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u93	It is the amendment with a general number of 1225 and a special number of 10. With this amendment, for the first time, the regular budget of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy has been covered - it is self-evident, you will tell me - the cost of telecommunications and Internet access for the Academies of the Merchant Navy. Until now, based on existing legislation, this was not possible. Therefore, this is an option for this amount to be covered by our Ministry's regular budget. At the same time, the possibility is to fund the feeding of students of the Academy of Merchant Navy and of funds from the Public Investment Programme. In this way, as you can see, there will be more incentives for students of the Academy of Merchant Navy, especially for students in the region, because we know that most of them are low income levels. So I think it's a great motive for them to give the feed. With the second article of the amendment, which we tabled, the possibility is added to the port authorities to impose additional sanctions in cases of breach of existing legislation on illegal chartering of private pleasure boats. In particular, it allows port authorities to impose a prohibition of departure and at the same time, in order to lift the prohibition of departure, the fine must be paid at the time - it is the legal improvement that I have now tabled - or to give a guarantee letter from the offender, twice the amount of the fine. Only then will the possibility of lifting the ban be allowed. The next amendment is general number 1217 and special number 5. This amendment amends the way in which the declaration of launching of high-speed vessels and water wells is made. What's the matter to this day? The route period - as Mr Varvitsiotis will know, since he was at the Ministry - is until 31 October. Until that day, they have the right to declare launching of high speed craft and water wings, while conventional vessels have the right to declare service until 31 January of the previous year. This creates a major problem in the planning of the routes and in particular in ports where they co-departure, there are parallel departures and conventional and high speed craft, such as the port of Rafina. That is why we are proposing that the opening declaration should be made on 31 January, along with the contractual vessels and, in particular, as a transitional provision for this year, until 31 August. With the same amendment, national legislation is in line with European Regulation 1177/2010 on passenger rights. This must be done immediately, because already DIGI MOVE has adopted a directive, which we must comply with in the European regulations. This concerns, in particular, the rights of the passenger in cases of delay of the ship, where it is necessary to carry the passenger to the final destination, with another route, under comparable conditions of transport. In the event that the delay of the departure is more than ninety minutes, a light meal and refreshment should be provided to passengers. Also, in the event of the departure delay, passengers have the right to request the ticket fee. [[At this point, the warning bell closes the speaking time of the Secretary-General]] Give me some more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u94	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u95	The last amendment we are tabling under general number 1224 and special 9 is an important amendment. With this amendment, an important step is taken to stop in the Aegean Sea finally running water boats. It is an amendment which we will try to make temporary decommissioning facilities, respecting both the existing and the environmental legislation, but which has a great deal of bureaucracy, and often it takes a lot of time to install these plants. Already, as you know, we have started setting up desolating plants everywhere and we are seeking, in the next period of time and by the end of the year, that desalination units have been installed everywhere. [[The President-in-Office of the Council, Mr DIMITRIOS KAMMEINOS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Therefore, because there were some desalination units which the General Secretariat of the Aegean had purchased in 2013, in Kimolos and in the Leipzig, for example, and they have stayed there - I do not know why they have left there - and they have never been installed, the question is that they should settle and be immediately, before they are deceived. We cannot tolerate this process of transporting water to the islands by boat in 2017. Once, these interests must be stopped. Once, our islands must acquire aqueous autonomy. With this amendment, we are giving the possibility of temporary set-up by 2020 of such decommissioning units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u96	We call on the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Ioannis Sarakiotis, to step in. You have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are entering the final phase of the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Digital Policy on the electronic advertising system, the establishment of a register of regional and local press, the introduction of the bar code into the paper versions and the strengthening of the production of audiovisual works in our country. This is a draft law, which introduces a series of innovations, primarily with a focus on transparency in the media sector. Clearly, what someone would say. We wonder why it wasn't so many years, it could be against anyone else. The fact is, however, that nothing has happened for very specific reasons. Those who have left, rather, to see the news of large private television stations easily find out who these reasons are. Those who observe the chord of Officer Opposition with majesty interests are also aware of much. Really, what happened to those famous posts of Officer Responsibility officials for the licensing of television stations? We have had developments on this issue and we must inform the Greek people here from the Step of the Greek Parliament, because unfortunately, it will not be informed from elsewhere. And the notion is. I would therefore remind you that the National Broadcasting Council decided unanimously on the price of television licences and set the starting price of 35 million for each of the seven television licences. Last year's process, the first attempt to authorize television channels after thirty years, was accepted, as was the total amount. It was also accepted that the spectrum is finite. Didn't you say that the spectrum is unlimited, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and your President, from this moment on, did they not claim it? Should you at least ask for an apology for last year's crowns and ironic smiles when the licensing procedure was followed? I wonder what you will now say about the decision of an PSE, which was served with a broad consensus of the House. You have arrived to cancel historically members of your party, your former president, just to satisfy the commitments of the canalarchs. No contribution to dialogue. Your position has been, and unfortunately, nothing else has been, and you continue in the same pattern. You bring the exclusive responsibility for the nebulous situation in the broadcasting landscape and you have not tabled the slightest proposal on the draft law. So what's your contribution? The comments on Maduro and developments on Venezuela? The criticism of Mr. Varoufakis? Because that's what we heard in the committees from your members. I'd like to come to the draft law now. What's coming to solve the electronic system? In the past twenty years, we have had four legislations by an equal number of ministers, as well as a series of initiatives supposed to regulate the landscape. Result? The media, which went bankrupt, leaving hundreds of people on the street, a 'closed' advertising market for a few and selected people, supported by the otherwise liberal and market economy coun tries, underground transactions at high cost for public funds and, of course, an increasing complexity of political power with journalistic offices through public adverts or, better, state gifts. This platform will be linked to the Independent Public Income Authority, to finish once and for all money laundering and tax evasion. The supervisory body will be the ESS, while the Ministry will have absolutely no involvement in the functioning of the system. Three are the dimensions that cover this electronic system. The commercialisation, in the form of a price system for the sale of the advertising product, of commercial transactions between stations and advertisers and the calculation of charges per advertiser and per station. Management, headed by financial transactions, resulting from commercial transactions and implementation of content management with a view to respecting the eligibility rules. Let us remember what was happening so far: The famous n.3592/2007, which banned the returns from advertisers to the advertisers, a provision which was never implemented, with returns being baptized for cigarettes and the rule of illegality being perpetuated. Previously, Law 2328/1995 provided for a reward of up to 9.9% with the return to practice being two, three or even four times greater. You have legally determined the rates of refund and you are coming today to accuse us of Soviet history. As far as the Regional and Local Press Register is concerned, we are also making progress here with the dismantling of the commitments of the political authority, to the publishers and vice versa. Public notices and public notices will now be published electronically and with the right of appeal by the party concerned. The blurred regime in which the Minister drew up the final decision on which newspapers will have the right to public publications and which will be excluded. The competent bodies will cross-check the participants’ electronically, with the aim of restoring legality in the specific transactions and market consolidation. Finally, the 70-30 ratio is established on the treatment of central and regional media, as is the first application of sanctions by the Ministry, if any, if an entity does not comply with the above percentage. What prevailed to this day? The overwhelming part of the advertising pie was directed to the main media and some stunks were thrown into the regional and local media to support political careers and serve micropolitical interests. So no more unconscious practices. We are legislating in the interest of the Greek people and guaranteeing the rule of law, and not as to how we will ensure our re-election through the preservation of this vicious circle. Anyone who has so far taken over the rule of the country has also entered the conciliation cycle. We break him and throw his remains at the heart of the country's black history. Furthermore, with regard to the introduction of a bar code system, I will not repeat what is written in the text of the bill and what I mentioned in the discussions in the committees. I want to stand on an indicative event. Only the announcement of the Ministry's legislative initiative led to a downward adjustment of the traffic estimates of a large Sunday newspaper by thirty thousand cards. Does that mean anything? The publisher changed his agency and suddenly, his traffic assessment, was ejected by twenty thousand cards. Other newspapers stated that they no longer trusted the traffic assessments. A distribution agency announced that it would proceed as such to import a barcode system, while other publishers found, by miracle, that there were significant discrepancies between the reported data and actual sales. All of this, only if it is intended to be put into the legislative initiative. Finally, I come to provide incentives for the production of audiovisual works in our country. It is an initiative, which is supported by a majority of the stakeholders and I think it is generally self-evident. It is characteristic that the words of the Vice-President of Cyclades, Mr. Leodouritis, according to which, after eleven months of constant effort and despite the adverse circumstances, an important step was taken to implement an investment project that will take off the local economy, with enormous benefits for the tourist development of Syros, Cyclades and our country, in general. Suffice it to note here that the South Aegean Region has accepted a proposal entitled "The Greek film project in Syros", signed by well-known producers and directors of Hollywood. The amount of the initial investment is EUR 6.5 million and, of course, our country has no luxury of ignoring such proposals. Those who oppose this part of the legislative initiative obviously think that the country has this luxury. For the self-evident revolution, a former Prime Minister was speaking. The current government does not live in words and moves forward in self-evidentness. No more promises, no more indifference, no more involvement! This bill is one of the reasons why the Greek people honoured us with their vote and we intend to honour their trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u98	Thank you very much Mr Sarakiotis. The rapporteur, Mrs Anna - Michel Asmakopoulou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u99	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a multiplier plan, which has four chapters. Chapter I establishes the electronic system for the provision of television advertising time. Chapter II amends some provisions for the regional press. Chapter III redefines the scope of the specific bar code marking, the so-called bar code, for printed versions. And the last chapter introduces an institutional framework for strengthening the production of audiovisual works. And I have to tell you, first of all, that we have obviously not changed. New Democracy will vote against Mr. Pappa's plan. The four chapters highlight the four main features of the Tsipras - Kammenos government: ideology, party feasibility, inefficiency and mockery. The route to Parliament, but also within Parliament, shows that it is a monument of manoeuvre at the level of the legislature. At first we had a multi-project, Minister - correct me - which included the well-known Greek NASA, which you announced from the beginning of the year. This was put into public consultation in the spring and provided for the establishment of an anonymous company, the Hellenic Space Organisation S.A. And while the Minister assured everyone that this would come to Parliament as part of this multi-brand plan, the services of the Ministry of Finance did not agree to exclude the Space Service from Law 3429/2005, which is the law on the CJEUs and its publicity. Mr. Pappas, actually, wanted an anonymous company so he could hire his own people. But Mr. Tsakalotos wanted the Greek NASA to have a public character. It was, that is, - let us say - on the Drasakis line, which we have read recently that it wanted to do everything in public and even nationalize the banks. That's what we read today. It seems Mr. Chakalotos is on this line. In any case, Mr. Tsakalotos landed Mr. Papapas' plans to build the Greek NASA, in the form of the public limited company and the first part of the plan was lost in the "black hole" of the Ministry of Finance. So we come to Chapter I today, which is left and which is the famous electronic advertising system. The original provisions - we have to talk about last week, as the Minister defended it, as it came to Parliament - for the electronic system for the allocation of television time first highlight the idea of this government. Why do they show her? Because they are yet another part of the well-known type of plan, the spearhead of which is Mr Papapas, our Minister, the propaganda Minister. What does that plan say? This plan says that it is absolutely necessary for this government to check on the information. According to the original version of the bill, therefore, all broadcasters in the Greek territory, regional, national, managers, undertakings intervening in order to distribute and distribute advertising time, advertising firms and any other person carrying out advertising time transactions, were required to carry out those transactions through that system, the electronic, mandatory and exclusive. That is what the law, which came out in consultation, said until the second reading of the bill. So this system would be planned by the Minister, Mr Papapas. It would then be chosen by means of a competition, which would be managed for eight years, and the price would be determined by a tender, which would be done with an optimisation algorithm that the Minister would make. All this would be done, of course, under the supervision of the National Broadcasting Council, whose Vice-President told us in the consultation "What can I say about how I should supervise a system, which I have not seen and do not understand how it works?" So well he understood supervision! In short, Mr. Pappas, after he failed to control the channels with the well-known anti-constitutional Pappa law, because he couldn't share permits, what is he doing? So he brought this system so that, by the side road, he could check the information and the channels. How do you mean? Controlling advertising revenues, which is essentially the main source of channel revenues. In the debate, we, as a New Democracy, raised and documented the extremely serious issues of unconstitutionalism, which this advertising platform had. First of all, did we indicate that the compulsory and exclusive allocation of advertising time through the platform and the establishment of the tender, as a single authorised method, violates how many principles? Shall we begin with the constitutional principle of economic freedom and the consequent principle of contract freedom? There is no invoicing of a greater public interest. The Minister says something about the spectrum, because advertising on the spectrum is something about a supreme public good. But it also violates the constitutional principle of proportionality, violates the competition law of the European Union and, of course, endangers sensitive personal and commercial data. You, Minister, at the first three meetings of the committees, when we raised these crucial issues of unconstitutionalism and asked for explanations, what did you say? "Have some defenses, ladies and gentlemen, do not expose yourself. It is a market full of grey zones and only anyone who takes advantage of these grey areas of money trafficking can be faded with such passion." That's what Mr. Pappas said at the first meeting and he blamed us for taking the side of the bad canals and bad advertisers. You told us about compulsoryity, Mr. Poppa, "We are dealing with the exploitation of a good, which is rare and public, and from there too, the obligation can arise when a market is made transparently and with very specific rules, because the broadcasting landscape is in direct control of the state in our Constitution".
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u100	The Constitution says that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u101	So that is what Mr Pappas said in the first debate on the subject and in the debate on the articles when he listened to the institutions. Here comes the second reading of the bill, one weekend, and a hundred and eighty-degree turns!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u102	Aren't you happy?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, please, a little quiet, a little respect.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr President. How many legislative improvements are coming, ladies and gentlemen? Twenty-two legislative improvements! Do you have a picture of how many articles they are? It's twelve articles! Twenty-two legislative improvements! Hey, take that bill back and we're done! If, therefore, we are opposed to the proposals in the memorandum, which are shared by advertising companies, advertising companies and the Association of Private Television Stations, i.e. the canalarchs, you will see that they have been adopted in their overwhelming percentage. Grey belts the Minister said. Mr Pappas, now, after the twenty-two legislative improvements to the twelve articles, with what is left of this perforated chapter, it is only compulsory that all transactions relating to the advertising time of television should be recorded and that tenders should be fully voluntary for those who so wish. That's what you did to get us to agree. That is what the bad canals, which we argued, were asking for, those who said that the market must remain full of grey zones and those who benefited from grey zones. I ask, Minister: what exactly happened? Have you changed your mind about what gray zones are? Did you accept New Democracy's argument on market freedom, or did you take a rapid constitutional law seminar this weekend, which took place between the debate on articles and the second reading? Because it's not justified otherwise. Unless, at last, Mr Pappas, you realised that the adoption of anti-constitutional provisions, such as your law, entails political responsibilities and sometimes entails personal responsibilities. In any case, the first chapter remains 'damned' by your ideology, handmade, legal perforated, and that is why we are voting against it. From Chapter I, which we are voting against, because of the ideology that passes through it, we go to Chapter II. This is for the regional press. Chapter B, therefore, in addition to curiosity, also highlights your party feasibility. Why am I saying that? Because here we have the modification of the provisions for the regional press. So this came without any prior public consultation with the operators. No consultation! Why shouldn't there be consultation? For all the other parts of the bill there was consultation. There was consultation for NASA, which didn't come to the bill. The provisions for the regional press have come without consultation with the relevant bodies. Why? Because this is part of your status plan, too, to check the regional media. The reduction of the minimum of cards sold, the lack of provision of a minimum number of pages, the reduction of the percentage of local issues without consultation, merely confirms your intention, Minister, to detract from the dynamics of regional newspapers, to reduce their quality and even to abolish the 50% quota for televisions, 40% for literature and 10% for radio, and the fair distribution and transparency, leaving room for the government or any administrative government to favour at will. In other words, in order to come to an agreement, you can bring in photographic provisions that set out criteria to impact and devalue regional instruments that do not support you and build your own regional instruments by distributing state advertising. And the institutions are asking for this chapter to be withdrawn. You brought legal improvements, which appear to be in the right direction. I cannot judge without even reading them, because you have not distributed them. But I can tell you that the consultation will not take place from 9 o'clock at night, until we vote on the bill with the operators. And they must give an opinion so that we too can draw a conclusion. The institutions therefore call for this chapter to be withdrawn, for consultation to be held and for us to move forward. So let's go from the purely party feasibility of Chapter B to Chapter C, which is the well-known barcode, the special marking of a barcode. Here I will say that your title as a minister of propaganda also emerges - you also have help, of course, from your worthy colleagues - but also from your ineffectiveness. You tried once again, with leaks, to form a false impression of the New Democracy's position on the bar code. Why did you do that? Why did you want a diversion, so that your great political dependence on advertising time and electronic platform is not discussed? I would point out, therefore, that we are in agreement. The New Democracy is in favour of transparency offered by the bar code. We have reservations, Minister, as to the effectiveness of the technical implementation of this provision. That's the point. Neither the subject of subscribers nor the application of this article shall be resolved at points which do not have scanning machines. Your approach is therefore ineffective in dealing with the risk we recognise, which is to measure traffic correctly. That's the target. We reserve, have you brought something we've seen in the legislative improvements? So I spoke, Mr President, and also on the lack of ideology, on the service of political purposes and on the inefficiency. However, there is no mockery in any bill by the Tsipras - Kammenos government, without which we are not going anywhere. The New Democracy, therefore, on Chapter IV, obviously supports the creation of an institutional framework for the strengthening of audiovisual productions. We understand the benefits for the country from this. However, Mr Pappas and Mr Cretso are mocking the producers, using the so-called'monetary money' method. You said the same about development law this summer, brought by Mr Stathakis, and that billions will fall on the market. A year later, the evaluation of proposals has not even started. Not even a single euro from the development law has fallen on the market. In practice, the result is zero. Mr President, I would like to give you a minute's tolerance to the amendments. The amendments will also be discussed by our competent colleagues and by our parliamentary representative. I will focus on my amendment of competence, namely the one for the PSE. Mr. Poppa, honestly, why are you being so tortured with this bill? Remove a little - a little, a lay-out. Why don't you admit that you've made a big political mistake, you've eaten the sprat and that's it? Let's sit down and find it. A little - a little, one - an arrangement, what the PSE wants and one another! This is not a serious approach. You have been politically obsessed with your vindication of unconstitutionality and this political rupture. I shall close, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. For the political strife of your anti-constitutional law, as much as to slow him down, Minister, we had given you the title of the failed "Minister-Canalarch". And with your practices in the field of information in general - because with digital policy you are not concerned, that is clear - we have given you the title of 'Minister of Propaganda'. I think that after today's bill, you can leave the Chamber as the signifier of the government's idealism and inability. And this title, I personally believe that you have earned him worthy, Mr. Poppa.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u105	Make a draw!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u106	However, if, as my friend says, you want to make a draw, there is no question. I tell you that whatever happens to your Government, frankly, it will be time for each of you to answer for their responsibilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u107	Thank you very much Mrs Ammakopoulou. I would ask the rapporteur to come to Stepma from the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law under discussion is an example of contradictory and irrational legislation. I address you, because most of you have cross-checked our arguments during the discussions in the committees. The debate began with the main objection on our part to the essential unconstitutionality that the obligation to carry out transactions, through the platform, that is to say, through a system for the disposal of television advertising time. From the very first moment when you said otherwise, we considered that it was unconstitutional to ban Article 3(2) of any transaction other than this system, on the grounds that the intervention of the Government is contrary to the basic principles of law enshrined in the Constitution, national and Community law, such as the principle of contractual freedom, the principle of freedom of competition, the obligation to protect property and property.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, please make a little quiet. Please be quiet, respect the speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr President. During the debate with the bodies, but also between the parties in the committees, three problems were raised. The first problem was that it would be unconstitutional to carry out all advertising time transactions between national and regional television stations, businesses, advertisers and advertisers, through an electronic system and at the same time banning any other transaction. Until yesterday, you said the opposite. The second problem was that the government intervenes in a good free transaction - I remember too many of the Members who smiled and said, "What are you saying now? This is rare and we must regulate it - not to protect consumers, but because the government, in this way, committed and manipulated its good and traded. In particular, the Government intervened in the sale, in the quantity of the time for each station, of that time in the programme and the value of the time to be sold. Thirdly, the use of the electronic system to simply record transactions and pursue the greatest possible transparency would not create a problem of unconstitutionality or interfere in the functioning of the market. During the second reading, the Minister, Mr Papapas, chose to retreat. It was a naughty retreat because it changed the content of Chapter I. And I'll prove to you how. It changed the compulsion and prohibition of each non-system transaction and limited the operation of the platform, only with regard to the recording of transactions. Who said that? We've said it all along. It had been proposed by the institutions. Therefore, all of this about intervention in a market, which is incompatible, on a market where there are great interests, has resulted in a simple recording - and we will see how - of the transactions that the market is making outside the platform and, if it wishes, on a voluntary basis, it can be addressed to the platform. You and I know it's never gonna happen. In fact, the government majority with another chapter I began, another chapter I was proposed and of course another chapter I argued and supported here, another content was supported by the last week and ultimately other content will be voted on. I really don't want to be in your place.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u111	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u112	But I will tell you, Mr Lappa, why that is contradictory. It's contradictory how you legislate. We, if you will, in the position that we have taken, fully welcome Mr Pappa's retreat. We know that it does not come from the discussions that took place in the Chamber, but from other reflections that man had, as he said before that he could read the Constitution. I accept it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u113	How do you know? How did you lead to this conclusion?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u114	For the reflections? When a bill changes, this is my appreciation, Mr. Comrade. But what you should really take into account is this: there is one problem, ladies and gentlemen. You will vote for a bill, because we will vote against it, which, otherwise, says in his explanatory statement and more says in the articles. The explanatory statement, you know very well, is part of the legal corpus. He will find it later, if necessary, the judge, to see what the will of the legislator is and then he will understand that between the report and the bill, which has been passed has changed the will of the legislator. That's what this is about. The reason why he changed, the legislator himself will tell us. Let's go to the second question. In order to record any advertising time transaction as described in Article 5(1), does it really need a legislative initiative? Why didn't Mr. Pappas withdraw Chapter I so that he could come with a ministerial decision to regulate all these things? You didn't need that much argument. Since I see you are not feeling very comfortable with this change, I will tell you this: Does it matter - and is the third question - that after the processing of the relevant provisions - it is a processing - and the articles in question, since advertising time is no longer forbidden outside the platform, why is that not clearly stated? It is a very simple and very sensible question. You take off the paragraph, which says that every transaction is forbidden, while, in fact, it is optional, say in it - so many legislative improvements you have made - that such transactions are simply permitted, if it is optional. And you will see how many of the interested parties will resort to the platform. But let's actually go. We have a degradation of the original draft law and the degradation continues with two other regulations that stimulate the processing of the articles in relation to the introduction of the bill at the level of symbolic legislation. If the auction is now optional, if the system no longer determines prices, advertising time, pricing, collection and clearing, then why should there be a platform and what benefit of the administrator? Why should the administrator plan it, why develop it, as long as it's not paid? How will the new system become? Who's gonna prepare it? How is now legally justified also by the taxation of transactions recorded in the system in accordance with Article 8(1)? Are you going to put a hat on the advertising campaign because there was a legal transaction and do you think that this promotes transparency in transactions between individuals? As a consequence, it is the question: if the basic obligation to carry out the invitation to tender has been abolished, why have you kept them at the same level? So, do you not feel that if all these procedures are optional now, this is where sanctions go beyond the principle of proportionality, if not? Finally, all of this is confirmed, which we have been telling you since the first meeting, the fact that the mission of the National Broadcasting Council is now limited - listen to it, because you had very much argued about it - to establish the timely functioning of the system and to adopt the Code of Conduct and Good Practice. In conclusion, therefore, for the first chapter, we find that the rescheduling of the Minister has resulted in a very limited scale of intervention in the field of advertising, not of great practical importance and without the result that you have sought to ensure transparency. The only transparency there will be will be that, from now on, transactions will be recorded under the responsibility of the stakeholders. That could have been a simple ministerial decision. It is important that you, in fact, took back unconstitutional arrangements, arrangements, which you introduced with such passion, when Mr Pappas was referring to a week ago in the rareness of the good and others liked, who suddenly disappeared today from political arguments. But what matters - and I keep the political conclusion - is that Mr Pappas has failed once again to manipulate the media and direct or bind advertising time and advertising money to any algorithms and platforms he has prepared. This is over. In Chapter II, our position is clear. Democratisation is in principle in favour of transparency, development and sustainability of regional-type enterprises, with specific criteria such as, for example, economic indicators, personnel employed, leaf sales, readability, tax and insurance information. That is what we consider to be essential elements in regulating the press landscape at regional level. These criteria, however, make sense in order to streamline the operation of the regional press and combat phenomena of political corruption, such as extortionist phenomena, but also opacity in economic trade with the state. What were you doing with the draft law under discussion? Almost nothing. The relevant chapter of the Act was never a consultation element. All the representatives of the associations of regional bodies have told you. It is not an integrated legislative framework for the regional and local press. It includes fragmentary arrangements for individual issues, such as government advertising and, finally, it is sufficient for small client-type arrangements and services. What does he actually do? It is, of course, establishing a register which, under other conditions, would be a proper political regulation of the space, but which, on the one hand, sets flexible rules and, on the other hand, slashs the eye to candidates. And that should not be the case, ladies and gentlemen. See the arrangement in Article 14 that, in order to register regional and local newspapers, dailys are required to be issued for six months and weeklys for one year and to have sales from two to five hundred and fifty cards, depending on the category.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u115	Change that!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u116	Depending on the charge. Change with the state of law school. What are you doing with this arrangement? You close the eye to wicked local players, who will issue a card after the law is passed, which will work for six months, will ask local players, mayors and other, state advertising - and you know that it is not state advertising, but they are declarations - and then all of them will be in a register that will be open to everyone, without strict conditions. It is essential that this does not happen. We must combat political blackmail and political corruption. And there are ways. You know them very well. It should work before the law is issued and not six months later. Because you know that this is a window and a door open to those who want to intervene in this way at local level and blackmail either mayors or mayors or go to elections local, regional and parliamentary in a few months' time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u117	Now, isn't that what you're saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u118	But don't you want to prevent it? I tell you to stop it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u119	Are you satisfied with this regime?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u120	I'm telling you to stop it. I tell you to change it and prevent it. This is not space resolution. We can, however, make space reorganisation now, with strict conditions, which, as I say to you, will have as the subject of basic features, which will be, for example, sustainability, duration of traffic, the number of cards, all of which we have the potential to regulate, so that the sustainable newspapers from non-papers, from simple sheets and all those who want to play at the expense of the political system, can also be separated. Therefore, we need - and this is what we are proposing - strict conditions for certification and registration, which will depend on the length, economic adequacy and sustainability of the newspaper. We have four comments on Chapter B. On the number of journalists employed, which is provided for in the draft law under discussion, there must be categorisation so that in cities of fifty thousand inhabitants and over, more journalists are required than you say - more than 100 thousand - so that they are real newspapers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance, Mr President. I won't be long. Secondly, provision should be made for a minimum level of staff employed other than journalists. Because a newspaper isn't just publishing with journalists. He wants a technical staff too. We must foresee that for all the newspapers. All staff should be insured with the EFCA in order to avoid cases of newspaper traffic, without apparent journalists, without personnel. In the interests of exclusion of an issuer director, due to an irrevocable judicial decision, we should also see the issue again, if necessary, of issuing foreign exchange or non-payment of currency from the envisaged offences. In Chapter C, we agree with a position of principle with the special marking of a written code in the printed versions. I would like to point out the following: you are not referring to the specifications and the way in which the rules are applied. We do not know how this arrangement will be implemented. Nobody knows. We'll take off the barcode system later. We must therefore make provision for special arrangements for newspapers or for those with the highest percentage of subscriptions. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall conclude with Chapter IV with one question. Since SYRIZA is very sensitive to culture, I did not see the concrete regulation of capital signed, the entire bill, by the Minister of Culture. It's not her signature, Mr. Pappa. There is a problem in the context of sound and sound legislation. This bill should also be signed by the Minister for Culture.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u121	It's not her responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u122	It is not the cultural object of the film. You're absolutely right. But let her know, because she might not know.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u123	It's not just the movies. It's a lot. Video games aren't.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u124	The first question, then, is whether there has been a mistake. If there's a mistake, let's see. The second question, we have not yet understood where the money will be raised, this state-owned free provision, which, according to the State's General Accounting Office, is estimated at EUR 450 million. I think that we need more clarity here. The Democratic Reconciliation could support such a regulation, but it should be clearer. And I'm done with this. While we had started talking in plenary about this draft law, which had subversive legislative improvements last week, we have another twenty-eight, which came a few minutes before we went to the seat. You understand that, apart from contradictory and clandestine, it is paradoxical how you want to legislate on such a serious issue. So, we told you from the beginning, take it back, work it out, consult and come back and talk about it. That is why you do not want it and our attitude will be negative at the outset and most of the articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Papatheodorou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u126	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u127	Here you go, Mrs. Vakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u128	I would like to say something about what Mr Papatheodorou said, if I may, because there is a misunderstanding here. Article 3 on the obligation to participate in the system considers that all public and private broadcasters operating on Greek territory have an obligation to carry out the transactions through the system. Therefore, optionality is only about the auction. That is what I wanted to say to clarify some misinterpretations.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u129	Mr President, if you'll excuse me for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u130	Here you go, Mr. Papatheodorou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u131	Thank you, Mr President. If there are not to be any misinterpretations, I would like to tell you this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u132	Please do not open a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u133	It won't be a dialogue. A placement to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u134	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u135	Wait a minute, so there's no misunderstandings. "Possible" means that it is not mandatory. The obligation is for interested parties to declare the transaction, those who have done it, and to declare it lawfully. That is the requirement. Not to carry out it, as it was up to now, through the platform. This has changed and it's the subversive change of the bill. What you have been told, and we have told you. Recording should, on the other hand, be done by means of a mandatory platform, no. Therefore, misinterpretation was not for my part, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u136	Okay. Thank you very much. With the permission of this House, next speaker is the rapporteur for the Golden Dawn, Mr. Ioannis Shahinides...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u137	Mr President, may I make an intervention?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u138	Let me just say something, Mr. Pappa. Mr Papapas, I wanted to ask for the permission to intervene with Mrs Papanatsiou on the amendments so that we also have content for the next rapporteurs. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u139	I would say that opposition should take care of the political lacquers, because it is not possible to accept everything, what the canal owners have asked for and to vote against, because the bill is governed by our ideas. For third is equal to each other and therefore canalarchs and canaloos are governed by our ideas. Beware of the structural and internal contradictions in our criticism.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u140	Why not? They can happen both.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u141	Yes, sir. If that is the official position of the New Democracy. I'd tell you, Mrs. Vulture, try her out with the world. In any case, try to overcome the shock of denial of your position that licenses can be unlimited...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u142	And you didn't hear it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u143	...and denial of your expectation that there will be no price for the licenses. It's over!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u144	In Florence's study, that's all!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u145	Thank you. Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u146	This, in other words speaking by a rapporteur and dialogue on his speech, allowed it to be because of kindness. It was kindly done and it helps parliamentary dialogue. He also brought the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Every ministerial speech enables representatives of the parties to comment on his speech. That's not what we're telling you, Minister. We tell you that you have a heavy responsibility towards yourself and your political dignity to introduce to the Standing Committee of the Parliament the compulsion of the electronic platform, to have your MPs buy on it and react to the criticism of anti-population, to do a real tomba, not for reasons of recklessness, which Mr Papatheodorou kindly said, but why they told you to take it back and bend it against him, who told you whether it is in Athens or outside Athens, and then to have your MPs buy for the opposite of what you have been introduced. Minister, there is a limit to indifference. I think that's true for all of us. You have overcome it a lot, so you are somewhat restrained by the criticism you are making to party rapporteurs. You do not typically have the possibility of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament or of the political right to do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u147	Mr President, I just want the floor for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u148	All right, Minister, but please get this over with. You have the floor for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u149	Mr. Loverdo, I'd expect you to ask for at least one apology because we went in here and started shouting. So I ask you now: what amendments we have put forward on a proposal from the National Broadcasting Council and about which you were screaming and asking us if we are not ashamed of them, will you vote yes or no? Have you regretted your irresistible screaming and pursuit never become a competition, no licenses and no price paid? And you're giving up on us? Stand up now and say that you will vote on these amendments, which we have brought on a proposal from the PPE.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u150	You can't do that!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u151	Mr President, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u152	Mr. Loverdo, please, make it easier, because...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u153	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u154	It's not personal. I think it's on the position...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u155	It's personal, and I don't think there's any need to explain it. I want my minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u156	Okay. But please hang up here, so we can make it easier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u157	We are talking, when we address you, about political inconvenience. We're not talking about gravitation. I don't think you're serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u158	I disobeyed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u159	I told you from the outset that you brought a draft law, which you overthrown. And in order for the majority to vote on your burns, you make the House work at this rate after a draft law with a hundred articles. And you have the courage to bring, not only your fellow Members' amendments that may have an extraordinary character, but yours too. And it is not just the PSE amendment. They're yours, too. And you have the political enthusiasm, the basic amendment to overthrow your draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u160	Will you vote on them?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u161	I told you for this reason that you must be ashamed. But you're not ashamed. You're not ashamed because whatever political and judicial slaps you eat, you don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u162	Let's see if you'll vote for them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u163	You want to be Minister on the same subject. But you will be humiliated whenever you get the right to legislative initiative. Parliament will humiliate you. Here's what the rapporteurs and the other parties have told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u164	You didn't tell us if you were going to vote on them!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u165	Thank you very much. I would very much like to have the permission of this House, as you do, Mr Shahinides, if you please, to inform us of the amendments, so that the rest of the rapporteurs can comment on them. Thank you very much. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr President. I shall mention the amendment with general number 1227 and a special number 12, which concerns the first part of the clearance of the expenditure of the Kerani building. The proposed arrangement is necessary, as much of the operating costs of the Korani building, which the Greek State holds, have not been repaid for formal reasons. In particular, rents, electricity, water and gas consumption bills, which cannot be repaid either because of the ambiguity that prevailed in the identity of the lessee and the person liable for payment and because the account form is not correctly mentioned by the payee to enable them to be paid. This amendment takes over the burden of the relevant appropriations by the Ministry of Finance, in which the budget for the current year is the following operating expenditure relates to the use of this building and relates to rents between 23 May 2014 and 12 June 2016 and from 1 January 2017 until 31 May 2017, electricity consumption expenditure up to 30 June 2017, gas consumption expenditures up to 30 April 2017 and water expenditures up to 27 July 2017. In the second part of the amendment, we have arrangements for the Greek Air Industry SA. Here is an issue - which we all know - in order for the Greek Air Industry to function. The proposed arrangement settles the outstandings with regard to the materials imported under the special arrangements for the customs warehouse and the inward processing of the Greek Air Industry at an earlier date of the entry into force of this year as well as re-exported on condition that the counterparties are provided with relevant attestations attesting to the completion of the projects. Therefore, ODA will not have the obligation to pay the customs duties due on liquidation under the present schemes. At the same time, this arrangement allows the importing company to introduce materials relating to new works contracts within the framework of the special schemes. Subsequently this company will continue to make use of the special arrangements by resubmiting goods to them. This makes it easier to operate this company, which is of major importance, in terms of peak structures and technologies, for the aircraft and engine maintenance industry and for aerial construction and, at the same time, the necessary conditions are created for the development of trade and our national economy. In addition, the question of the pending customs infringement protocols relating either to an additional attestation of customs duties or to the imposition of fines shall be settled on account of non-compliance with the relevant provisions on special arrangements for customs warehouses or inward processing by means of inward processing, provided that the conditions laid down are met for the sake of equal treatment of cases in which the checks and cases in respect of which a customs infringement protocol has already been entered have not been completed. For the same reasons, the withdrawal of already issued allocation transactions is envisaged.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u167	Thank you, Minister. Thank you, too, for the concession. Mr. John Shahinides has the floor from Golden Dawn for fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u168	Thank you, Mr President. Really what you have achieved in this Chamber is unprecedented. You've confused us with your inner-party differences. And when I say inner-party, I mean between SYRIZA - ANEL, New Democracy - PASOK, because inner-party differences are the differences I see. We cannot understand which of you are left-wing, who are right-wing, who are capitalists, who are conservatives. I see a conflict that lasts for three weeks and the seven bills they have come. We just don't know who's going to go with who in the next election. And you should, Minister, be careful of your intercom, because at the moment you referred to the large number of amendments which have been made to the last bills, you were obviously unaware that the President of Parliament, Mr Voutsis, has also mentioned, with the difference that the bell was ringing in this Chamber that, from all this history, there is a benefit of another wing. You don't even have the courage to call it. Say it! The only wing that goes up in this House is Golden Dawn and you will understand that very well. Also, a report on the exact same subject was made, before Mr. Voutsi, by Mr. Dritsa. But here, what did it surprise me? I was very surprised that while he was successful in a passion - and well he - at the expense of the Officerial Vice-President, you yourself were only two days ago in applauding Mr Javarra, the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy. Why? Because he commented on the speech of the competitor, Panagiotis Eliopoulos. So it is a rhetorical question to Mr Javara, who is here and obviously listens and I would be happy to come in and answer me. If his wife had given birth ten days ago, and a rotten para-state system accused him of being unjustly protected for eighteen months, depriving him of his physical presence from his family, how, of course, would he react? In fact, seeing the democracies and makers present in this Chamber on a daily basis as democrats and unblemished. I expect him to tell me exactly how he'd react. I'm gonna use his words because I'm not used to feeling. He said our soul was black. If this is how he tries to identify an ideological colour, I accept it. But he's trying to identify other things. Mr. Javaras, like his party, and the rest of the constitutional arch, has blackened the soul and heart of all Greeks, with the impoverishment, treason, lies and impunity of the politicians involved in the scandals and the sale of the public property of the Greek people. You were absolutely right, Mr. Javarra, the day before yesterday, when you said...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u169	Personally, you will not address a Member.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u170	And you personally addressed Mr. Heliopoulou. Please don't interrupt me. To take the floor later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u171	Rule 66 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u172	Mr. Javarra, it's well known.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u173	You're very welcome. He has no right to speak to a Member personally. It's the Rules of Procedure. Anyone who speaks from the Step is addressed to the House. They'll stop it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u174	I am addressing this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u175	That's to stop. I do not tolerate any violations of the Rules of Procedure and even from the Golden Dawn! It's over!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u176	Please, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u177	He said in this Chamber that "we should deal with some types of serious, who exploit their status" and play with the intelligence of the Greek people, I add. We're totally in agreement. Thieves in prison and stolen to the people. Many people in this Chamber have, unfortunately, ceased serving her long ago. There was also a report that some people are taking us in step and tolerated. You're getting confused, gentlemen. The step has not been taken by any of you. The step in this Chamber has given us more than half a million Greek voters, and unfortunately for you, this figure has geometric progress. As far as tolerance is concerned, we call on the Greek people to stop being tolerated, you and your policies. But you all have another big flaw. You only talk without listening. And I have repeatedly pointed out to you that you do not respect him, but you earn him. And since the guards are aware, I would again remind you that exactly with the same democraticity we will deal with you when God claims and rules this place by nationalists. But since our positions and our actions, our word, our policy-making, are condemned by many in here, please explain why many of you adopt our views during your election period in the region where you are elected and even present yourself as defenders of these ideas. And we're going to the draft law. I had also referred to committees, Mr Minister, in Article 14(3) and (4). Article 14 tells us what? You apply to newspapers in the region, which are weekly, under eighty thousand inhabitants, sold from two to three hundred and fifty cards. At the hearings I had told the institutions to answer what their view of a newspaper, yours, AUGI, which sells a thousand cards a day, which, if divided by fifty one, is twenty-five cards a day. If we multiply them by seven, weekly, you do not catch the limit, Minister, it is a hundred and seventy - five cards. So do what you want first in your newspaper and then in the regional press. I will stay for a while in the supervisory role of the National Broadcasting Council and in Article 10. As a regulator and having control of the operation of the system, it may decide on its own motion or upon a complaint to impose penalties. However, I should like to point out here that the National Broadcasting Council has not, on its own initiative, been seized on other major issues - where there are grossly constitutional rights and there is no way of promoting the positions of our party - rather than allegedly imposing fines on our own complaints and extrajudicial performance. Apart from that, the Minister tells us that the PSE will only impose a fine if the proper functioning of the system is not disturbed. Be careful, the infringement will be recorded, complaints and illegality will be recorded, but at the end of the day the EPP may not impose any sanctions, because the system may be put at risk. So what is the usefulness of this provision, Minister? And - that's what matters - what is the sanctions? Enforcement of a fine. High? Financially serious, I would say. And who will say, Minister, safely, that it will not follow a conciliation, negotiation, bazaar, between the regulator and the manager or participant and will no longer be imposed in order to avoid further risks? That's nowhere to be answered. It is another loophole so that the government, through the independent authorities whose members it designates, also intervenes in the game of fines. In Article 5 an electronic system through an algorithm will calculate advertising time. How will this algorithm be calculated? What exactly is it counted? What data is controlled? It's evidence that they don't specialize. But we expect the Minister to resolve them with another ministerial decision. Below in the same article, we read in paragraph 2d that participants do not have access to sensitive commercial information, creating the impression that you want to prevent the disclosure of commercially sensitive information. This is happening at the same time as a European directive is being promoted. It is a matter of time before incorporation into national law. According to this, companies will have to use sensitive financial information through the use of a common platform. All provisions, pre-standards of personal data, on the next page, shall in practice be abolished when, in accordance with Article 7, the Independent Public Revenue Authority is given the opportunity to know any information it wishes in relation to the transactions and companies that contribute, without specialising in the case of financial data only. And it is enough that this violation will materially distort the rules of confidentiality. Even if the next case in this case is not explicitly defined, it is actually catastrophic. In Article 9, in addition to a breach of freedom of trade, the requirement to monitor the alternative behaviour of the system participants as well as full access to the relevant data constitutes a breach of the protection of personal data. The noteworthy here in conjunction with what we have already mentioned is that access to the files will not be granted by the tax authority - which, if you wish, is justified by the claim that it is done for the purpose of combating tax evasion - but by the Ministry through the legal person administering the task of operating the system. Finally, what is achieved is that, in one way or another, the confidential information of the parties will also be made available to the public limited company and the Ministry and the Independent Public Income Authority, which - note - is not even controlled by the Greek State. Article 7 sets out the obligations of the system operator, which are supposed to ensure its effective and impartial functioning. What guarantees, however, are given to the manager, who will be a public limited company - resulting from a competitive procedure - and whose interests cannot be controlled? To make a whole mechanism subject to the good will of the Minister, who, in the Ministerial Decision he will adopt in the future, will lay down the specific conditions and conditions to be met by the companies that will submit their proposal to the tender, that is not exactly transparent, Minister. How can it be avoided that a dialogue with potential bidders has already taken place so that the conditions laid down in the Ministerial Decision can be ensured that they are objective and that companies of interest to the government are not excluded? The co-responsibility of the government with the regulator and the increased responsibilities of the Minister are reflected in Article 6 where the Minister is given, again by his own decision, the right to extend the original eight-year system management by the administrator. What is the role of the ERC regulator in this regard? Would it not be safer every year or in a period of time, which I cannot define, to check the good functioning of this? In the meantime, we are discussing a bill, setting the foundations for a system which, firstly, will run from 1-9-2018 and, secondly, will be charged to the state budget by an additional EUR 1.62 million. The argument that such expenditure would be offset by the possible revenues from a possible fine is, on the one hand, a precarious argument and, on the other, shows a somewhat penalising nature of the State. And what does the state say to us? "I swear that the "h" is a violation and there is the sanction, I just expect you to finish the infringement and I collect it." I said above that we do not think that this system of anti-constitutionalism will work with a formal legality because it will not allow it to be involved, which is even more intensified by this diagram of electronic application. Negative change is also the reduction of days during the summer months of interruption of the issue of daily and weekly prefectures and local newspapers, going to ten days. Because the company is charged with another five days of extradition and operation within August, of course increasing costs, especially at a time when the crisis has led to a vast majority of issuers in a financial deadlock. Another thing that does not act as an incentive for publishers, but forbiddingly for them is this: It is foreseen that a daily newspaper should be started from the beginning if it becomes weekly. Newspapers who are converted into weeklys should not be punished and should not definitely be excluded because they are already existing businesses that will continue to employ staff and as a weekly by informing the local community. Finally, the other provisions of Articles 39 and 40 are as directed and obscure as the rest of the unacceptable bill as it provides, among other things, for a special manager in ERT racing, Article 39 para. 8, for the management of all of its assets, assets and liabilities to be added to the sum of your slow-wage partners, who have achieved while having more employees than the ‘BBC’ to keep the ERT at a viewing rate of less than 2%, where your election rates should normally vary. In closing, I read in the next paragraph that the Minister considers it minor, but that is not exactly the case, and in its decision this new administrator I mentioned on the management of the entire liability and assets, as I said before, of ERT SA. and its subsidiaries transferred to the State. In particular, under Decision No 2167/8-10-2015 published in the Official Journal of the Government, the company was appointed as the Special Manager under the name Baker Tilly Greece. The decision caused expenditure at the expense of the special clearance account, the exact amount of which could be determined only by the independent service contract signed by the parties. This remuneration shall be increased as long as the specific management project lasts. A few days, therefore, before the signature of the above Ministerial Council, and this was of enormous importance, the liquidation period of the former state-owned company of ERT was extended until 2017. Today you want to extend until April 29th 2019. However, this extension, ladies and gentlemen, is translated into a cost of EUR 29 200 per month, according to the report of the General Accounting Office of the State, that is to say, EUR 622,000. But one thing that seemed to us is that in the names of the sworn accountants and auditors of "Baker Tilly" we also read a name: Constantine Koutrolos. We did a little research here, and what did we trace? A coincidence! The same person, is what he had controlled and the company "TOXOTIS" of the well known with the grasslands Mr. Kalogrisa. How does the same person, who has not completed control at the ERT, causing expenditure on the state budget, see it here and at the 'TOXO'? And if you are aiming at this liquidation, which has begun for some years now, as was the liquidation of LARCO, which we had the day before yesterday in the Committee on Production and Trade and which lasted twenty-seven years, you have a good appetite!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u178	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u179	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u180	Mr Kontonis should first speak about his amendments. Minister, you have the floor for five minutes, for Amendment No 1221 and for Amendment No 6.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u181	The first part of this amendment is to do with the Proceedings Review Authority. This principle is a new principle and you understand the need to make some corrective steps to work properly. First and foremost, it is stated in the amendment that until 31/12/2017 the costs of the Ministry of Justice are borne by the Ministry of Justice, all costs are borne by the State budget, namely the Ministry of Justice. The second element is that in order to act quickly and directly we introduce an exception from the mobility system for the first two years. The third element of the first part of the amendment concerning the principle is the harmonisation of national law with Directive 66/2007. The fourth element is the clarification of all conventions which will be the field of GDP employment. Here are the two contracts of work, and in this way we believe that a cycle of legislation has been closed for the proper functioning of the principle. The second part of the amendment concerns mortgages. This has been the problem. We thought that the service councils would have completed the positions of graduates, and a legal school, as provided for in the law. Unfortunately, this has not been done and because there is a gap here, this particular gap will be filled by the heads of the peace courts. This provision understands that it is transitional and will last for a maximum of two months, because the Ministry of the Environment will introduce the new draft law, which concerns mortgages and property offices, namely the consolidation of offices such as we have known until now, mortgages and property offices in a single office, a single legal person governed by public law. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u182	Thank you very much, Minister. We move to the rapporteur of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u183	Thank you, Mr President. These hot days, at the end of July, early August, the government chose to bring the bills of fire, which relate to essential aspects of the life of the people's family, such as health and education, which, while these services should be completely free and upgraded, continue to be separable from where the previous governments left it, opening wide new profit fields for the business groups. With this bill, the government continues its efforts to reform the media sector. He comes to redistribute advertising pie to old and new businessmen in the media, to help gather and concentrate on less hands. It creates an institutional framework with incentives and funding to business groups with economic and not cultural criteria to enhance the production of audiovisual works in Greece. The government favours, serves this redistribution, with the prospect of forming a more friendly landscape, something which all the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK have done in the past, who are now shouting because SYRIZA copys them up to antenna. The aim is to promote the government's policy as the only alternative, as the smallest evil, presented as the other world by the New Democracy. With any variations, however, you serve capitalism, the power of monopolies. The other world is the ones who pay the god of profit, the exploited, the majority of the people, the unemployed, the workers, the retired, the self-employed, the poor farmers, who live the barbaricity of those who run the risk of the economy, which are the monopolistic groups, the large business groups. Along with their political staff, they shape the conditions for the life of workers and the people. Many provisions of the bill, such as those for the local and regional type or the repealed provisions of Article 40 concerning exemptions and restrictions, in the name of competition and healthy entrepreneurship, are repealed. All these regulations favour partnerships in the media sector and in the production of audiovisual works. The bill also gives tools to further the concentration and concentration of the market in this area. There are already lingering agreements in the field of television with large-scale ventures. From self-management, which the government has been putting forward for a long time as a solution, with which we of course disagree, you have adapted to the logic of 'all for capital'. The government and the OTA bill - and you have received the protests from the municipal councils of Athens and Thessaloniki - provide for the authorization of municipal radio stations through the auction. Entrepreneurs and municipal radios. Article 40 provides for the abolition of the provision of Article 8(9) of Law 3592/2007, by which, Minister, provided for the possibility of suspending the licence for radio stations when the payment has been delayed for months, as well as the possibility for workers otherwise to undertake the management of the radio station. By exploiting the broadband and the possibility of collecting business activities of many different branches with a consolidated element, the Government is trying to regulate this market from information, telecommunications and cinema. There is the possibility that a group will be active in telecommunications, on the Internet, on television, with all technical forms, cable, terrestrial, satellite, making production of audiovisual material, documentaries, films, musical productions, i.e. production with a huge range, large-scale and profitable economy. This whole framework is also used as a means of controlling creators, but also as a whole as a form of social consciousness, such as art and artistic creation. The government with the bill allows partnerships, mergers of business groups in these sectors. This reform has nothing to do with real information and entertainment for the people nor with the protection of workers' rights in the media. The shareholders of bankrupt channels take her out clean, make their alliances, and the employees pay the marble. In the media area there is a large part of enclaved workers, as this word is last used and the government plays the role of Pontius Pilate. He promises re-educational and social economy programmes such as those announced by the Prime Minister from the Ministry of Labour. The situation for media workers is tragic, as is, of course, tragic for all workers, in the private sector in particular. Generally speaking, in most newspapers and radio and television stations, unpaid work is being observed, media owners owe up to thirteen months' wages or pay sums against 100 euros, uninsured work is generalised, medical care is being beaten, and assistance due to the complete inability of the EDEAP to fulfil its obligations, of course, with the government's insurance laws, the theft of the reserves, the discharge of the company's contributions. Employers do not pay any wage-free wage-free contributions to pay the funds either. In recent years there have been hundreds of redundancies in the media, resulting in the intensity of exploitation. Collective agreements do not even exist in ERT, which the Minister presides. Dozens of workers, especially on site, are working under conditions of incredible intensification with 200 and 300 euros. Media workers who go through a new owner lose owed jobs and all their acquired assets, such as pre-services, etc. They do lose compensation for the years of their work. Television stations call for mergers and reduce staff. Employers are essentially seeking free labour. Unpaid work has taken large proportions in all branches. The decision of the Ice Bay opened up the amusement of the Hailus. Now they don't pay and they pay! The amendment we tabled as a JRC, Mr Minister, and together you announced with Mrs Ahtsoglu, the Minister for Labour, that you are accepting the first part of it, comes to give a solution to the decision of the Ice Bay, which she felt was not a bad change in the contract of employment. With the second paragraph of our amendment, which you reject, the framework for the non-payment of sanctions against employers is tightened up and a self-determination of these cases. The second paragraph may ensure that remuneration is paid. But you reject it. And what message do you give by not accepting sanctions? ‘Do not pay!’. You give this message and your responsibilities are great to workers. It was said that the words'reasonable delay' were'reasonable delay'. It is well known that the delay starts from the tenth day of the employee's payment, as the lawyers say, and it is a predominant condition, that is, from the end of the working month for the worker. When we say remarkable, we mean delays from a few days after this day, until no more than one month. It is a time beyond which no one can claim a hired person to take it off, especially with the reduced wages voted by the previous governments and you too. Is it possible for a large majority of workers, who are without collective agreements which you maintain abolished and paid at EUR 586 mixed and EUR 490 net, to be able to be unpaid for more than a few days or a month or two or three? What will PPC do if they don't pay the bill? What will you do if they don't pay the tax? Aren't you going to fine them? What if he doesn't pay HISBIA? You'll recognize him that his jobs weren't paid, that's why he's been forgiven? Gentlemen, you and the judges must be serious about their decisions. It cannot be understood that the wages paid for work provided by the worker must be borne by unthinkable arguments on which work for the workers is actually based. We call on you to accept the JRC's amendment as it stands in order to ensure that workers receive their wages. For the advertising system included in the bill, the reform of the media sector passes through the distribution of the advertising pie contained in the first chapter of the bill. The Government forms a platform with a role in the pricing of television time by laying down rules that actually favour the introduction of new players into the market. The various objections raised by parties and owners talking about unfair interference were raised, as it seems, with the legislative improvements made by the government, which obviously accepted the optional nature and not the compulsory one that was envisaged before. In fact, the Minister went further. It has also committed itself to tax exemptions for the licensed canals, because their taxation is too great. The major contours, apparently, are ahead of the major agreements. All that New Democracy says, but also the other parties, which we have heard many times, about Soviet-type bills, etc., aim to hit the achievements of socialism, to influence the formation of a reactionary conscience for the people, with false arguments of freedom, absolute control and so on. In socialism, there is neither the parasiticism of advertising, as it is today, namely the waste of resources and labour for the sake of competition in the profits of business groups. For the regional and local press, the regional and local press is the great loser all this time, newspapers - many of which are family businesses - close, workers lose their jobs. The government does not deal with these problems with the register of regional and local types that it is building and, in fact, unaware of socialist associations. To date, they have reached texts with complaints about the lack of dialogue with them. If you wanted, Minister, you could go ahead with the repayment of the State debts to the regional and local press, you would change the extermination tax, you would not implement the OECD guidelines, which have been incorporated by the previous governments, keep them and provide for the abolition of the publications, i.e. competitions, notices, which were an income for these newspapers at the end of the 1920s. In addition to this, the blockade is being strengthened, additional obstacles are being introduced, such as the barcode system. Small businesses will objectively close. People who work and work in the regional and local press are victims of a contradiction, based on current data. On the one hand, information, information is goods, large businesses are dominated by the press, on the other hand, by those who enter this market, it will work for the benefit of the powerful and at the expense of the weak. The Unions of the authors, Mr Minister, have submitted comments, six of them, which you did not take into account, such as the conversion of the seventh edition into a full newspaper, such as the reduction of the minimum number of cards to three hundred and two hundred - now with the legal improvement of four hundred and two hundred -, such as the reduction of a minimum number of pages to six and eight respectively, such as the ambiguity of the final shape of the newspaper, such as the reduction of issues of local interest from 65% to 50%, such as the certification of the owner's press status by a simple responsible statement, such as the abolition of the insurance information to be submitted by the owner to the EFCA. We all think that they will help increase the problems of regional and local press, will be at the expense of the employment of workers. For the barcode we have asked you several times, Minister, and you have not answered how this will work in the subscription papers, in those moving on the same footing. We believe that this is a regime that these newspapers will make it quite difficult for the barcode. Chapter IV has said a lot. We are voting against all of his articles, because it is a chapter that strengthens, motivates investors in this area of art and culture and the main criteria for mobilisation are economic and not cultural. There will be no job creation, as you say. Many people in art and culture have already protested strongly about this fourth chapter. It is against the abolition of the Greek Film Centre and they have already tabled statements on its staff, to play an important role and not what you have already chosen, namely that there should be the EEMO, which will play this role and will in fact be what will guide investors in this area. The draft law restores the dangerous illusion to the creators that foreign production in Greece will contribute to national cinema. The reality, however, shows that the audiovisual monopolies are calling for countries to produce films that meet two basic characteristics: Cheap skilled labour and the existence of appropriate cinematographic infrastructure. In view of all this, we are voting 'no' in principle in the draft law and are calling for the whole of the amendment we have tabled to be voted on for the payment of the wages paid to workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u184	Thank you very much Mr Katsotis. Mr Papachristopoulos, before you take the floor, Mrs Ahtsioglou would like to speak for a minute to inform her of a parliamentary amendment to the Communist Party of Greece. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u185	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister responsible answered before with regard to the acceptance of the Communist Party's amendment to its first part, namely that the non-payment of paid remuneration for a considerable period constitutes a unilaterally harmful change in working conditions. This is a regulation which is in the right direction, which is why we accept it. After all, in this context, we have also announced that at the end of August and early September we will bring in a bill - you will see, we will discuss it - a set of interventions in relation to unpaid and undeclared work. It is an arrangement that gives this possibility. What, then, is its practical consistency? It enables a worker who remains unpaid to take the view that the non-payment of his wages is equivalent to a termination of the contract of employment, that is to say, dismissal and claim legal compensation. With this regulation, the worker actually acquires a right, a way out of a situation where in many cases he remains locked up for too long in companies that do not pay him and if he did not have that right, he could not even ask for legal compensation and leave his work. However, the observation that the Ministry of Labour does nothing or monitors the phenomenon of unpaid work and washes its hands, has nothing to do with reality. I would like to remind the JRC Members that more than four hundred tripartite employees have been held in the Ministry of Labour since this government took over, most of which result in the workers' demands being met. It concerns the payment of accrued earnings, it concerns the withdrawal of redundancies. More than twenty-four million euros have been paid into employee earnings thanks to the interventions of the Labour Inspectorate. The exceptional financial allowance has been granted to hundreds of workers, while this has remained inactive in previous years and this has been given at a time when the country's financial situation is narrow. This is a set of interventions. You will also see the institutional interventions that we will bring in the next period, which aim precisely at limiting this socially important problem of unpaid work. As far as the second part of the amendment is concerned, I would like to inform the Members of the Communist Party that non-paid remuneration is already a criminal offence under an orderly 1945 law. It's a flood and there's a self-defense process. Criminal responsibility already exists. What you are adding is not the establishment of criminal liability. You add one more responsible one in this case where you say that it should be the main shareholder and the members of the board of directors of the public limited company. You add that. It's not that you're setting up criminal responsibility. That's the one. I'm saying that so the workers know there is. Therefore, you add that both the members of the board of directors or the main shareholder of an public limited liability company should be criminally liable for the non-payment of accrued remuneration. We say that this part at the moment needs further processing, because, first of all, there is no law at the moment to all shareholders or to all members of the boards of directors the obligation to pay wages. So since the primary responsibility for payment has not been established, how can we establish criminal liability? There is a need for further legal treatment. There is nothing else to do and you must not conclude politically that we are cultivating industrial arbitrary phenomena. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u186	Thank you very much to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u187	Mr President, I would like to ask a question about what the Minister said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u188	Yes, Mr. Karathanasopus. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u189	In addition to criminal liability, Minister, we also put a number of other issues in relation to fines. This is a safety test so that this phenomenon can be reduced somewhat more effectively.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u190	There are already.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u191	The fines are not as far as we know. The sanctions we put in are clearly defined, because you are talking about a flood. He talks in general and vaguely. This is where we put specific sanctions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u192	It's exactly the arrangement as it stands. That's right. What you add is the members of the board of directors and the main shareholder of the public limited liability company. The rest of the layout is as it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u193	Thank you very much. The reason is the special speaker of the Independent Greeks for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u194	Don't forget we're the last of the Moicans. It's August 3rd. The whole world is on holiday, and we are in Parliament's plenary session. I want to say a good word about the Association of Judges and Prosecutors. I was pleased to hear that they took a very good position on the subject of the condemnation of Mr George of ELSTAT. Let us say good things, that is, because there have been too many negatives in this Union lately. It was very positive that the Union said that only Greek justice was responsible for judging against what we were hearing. It's over and out. I'm closing the parentheses. I think it is my duty to remind you of a few things. It's been about two and a half years, maybe more than that since this new government. Handicap proof that this government has conflicted frontal with what I call strife and corruption is the rabies with which, even today - after two and a half years - ruthlessly, every day is hit by most private media. I think that's healthy. It shows he's fighting frontal, and that's how he's gonna have to. I still want to clear up a few issues. I'm listening to loud voices again. Everyone is judged. It is an inalienable right of opposition to choose the way it is opposed. But since this is not a technical issue, it is not a matter of some techniques that make some things, but it is purely political, I think it is worth remembering a few things again, to see how well-built the media and the media have been for many decades. I'm going back a little bit and I'm going to remind you that Andreas Papandreou went to the stand when he hurt the beastly all-powered newspapers at that time. I still want to remind you of Constantine Mitsotakis - it deserves to be heard - that at that time a almighty put a bet and said I'll shoot him. And he made it, he threw it. I would also like to remind you that Stefanos Jumakas, a PASOK MP for years - and, in my opinion, of the most clean people at that time - had gladly stated it and had written it that most ombudsmen have sectoral within the House. They're written and left. Beyond there, however, there are some fresh memories to see how well-burned the events in media were. I'm going to the referendum that's been held so long. I remember the night of the previous day when the referendum was to take place, when any news is forbidden, a specific channel, and a particular journalist with a great comfort - who no one would suffer because everything was well burned - said 'those who have at the bank 100,000 and below will get tired'. By then the news was they'd get tired of 100,000 or more. I have not seen any democrat protest. I have all these texts, because I am a European, I believe in the Eurozone, I believe in the European Union, with other rules, but I believe. So let us find a text where the propaganda then of the government is against the European Union and say 'no' to the European Union. Nowhere. 'No' he said in a specific project and he was glad to say 'yes' in the European Union. This has been distorted and prevailed that 'no' is not in the European Union. Change news that forms rules in democracy. Are we going through this? And 'yes' was 'yes' in Europe. In fact, they were also upset by foreign media. The result of the referendum, you know it. I would also like to remind you that it is not one, it is not two, but it is hundreds of examples that, when someone was being too strong, the news was not shown or passed on to the fine letter. I have said many examples to the committees. And today I heard fingers, bad guys, and so on. Can I say something? It's not just dictators. And we made mistakes and we'll do more. Should she or shouldn't she go into the TV scenery? Remind me of another recent, fresh story that I experienced on my side. We struggled with nails and teeth for one thing to become PSE. Who respects legality? Who doubted that the contest had to be made by the PSE? We had a fight. A month, two months, three months. We respected the decision of the then-accompany officer to elect a leader. We said "yes, guys, choose him, etc." Then the line changed and the PSE should not be elected. To give a parentheses here and remind the decision of the 2010 Council of State Plenary Assembly saying clearly: 'You are illegally emitting, you are illegal, you cannot continue this.' When we saw that they were blocking, that they didn't want the contest, we actually spit blood. I was inside. We had a fight. We were begging. We said to them 'you propose, say who you want'. Let me not remind you that today's president has not been proposed by this government. How much better do we intend to have and how much more committed to the rules of democracy? It wasn't going anymore. We have seen and proved, with the mandate of the Plenary Assembly of the Council of State. Shouldn't an end to this illegality, as was the plenary session of the Council of State? We weren't told by a department. We knew what we did, maybe, wasn't so legitimate. Shouldn't this regime be over? A regime which plays a decisive role in the rules of parliamentary democracy. It's not a matter of hearings, it's something that's come up with a class. Oh, no. It affects the trunk of parliamentary democracy. In fact, the Council of State meets again and says: 'Lords, you have badly done, the secretariat should not have held the competition, the PSE had to do it'. Who intervened in justice? Has this government respected this decision - not good for it - of the Council of State? And cancels the 2A. It says 'yes'. It's canceling. So he had to say, and I thank the government for that? Shouldn't we talk at all? Shouldn't we be criticising? For Christ's sake! Justice itself imposes it. When a preliminary ruling is challenged in a second or a third, what does it mean? Critics, you can do. Let's move on. No intervention. Therefore, the new decision of the Council of State is respected. 2A is cancelled, money is returned, a huge amount. Does it matter who prevented normal operation for eight months? Shouldn't the Greek citizen know who was preventing the creation of the PSE? Who? The government, however, was not blocking it. Let's go down. We hear here - it's fashionable now - for unconstitutionalism. In the previous bill, which I was rapporteur again - we are a few Members of Parliament, you know, and we run from morning to night, we do not even sleep sometimes - the issue of unconstitutionality was raised again. Last day in the Ministry of Education's bill again unconstitutional. It is fashionable for this unconstitutionality and I hear it again today. He's respected. I'm not saying anything. But we're at a time when something's going to change. I did not say that we did anything terrible, but unemployment has fallen to 21.6% and investment somewhere has started to catch up at 12% and exports are around 5%. And as far as the homes, which we did not love, we are not the ones that are going to smash the global capitalist system, the rules are imposed, we are a small country. Because many people say: 'you who found Moody' and 'Standard and Poor's'...'. Who told you we're respecting them now? The rules of the game, unfortunately, are defined by the mighty. We are a small country and even a bankrupt. That's how we picked her up. 120% of GDP had been made, for the 325 million I do not think this government, which was 3% -4% and is not, of course, responsible for the unemployment that market children knowing to work for businesses, had reached 27%, an unprecedented figure. In no country has ever done this, only in third world countries. This was done in forty years of governance. This reality we manage. But we should come to today. So a new decision comes out and we were listening three days ago, the canals had back on the tiles and said "for free the licenses", a channel also sued because it lost the "Survivor", apparently they woke up and said so much they needed and I asked them. These are crazy things. But it comes again, in its honour, to say that if you look at its composition, you will understand that it is strictly objectively unaffected. He had also criticised him - and he said so - the Minister and we because he hesitated. I think it was an insecurity that had to be overcome, not so sure, it was the first time. It's respected. But he had the talk to say that "I, for criticizing them now, see that they work properly." And he says: 245 million at the beginning. Do you think that's a small amount? We heard ten days ago that "so we'll get them for free, make an application and something like that." Didn't you hear them? I at least listened to them. One more thing. I will insist and say this. Some people said we're kicking out the workers, they're not gonna find a job. The government insists on the bill for a four hundred minimum number of employees. About two thousand eight hundred will find jobs and by predefined rules, not uncertain. Wasn't that a profit? And to say something else about the number of channels, because I've heard too much. I also heard the Minister who said 'all channels' and so on. I insist and say this about how some channels worked. I want to remind you of an incident, if it's enough for me, because I don't think about breaking it by a second. There was a channel and there is still, which was ruthlessly hitting from morning to night a certain casino. Three months later, and I also have proof of this, a competitor from the channel - he has nothing to do with the so-called'stalker', to avoid misunderstanding - went to collect the attempts to blackmail. I've got the paperwork in my hand. That's how the channels worked. Didn't you know? "ACROPOLY" of Mauritius's late boy, how many leaves did he sell? Another newspaper of a living who was getting advertising while he was taking "BIMA" and "KATHMERINI", how much did he sell? Everything was well burned! And now we fall upon the government that takes a small step. I don't think it's the last one. I have a suggestion to make. I believe that what really changes in the country has been seen in the previous health care bill. It takes a lot of heroism so you don't understand where the current goes. When four million Greeks are almost at the limit of poverty and you deny them free primary health care, you are a hero - and the meaning is - to vote against this bill! I didn't believe my eyes and ears. Can I say something else about the previous education bill? Was it wrong? Was Pavlopoulos, the current President of the Republic, endemic when he avoided bloodshed with Gregopoulou's death? You know what sirens were saying then? What I hear from the Civic Opposition today. ‘Share them’. Oh, no! Paulopoulos was justified. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr. President, can I have a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u195	Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u196	Paulopoulos was justified. What did the Gabroglou bill say? Couple of students? Yeah. I don't like to see cars burning too. But what's the right way to deal with it? Violence? Oh, no. Put them in the game. It was a divine, in my opinion, movement and remember, you will see the results. I conclude with a proposal, Minister. Because the media are very much affecting public opinion with false polls, I have asked you a topical question and I repeat it now as a proposal. I am in favour of the private initiative - I say it and I mean it - but with rules. We saw in America how the polls fell out. We saw in Brexit how the polls fell out. And I told a previous speech how Corbin managed the twenty-eight points to bring them to two. Of course, his label was the primary health, Britain’s health system. I'm closing parentheses for the previous one. I'm waiting, honestly, for the government to call the pollsters and get rules in this game. They're not two units. They fell out both in the January elections and in the September elections - which became invisible - but mainly fell out in the referendum of twenty-four units. I am well-qualified, and I say that they all had a good intention. Did they? I say they did. But don't they have to be mistaken somewhere? Shouldn't a rule come in there? Shouldn't something be done? It is a rule that affects the rules of parliamentary democracy. I don't want to say any more. I believe this bill does not solve all the problems in the media. It is a small step that he did not dare - take note - then Prokopis Pavlopoulos, who made another move at that time, with the "basic shareholder", from this party. I don't put everyone in the same bag. He's got people who are really serious they've offered to the place. But he broke his face. The beastly almighty five to six canal rulers and the sympathy with the outsides threw away the "basic shareholder" in the trash. I believe that these moves are a small one in the rules of parliamentary democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u197	Thank you, Mr. Papachristopoulos. The reason for this is the special speaker from the Union of Central and Eastern European countries, Mr Ioannis Saridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u198	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Centro Association will vote 'at first' in this bill. This is a position that justifies it, as you will see below. I shall start with this because I have listened earlier, in the debate on the health bill, with great attention, what the respected President of Parliament, Mr Voutsis, has said, about the sincere effort he is making, and which we in the Central Association recognise, to bring a smoothness and stability to the functioning of Parliament. Parliament has done so in favour of a risk that we should all recognise as a real one, and it is not one of the blows that weakening, degrading and ultimately depreciating parliamentaryism, either from the rough practices of the government or from the irresponsible criticism of the opposition. "The authority of Parliament is not a matter for one party or another. It is the responsibility of all three hundred Members in this House." The words of the President of Parliament are words that the logic behind them requires respect for them. I would therefore also like to address myself to a SYRIZA colleague who has called the Centroon Union earlier, and in particular, her President, Vassili Leventis, in the previous bill in this Chamber, to finally choose who they are. This has turned back and said from the Step by addressing the President of the Centroon Union. "Who are you with?" He came back and told him. I would like you, my dear colleague, to listen again, if you have not already heard Mr Voutsi's words and to take into account the fact that the Centro Association considers this to be extremely divisive, because it hides an extortional dilemma. You're either with us or you're with them. They divide those words from my dear colleague. The threats that are being launched in this Chamber today are sowing away from there, without any reasonable measure. The Centro Association is neither with you nor with others. The Central Association says that together we can only break the Memorandum ties without throwing us out of the euro. That's what we're saying. We're with Greece. That's what we're saying. We are with its citizens and people who understand that as long as we eat each other, we will be forced to subject ourselves to extortion. Didn't you say, every three minutes, ladies and gentlemen, that the government is blackmailing? Have you ever wondered why the government, which also supports you in your own vote, is forced to subject you to extortion? You asked your Prime Minister why he's forced to bow? If he is honest with you, he should tell you the truth that it is because of all those who divide the Greeks into camps, to the people from here and to the people from there. That is why Greece cannot stand up. On the contrary, another colleague, once again from the co-government, who said from the Stepa that she was deprived of the flag because she was a girl, that she was deprived of the right to strike, but also reacted with the one when she considered that this was what she had to do, agreed with the President of the Central Association who said that all this was fabulous. He did not seem to understand, however, that the reference made by the President of the Central Association was mainly to show the level of the debate we are having in this Chamber on such serious issues as education, such as health, as is the current bill of the Ministry of Digital Policy in which I am commenting on it immediately. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill gives us the opportunity - and I pointed it out in our discussions in the committees - to have a serious debate on four very specific ideas. The first and perhaps most important is the idea that television advertising time should be sold and purchased through a specific, public and transparent procedure that will be conducted by a manager who will be following an international competition and supervised by a regulator, which - as set out in Article 8 - will be the National Television Council. Finally, the disclosure of transactions and the automatic payment of the taxes in question are more burdensome than the mandatory use of the platform as a single transaction instrument. It is impossible to argue against the disclosure and therefore the transparency of transactions relating to a public, rare, valuable item such as television time. Following the withdrawal of the Minister to the issue of compulsory use of the platform for the execution of transactions and the abolition of the corresponding provisions of Article 3(1) and (2) and Article 4, we consider that the draft law still aims to regulate the availability of television advertising time and actually establishes the operation of an electronic system, but it will now be optional to carry out transactions through it. However, we consider it more important that all transactions which will necessarily be uploaded on the platform, which will be electronically interconnected with the Independent Public Revenue Authority, remain public. Article 8(2): This is a positive forecast that will actually strengthen the state funds. The second idea introduced by the bill is that it must finally be the responsibility of the Ministry to decide arbitrarily and without accountability which provincial newspapers are entitled to state aid and which are not. For some time now, rules, terms and conditions have been laid down for how, through specific procedures known to everyone and accessible to everyone, the state will financially support the regional press. It is very difficult to find someone from somewhere to get caught in order to ask for a minister to remain in the hands of the Minister for Public Money management without the simultaneous existence of mandatory terms and conditions. The third idea presented in Article 18 is that, in a favoured society, the true information on the readability and circulation of newspapers and magazines must be made public in a reliable manner. We must be able to know beyond all doubt that we citizens and those who are active in the advertising market, how much each newspaper sells. The problem is whether we are doing this through the application of the barcode, whether it should enter where barcode is entering or should enter somewhere else. I could not find any argument against those who stress the need for a reliable system to measure the actual sales of newspapers. I am simply not sure that with what Article 18 provides, we are covering all the possible things. The fourth part of the bill deals with the idea that we can give serious incentives to international film producers to come and do their jobs here. At the same time, he argues that we can impose strict rules with its provisions so that we do not happen to finance and authorize any work that does not respect Greece and Europe. I cannot disagree with strengthening the Greek economy by attracting international investments in the field of productive, artistic hurts. It is right to offer a discount, like all other countries claiming market share for those who come to make movies and games here. It is right, but there is a need to improve the favourable forecasts for boosting and ensuring the participation of the domestic market. The mandatory option for those who choose to invest in our country between cooperation with Greece or opening a branch in Greece, as well as the introduction of a point system for which films we agree to make it easier to make it more like they are truly reliable insurance margins. So ideas are rather good and really worth discussing and discussing. But their proposed implementation raises even more discussion. And because what we are discussing today has the dynamic of defining for many years the SME landscape in Greece, we should be extremely careful. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to be sure that I explained the reasoning of the Centro Association before coming out of this Step. The scope of the law under consideration is many and very important. That is why we cannot resort to cheap populism to conceal the need for changes in advertising space and advertising time. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] The crucial question remains on the lips of our fellow citizens and calls urgently for us to vote for their future to respond to the following. Has there been any tax evasion and waste in the advertising market? Was there black money trafficking and with a party identity in the world of television, advertising and marketing? Yes or no? Ladies and gentlemen, I have been a member of two committees of inquiry. One of these was the one who investigated the lending of the parties and tried to detect the existence of the triangle of interlocutory between banks, media and parties. So, having studied this information carefully and thoroughly, I would say, the information, the evidence, the testimony and the complaints, I can assure you that there is indeed a very great need for changes in this area of distribution and management, i.e. advertising pie. Whether or not this bill fulfils the conditions, whether this bill has been based on the right arguments and whether or not this bill can put a class in this unreasonable landscape, or whether it is simply attempting to manipulate the market, it remains to be proven from the result. The Central Association, as I said at the beginning of my introduction, will vote'representations', saying that it agrees with ideas, but fears how they are implemented, which, of course, we will not stop following it very closely and through the exercise of parliamentary control, we will try to help restore the proper functioning of the relationship between the critical sectors of advertising, paper information and international producers. We welcome the proposals of the Broadcasting Council and reserve them to be studied and placed tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u199	The special speaker from Potami, Mr. Psarianos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u200	Ladies and gentlemen, it is undeniable and undeniable that we lived in a place where there was an absolute arbitrary regime in the media, as in almost all areas of this country. In all the activities, all the services, we had corruption and interactivity phenomena and arbitraryness, a polynomiality with windows, but they were not applied, but we passed laws that we put them in the drawer or throw them off the balcony door, we opened skylights and we entered the windows. That thing we've lived through for decades. So the good God gave us a gift. He brought us the Left Government, to settle these issues, to get a turn, to get a order, to get a rationale, a fair deal on all these issues, to work relations, to insurance, to justice, to get rules into the media. I think every intelligent citizen wished this, hoped it, and gave him this gift. Through the people, of course, as it is not God who decides, the people decide. Because some of SYRIZA don't want to hear about God, and I'm not very fanatical. So that's what happened. We got it. And what do we do? On the pretext that we clean up the complexion and corruption, we press it down and we appease it, we build our own corruption and complication. We are looking to find our own canals with "mushrooms" from banks, with "mushrooms" pastures, with various arrangements and tricks, to settle this landscape, the landscape of the propaganda of the media. It is very essential for a government and indeed for a government, both at the back of its mind, or at the front of a logic and an ideal of totalitarianity. I'll say it again. Anyone who controls the means, uh, can guide, collaps, manipulate public opinion, etc. It will have the state television that will hamper the government, which the Left itself has denounced for decades the livantages of state television to those who managed power and the state. So now is the time to settle this issue, how? We said we don't want thirty channels, not forty-five or twelve. How much are we going to do? Are we gonna do two? We'll do five. No, why should we do five? Let's do three. Should we do four? Well, let's do four and four that'll be the state, ours, it's all ours. All four free, pan-Hellenic, how are we going to give them? We're going to go through a number of interesting people for a few weeks with some ranch discussing and divesting. And someone else got a channel of 20 million, another 35, another 62. I'm telling the numbers. We didn't say, those who want to give the file, how many people will be, what the channel will be, what frequency, what guarantees and what guarantee to settle the issue to get the license from the government and then, the channel is yours, work the fair, respecting the laws, respecting the state, the people, the state. In the previous discussions that took place, when this Minister of the Ministry was in the previous ministry and had taken over the contractor to settle the channels, we said that this is not a way to settle the issue, that he would swallow up, that he could not go any further. He didn't move forward, he fell down. Has the Minister changed to the other Ministry that he went to, what did he do? With the channels. It's our favorite topic. So he's going to deal with the channels. In the next ministry, which will probably be found by Mr Papapas, let us tell the Ministry about farms or tourism or shipping, the channels will again be dealt with. Why? Because we have taken it with carelessly muhammad that the issue with the channels must be settled and we cannot eat it one from the PSE - when it exists, if it exists now that it exists - the other way from the Council of State, etc. I mean, we can't do this thing, we have to take care of it. And how are we going to take care of it? Since we can't arrange which one of our people will take the channels, we'll tell which ones we're on the channels we're going to direct advertising. And since we go to legislate a law that is mandatory, with this platform and these ways, with algorithms, etc., someone calls and says, "Let's go, Nikos, seven takes you left, don't push it, let's leave this system, take it back." We take it a little back and make the mandatory law possible, that we will have a platform in which anyone who wants to participate and who doesn't want to be. It's a law, but it's not compulsory. He's optional. If we want, we come in. If we don't want to, we don't come in.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u201	Read a little!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u202	The channels are gonna be four, seven, eighteen? This is an absolute competence of the PSE. We've got the E.R.R.! He can give his opinion and say. He's not supervising. He's a regulator. It's an independent authority. It decides, regulates, doesn't supervise, as it writes in here. And Mr Moronis, at the hearing of the bodies, said 'what to supervise and how?'. The man was awkward, and he, as is awkward all of the PSE, why should he be supervising, since his role is regulatory? Canals cannot be infinite, nor did anyone say to be infinite. And if they could be infinite, let it be infinite, infinitely infinite! We have a free economy, we're not under any other regime, so that's what the market and the economy regulate. Of course, the state is a regulator, it is a referee, it is a guarantor of the system, but it is neither an entrepreneur nor a pimp, nor a pimp, nor a canalize, nor a tide. This is happening in a favoured state. An authoritarian, totalitarian state does what it likes, whether by mandatory laws or by presidential decrees or by other means and ways. We're watching them in other countries and with a few dozen dead. This story can't come out, it can't go any further. We're talking about it now. Where the Act stated that ‘the transactions through this new system are handled’, it was amended and it stipulates that ‘they may be carried out’. Where he said 'commitment to participate', he now says 'participate', if and if they want to. What do they mean? If they want, they will participate in the system and if they do not want, they will not participate. And if that's the case, why would anyone voluntarily participate? Isn't that the description?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u203	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u204	That's not the description! We will see how it is implemented, how it will swallow and how it will not go ahead. We'll be here and we'll see. In a dozen articles that had the first part of the bill, a stroller of legal improvements came in. And he did the mandatory, potential thing. And now we are going to vote on this, together with three other parts of the bill, one of which is for the regional press. We're talking about newspapers and not about brochures or sluts. We are talking about regular regional newspapers, which needs to be regulated, and we would agree to regulate it. And the missing came as the last dozen bodies, they all protested and made concrete proposals. We also said that if reasonable proposals of newspapers from the province are accepted, associations of journalists, publishers, etc., we should move on. None of them accepted. None of our proposals that I had in writing submitted to the Minister's associates were integrated and did not pass because we have other things in mind. We'll take care of it, as we know! We shouldn't even vote here. We should abstain from these procedures, and since you have a hundred and fifty three determined samurai, vote on them. Vote, wipe, you're done! What do you want with the others, the old germans? Now it's you, the fresh germans! Settle yourself for both the provincial type of the region and the barcode, for the writing code of the newspapers. Some of these things could be discussed and we told the committees how they could be justified and implemented fairly, without burdening the costs of small newspapers, etc., but doing a job in the region. There is also the fourth part for audiovisual productions. There are some who protest and disagree vertically. We don't disagree. We'd ask for that! We want Greece to be a place of production of audiovisual products and there are laws, rules, respect for the environment, legislation, labour rights, Greek films, Greek television, Greek media, Greek film and audiovisual productions. This should all be discussed in detail, discussed for months with the institutions and with the competent authorities who know and are experts in their field. Instead, we're going down a shoehole with a bill on education that's shocking, that's demolishing education and turning us back forty years, and dismantling the educational system. A health and civil media bill come a tread-frog in the turf of August to discuss them. At first, in his introduction, the Minister told us that we must quickly finish this because the House is closing down. Don't let the House close. What's the House? Cafeteria in Hive to close? Let's not hang up. Let's talk about it next week in detail, all of it. And if we don't get to the other one, and the next one. What's that? August and Fifteenth grade and stuff like that. We should stay here and discuss this in detail. We should also call on the institutions, put fans nice and talk about normal and real and human and look at them all. If you want to take a vacation, make it back in September. To remove a number of points that are black holes and to discuss the practicable fairly and rightly in cases, in the channels, how they are paid, how the advertising will go, how many workers will be. We'll talk and we'll end up. We'll find it. That's what has to be done. But it can't be done with a guy, say, management by a propaganda minister, like a few years old, Mr. Pappa, who was a Mr. Zagorianakos with the "Decision and order" and neither the Council of State said anything, nor anyone else would and would go through it and move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u205	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u206	I'm not talking about you. I say we don't look at such tricks that we can do it. Not for that Zagorianaco. There are others. There were other propaganda ministers and in other countries, with regimes of popular democracy, say, with a guarantee from the people, etc. Don't develop now and don't open such conversations, because they're a little tiresome, you know. The left struggled to leave the middle of the ideas and the burdens of a black post-war regime, to leave the logic of the dirt and the battalion, but not to bring the logic of the LAPI. We did not fight as left-wings - inside or out-of-importation - for that. We didn't fight at universities for free movement of ideas and now you can't have free movement of ideas. Because if you want to discuss the law on education, ladies and gentlemen, on the left and on the progress - or without the progress we have made - we should go to the universities to have this dialogue. You want to go? Some of us are going to the hospital, though, aren't we? It's gonna be a lot of wood. I personally will suffer multiple fractures. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Is that the free movement of ideas? Did we fight for her? Is that why we used to fight for these universities? Because something younger has gone through this very easily and quickly. But some old people ate too much wood for the free movement of ideas, which is not there now. If you go to the university, you can't speak freely, you can't talk, you can't talk, you can't argue, you can't argue, no position, on the contrary, a new position. Nothing, no dialectic is implemented, no dialogue exists in universities. There's wood, we'll "build" any professors, no concrete stones, come out from the Berchimadas and throw them out the windows. That's all we can do. Why? Because we need to settle our ideological clienteles. These are in favor of everything: ideological clientele, the people. What people? Our people, not the others. Your MPs have said that "that is what you germans will pay for, you will not pay for it," the old German germans. Young people don't pay. I would like to say this: dozens of operators one afternoon for four minutes each made comments and additions and proposals. They've all been ignored. Apart from this draft law in the four parts we are discussing, some amendments by all the ministries have been tabled for once again, for a hundred years. Two hundred amendments, three hundred amendments, seven hundred amendments? I would like to ask the President-in-Office whether he is prepared to give us an answer on this matter. "Let's go back now." 'Today we close and quickly vote on them'. Comrades and comrades, I do not want to read now what each amendment contains. It is from the sexual behavior of the colepters to the regulation of the space wheels of the Greek satellites. We cannot take these packages out and discuss them simultaneously with three very serious bills in five days, because Parliament is closing down. Don't let the House close, comrades. To discuss them in detail and to consult stakeholders, to present their comments, amend ments, improvements to articles and topics, to discuss this and really to come to an end together and consensually. Anyway, we're all germans now! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u207	Thank you. With Mr Psariano, the circle of rapporteurs and speakers has been completed. Give me half a minute to agree on how to organise our conversation by about twelve, as we have planned. There are some twenty-three colleagues on the list. Two Members of Parliament have spoken, Mr Javarras and Mrs Zarulia.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u208	Mrs. Zaroulia and Mr. Javarras.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u209	We'll start with the list. The first two Members will speak, then Mr. Javarras, then two MPs, and then Mrs. Zarulia.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u210	No, Mr. President. It's not like that. You weren't the President-in-Office before.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u211	Don't react, Mrs. Zaroulia. Why are you reacting?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u212	I said first.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u213	I'll explain. I understand your reaction to what it is, but to tell you this: Mr Kaklamanis has asked the Bureau to bring the image of the Members who would like to speak this evening. Mr. Javarras said, as you said. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u214	No, it's not like that. I said first.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u215	Let me finish. In the Minutes this is written. Apart from asking Members to say who wants to talk about tonight, Mr Kaklamanis said that there should be consultation between parliamentarians who might talk about who wants to be promoted or not. We are obliged to do so on the basis of the parliamentary order. If Mr. Javarras wants to give you the position to go after...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u216	No one gives me their place!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u217	...I have no objections. That is a matter for the parliamentary representatives. I am obliged - I am very sorry - to give the floor to two Members, then to one parliament and to go two - two - one. By the way, I will say that, as I calculate the time, if they are kept with a very minimum tolerance, we can close this evening with Mr Katsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u218	Mr President, it is not the way you have said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u219	What do you mean? You have the floor to listen. Tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u220	When the bill started, Mr. Javaras wasn't even in the Chamber. He came after. I went to the Chair, to Mr Kaklamanis and said to me: 'Whoever says first or in accordance with parliamentary power'. Since Mr. Loverdos left, I don't think that's the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u221	Mr. Loverdos has said about tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u222	Do you understand? That was the understanding. Maybe the clerk next door...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u223	Mr. Loverdo now why are you interfering with him?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u224	I'm sorry. Let me tell you why. Because if we were to go with parliamentary power, I would accept it, because that is how Mr Kaklamanis told me, and the lady who sits next to you can confirm that I said first. No one gives me their place.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u225	What I said just before in the Chamber, to the Members, is what has been said and what has been recorded in the Minutes. I have to work...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u226	What has been recorded in the Minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u227	But this has been recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u228	What? That the Parliamentary Representative said first...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u229	That Mr Kaklamanis asked Parliamentary Groups to state which Members of Parliament want the series to speak this evening, if not with parliamentary power. And if there is consultation between the parliamentary representatives, then change the order. I therefore have to ask Mr Javarra to speak first on the basis of parliamentary power and second on you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u230	Oh, good. Okay. No, you don't have to.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u231	If Mr. Javarras gives you his place and he'll go to yours, it's another matter. Here's Mr. Javaras. If you want to be okay. Otherwise we will start with the two Members, the parliamentary representative, two other Members and the second parliamentarian will speak. Is there going to be a deal? Bring the image to the Bureau, consult and say it. Mr. Darkness has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u232	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today in plenary session of the Greek Parliament we are discussing a draft law on Greek data. It is a bill that annoys those who perceive it, but it also disturbs those who are probably unaware of its importance. Four are the main axes of this bill. First, the implementation since September 2018 of the electronic system for the allocation of television time - advertising - with arrangements that are of a direct financial nature, because they aim, among other things, to combat tax evasion. It will finally operate a platform that will be designed, developed and implemented so that through it the purchase and sale of advertising time to both public and private broadcasters can be carried out. They must therefore involve public and private broadcasters from national and regional broadcasters, as well as advertisers, i.e. broadcasters, that is to say, television advertising broadcasters on behalf of advertisers. It is important that a regulator of the platform will be the National Broadcasting Council, which today also guarantees the proper functioning of the platform. Finally, and this is important from there, the Independent Public Revenue Authority will be able to obtain all the information it needs to have full documentation of what this implies. Who's this bothering? All in light, therefore, with this innovative system for the disposal of television advertising time where the content, terms, implementation and winding-up of advertising time transactions are very clear. A precise determination of the taxable material is achieved and tax evasion is thus avoided. Enhance the transparency of financial transactions, ensure the conditions and conditions for the financial survival of television broadcasters by directly collecting and winding up the distribution of television advertising time. The distortions of the advertising market with the practices of returns, credit notes and late payments are being fought. It is typical of what is happening in particular in the television area where you can work today and today’s piece of money to collect it after two years. Because then the advertisers will give the money to the commercials. The advertising companies will be late to give it to the channel. The channel gets it, does all the other jobs, and when it gets out, two years later, the director, actor, journalist, scriptist will be paid. Secondly, it is very important that the barcode, the linear code in the daily and periodic format, should be recorded in order to record the movement of the forms. So it stops a very old pathogen of the media field, because it is known to all of us that there is no officially recorded information. There's only some information estimates from the agencies that share the papers. Sometimes some agencies also have newspapers, so you understand how honest it may be. It's invaluable the way the agencies use, so arbitrarily, to give the releases. They are arbitrarily carried out without any control on the methodology followed and without any scientific guarantee, and of course give a hold of complaints about the manipulation of the advertising market by large companies to the detriment of the small and weak in this unfair competition. The third axis is to amend the law on the regional press. This legislative initiative now creates a register of regional and local press and modernises the monitoring of newspapers entitled to publish public notices and notices. It is now an electronic check, with absolute objectivity and transparency, and stops any relationship of political leadership and local actors, MPs, regional and mayors, with regional press operations. So, then, a newspaper does not need to sneeze anyone to get what they are entitled to, that is, the announcements and declarations of public procurement. Fourthly - and, in my view, most importantly - it is the measures to strengthen audiovisual production in our country through the EMEA. The vast majority of European countries have adopted a series of investment incentives which aim to develop domestic audiovisual production by attracting investment funds and especially foreigners. We, on the other hand, did not receive anything in 2011, but received a negative landscape, because in 2011 by decision of the then Minister, Mr. Mosailou of PASOK, they were transferred, abolished, the Institute of Audiovisual Instruments and the National Audiovisual Archive at ERT. With the substantial abolition of these two bodies, Greece remained the only country in Europe where at least public policy and audiovisual research bodies did not exist. The result of your destructive policies was to drive the specialized staff of the Institute and the Archive initially into reserve and then dismissal. Energy acquaintance and your very beloved. Thus, the state lost an important consultant - take note - in the formulation of national audiovisual policy, while the territory of the Greek governments was lost to influence the content of the directive on the whole of the European Union, the audiovisual media services and Greece lost Community funds on research and education in audiovisual education. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. The Government of SYRIZA with Law No.4339/2015 established the EMEA in order to fill the gaps in the audiovisual market. Thus, the Ministry of Digital Policy as a supervising body of the EMCDDA makes use of the provisions of the Investment Law to support public and private initiatives of domestic and foreign producers in all areas of audiovisual media, such as cinema, television, documentary, animation, video games. There was a question why the Minister of Culture did not sign this bill. It's changed the scenery. A new landscape has been created with these modern tools. It's a few decades behind this approach, but it's okay. We can't all know everything. Be careful, the new law does not come to help develop the cinema alone, but the whole audiovisual production, as I said, television series, animations, video games, documentary and another great new world that emerges within the digital universe.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u233	Mr. Wormhole, please, you're finishing up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u234	I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of my speech I talked about a bill of incision in Greek. Finally, it is not just an incision, but it is a radical reform that makes our country attractive to investment and the audiovisual sector that you have so easily deceived in previous years with your policies. So I invite you as a minimum sign of regret to vote on this bill because you too understand that it is a bill expressing the modern era and responding to the modern needs with the tools of a new and constantly evolving reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u235	Next speaker, Mr Varvitsiotis, from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u236	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I can only say that I admire the way in which SYRIZA colleagues change their views so easily. The law - cut-off, which made transparency in advertising through compulsory participation in television time auctions - has changed and made tendering optional, only the recording of advertising expenditure is compulsory, yet it remains a cut for them. I don't understand. I really don't understand. Minister, I told the committee that I would congratulate you on changing the law. I must congratulate you and tell you that since last year's Constitutional Law you have seriously increased your performance. Last year you got zero. This year you got excellent because you did accept all objections to the anti-constitutional article on compulsory...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u237	Voluntary compliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u238	Wait. He got excellent. Flag, however, can't bear, because he has to be lucky too. He can't be a signifier. Only the lucky one can. So his colleague on education, who was probably a lottery, was in his place, because only he could be in that position and do that, can he take the flag.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u239	Only you could say about Mr. Gavroglou that thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u240	Anyway. You've changed your mind. Come on, you've changed your mind. But you said to the committee, but you say now and you're not ashamed! You're not ashamed! Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u241	You're not ashamed of yourself. Am I ashamed?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u242	Please. Learn to listen at last.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u243	Only you have the stature to talk about Gavroglou like that!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u244	Listen and accept what you were lying to. You told the committee that compulsory participation in tenders is constitutional and your colleagues came to support the constitutionality of the opinion and today, which the government withdraws, you have no word to say. Three meetings have taken place on this subject. Your Minister taught you. Aren't you gonna know? I do, however, really wonder, Mr Ministers, and you should be wondering who is advising you. You must also consider him on constitutional issues, because you have been led into multiple purposes. I'm happy and really welcome your change to him. But I want to tell you something because I have heard too much about advertising here. I heard cords. The JRC told us that you don't even need television advertising, that the world is fine and that you don't need to eat work hours in advertising. Of course, in Soviet society, you only had propaganda, you didn't have advertising, so you don't have any such issues. Are you aware, ladies and gentlemen, that television advertising is the most overtaxed product in the country today? It touches 60% of the bill's cost. Do we want to have receipts from the channels of 60% tax on television advertising? Do you think this will lead us anywhere? As many conditions of transparency as you can record and do. I think that is something you need to consider very seriously. I am going, Mr President, to the issues relating to production in the country and the cash rebate, that is to say, the return to those who do not come and make television and cinema productions in our country. I believe that the system you are creating, which you give a 20% refund rather than 25%, because only 80% of the costs are eligible, so that the refund is reduced accordingly, it puts the country in a treaty of international competition. I have sat down and seen the model that has worked best throughout the planet and is Ireland's model. Ireland made two years ago a law on returns to television production. He became a champion today. He's got 32% back. 90% gives it right away and 10% of the return gives it after considering the documents. It can finance and integrate a production value of up to EUR 70 million. Today he's a champion. Analogous examples are all the neighbouring countries, such as Skopje, the Balkan countries, Croatia which even got the next "Mama mia" from Greece. It will not return to Greece, it will not return to Greece, but to Croatia's island, on the Dalmatic Coast. As with Jason Bourne, which, while showing Syntagma Square, did not go back to Syntagma Square, was returned to Tenerife. We have lost too much of these productions. I will present to you, Minister, the Irish model - which is simple and much more functional than what you are bringing - which is in the right direction and I think if they adopt it, there will be a lot for your partners to see. [[At this point the Member, Mr Miltiadis Varvitsiotis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Finally, you and many colleagues in SYRIZA have been accustomed to giving us lessons about how to make opposition. You have now learned that you will teach us how to make opposition. It is certain that we will not make the opposition you, the opposition of the sidewalk, to come in and adopt the opposite things. But I would also like to give you some advice, Minister. I know you're a close associate of the Prime Minister. In the next election with one person, you will go forward, only with the Prime Minister's face. Your ministers have popularity, which do not take the basis, and your policy is on the other hand at the foot of what you said you would do. You have no popular support from your policy. All you'll sell is the Prime Minister's face. But you force him to come to the House every day and cover all your failures. In the end, you'll make him empty sack. You brought him here to cover the illegal, unlawful actions of Mr Kammenos. Has he apologized himself? Mr. Tsipras has spoken of him. You brought him to the House today to speak of the extremely irrational abolition of excellence in the institution of the signifier and of the ideological project. So how's Mr. Tsipras coming to talk? Which audience at the end? Those who favour legal order? To those who respect values? Who's he gonna talk to? I think he's finally not gonna talk to anyone. Of course, the absence of Mr Kammenos from such a debate is a pretext. We saw him hang out with Hawaiian shirts on Florida's coast, accompanied by businessmen. However, we did not hear a word from the Independent Greeks, who were just told that they would drop the government if the Archbishop wanted it. Today they come and say that it is an act of progressive abolition of excellence in the case of the signifier. I think, Minister, that your government, unfortunately, as it stands, will reach the end of the elections and will seek the original voters at the initial percentages of SYRIZA, when he was barely in the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u245	Mr. Varvichiotis, you're finishing up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u246	With this kind of smuggling of the image of the Prime Minister, the only asset you have - as he once said about Mr Varoufakis - I think you will not go anywhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u247	Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy Mr Constantine Javarra has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u248	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like from the step of this House to denounce today's attack on the Chief of Officerial Representation by the members of the now known Raviks group. It is, indeed, one of those situations where their systematic repetition and persistence in questioning the democratic conquests of a people do not allow us to be disobedient. In fact, what I want you to know, because we are all responsible in this Chamber, is that the content of the slogans they flew is a further derailment, it is a qualitative development in the messages that this group sends towards democracy now. "No respect in the Yafka of the Parliament", today they trembled outside the house of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the Chief of Officerial Response, the fourth in a series of state actors, based on the Constitution. The question is: Where will tolerance be reached against such phenomena? Do you feel within you that you have a democratic responsibility towards the parliamentary institutions and, above all, against the mandate given to us by the Greek people to represent him in this Chamber, which, for the last time, I repeat, is being exercised in a true, but also symbolic way, popular sovereignty? Here we have tolerated, and indeed with the protection of the powers of the state, behaviours which have directly put against Parliament. Now, we have a further improvement in this undemocratic behaviour, this attitude that it considers indulgence, indifference, indifference, lawlessness to be the individual and right of man. Ruviks, after all, I would like to remind you that it is the name of a small and insignificant river in the north of Rome. As a river, it had no meaning and no meaning. What remains in history is that it was foreseen as a border between the legality that was expelled from respect for Roman democracy and those who wanted to overthrow it. That is why it was, by decision of the Senate, the last limit beyond which any general would not be allowed to cross against his troops, with the Roman legions. Once this happened, in 49 B.C.E., Julius Caesar did so and since then the process of decomposition and destruction of Roman democracy began, the civil war began, which ended in 31 or 34 B.C.E. Naval battle on the Coast. And I ask: This symbolism do you feel the responsibility of administering it? From naming phenomena of undermining, challenging, but also from confrontation now on against the institutions of the civil society, do you feel the obligation, at last, that these phenomena should be wrapped up, refused, separate your position, put a limit between you and them? Because if you do not set a limit, if in the end you do not feel like representatives of democracy and the state that a Ruvik separates you from these phenomena, then very quickly this democracy that we live today and enjoy will begin to weep, just as it is in Venezuela. Because today, the UN General Council on Human Rights condemns this Latin American people's democracy and supports it internationally, for a state that does not respect human rights and makes extreme doubts and bloody violations of individual freedoms. So, Minister, this last penitentiary, this last border to the diversion, has said it very nicely, and today I think it bridges it with today's debate here, George Seferis, our great nobelist poet, at the "Last station". What a coincidence! So there, it says that the place is growing all the earthy tree. Unfortunately, Parliament's democracy has been slowly becoming more and more insensitive when you, as Minister of State, appear before us, bringing to the vote a law which you have tabled so far has been a different text. Because if anyone reads Article 1 there about the purpose of this bill, it will see that your purpose when you brought it to Parliament was to have the exclusive disposal of electronic advertising through this electronic platform, to such an extent that anyone who does not participate in this system would be at risk of making the transaction that he does invalid. After the conversion, however, the bill changed. What you said 'compulsory electronic disposition' has been made an electronic recording. So tell me, these two regulations, these two institutions, are they the same? To give it to you even more tangible, more eminently, I will tell you: I am pleased that today we will vote on a law which in his explanatory statement contains a different argument for its acceptance than the one that is actually expelled from the verbal wording, the change that you have made in the contents of his orders. I can inform you that many of the law-enforcementers refer to the explanatory statement to see what the legislature was to make the regulation, what the political choice is on the basis of all legal regulations. But you, however, see you as rude and unscrupulous. You do not fall down, because this piece of legislation that will be signed, but it will say in its explanatory statement and others will set out. Something else, after that, there's another good reason. This particular bill has been left without regulators. Because your aim was to check the grey areas presented by the media in terms of making television advertising time - and that is what you had decided to do in an exclusive way - no longer required anyone to do that. So in what sense should the state have a burden which will not benefit and serve the purpose for which you initially brought it to the vote? Now I just think that all that makes you insist and not withdraw the first chapter of the bill is your conviction that you do not feel that you have been defeated. But these in republics have no value. The bravery is equal in the completely different direction, you should bravely come to this Step and say "yes, I was touched by what the scientific board's report says, I was touched by the representative here from the anti-population camps" and then to your honor you would be a true, true democrat minister, who, when he realizes that the opposite argument is valid, adopts it. Besides, in the world we live in, in the democracy that we serve, the greatest coercion must come from the best argument. So you did it because you could not do it any differently, because you are before the doors to suffer another defeat in the Council of State, but you do not confess. Not only do you confess to it, but you hide it in detail and in detail, by putting the applicable provisions which will come to light in order to have compulsory registration and registration of contracts and transactions, for which there is not just the principle of freedom of contracts, but also the principle of the formality of contracts. But there is also the beginning of the contract informality. Article 158 of the Civil Code establishes that. The conventions are informal, and you impose them in a way that binds the will of the parties and therefore insults the autonomy of the private will - and this is unconstitutional again - you are obliging them to go to a constituent, and there for the voidity of their contract and their transaction to record something for which, of course, no one can be interested. Because this is a matter for private transactions. You will allow me, Mr President, to address two issues. The first issue on the bill is that there are huge gaps that you have not taken care of. At first you spoke that only a legal person can become an administrator. There, of course, would the question be reasonable: Natural persons cannot be subject to rights and obligations? Indeed, it seems that by a better reading you have led to the idea of this very irregularity and you bring a new subparagraph to Article 2(9), which says that this legal person who will become the manager will be founded by the most representative bodies of advertisers, advertisers and television organizations. So, you're obliging some who don't want to, you're forcing them to make a contract for the establishment of a legal person? This is a coercion, which is not only allowed by the Constitution, but also, in essence, by trade and markets and freedoms, which we must all serve, they consider that this is incompatible, completely foreign to all the cultures that exist in trade and to all the definitions of the Constitution. So how do you hide it? If anyone doesn't want to go to the point, what's going to happen? If no one wants to go, how will you oblige him? So this manager who, I repeat, under the conditions and conditions of your first plan, would have emerged in an international competition. Now it does not appear at all, by any means, there it is written somewhere and no one knows how this system will be implemented. As far as an amendment, which the JRC tabled, ladies and gentlemen, is concerned, there is a law still in force since the year 1920 and that is No 2112/1920. This law has almost been the protection of workers for over a hundred years. It is true that the provision of Article 7 provides that the unilateral change in the terms of work constitutes a termination of the contract. This is the maximum protection against the arbitrary nature of the employer. Why? Because any change in every contract, such as the contract of employment, is a new agreement, Article 61 of the Civil Code. So the one who unilaterally changes the terms of the agreement can only be regarded as denouncing the contract. The question arises as follows: Is the delay in the payment of accruals a condition of the contract? Of course not. A change in the terms of work would be if the employer were arbitrarily to say "Agreement 2 000, but from now on I am going to give you 1,000, no agreements". This is indeed called a harmful change in the terms of work. Now, as far as the wording of this specific provision is concerned, of course, I do not doubt that it is trying and making an effort, too, by the Minister, who I have heard, to better protect the interests of the weakest party, which is the worker, in the employment contract. However, here, if you insist - in fact, because this particular wording cannot have a scientific value as it is - at least write what the Marios Ice has said in a very important decision, on 447/2015, that it is indeed a one-sided change in the terms of work, when this delay in the payment of entrepreneurs occurs in order to provoke or force the worker to resign or leave work. Then, in fact, it is on the part of the employer that the contract of employment is being terminated and I think that the scientific view expressed and the intention of the legislator in this case to protect the weak part of the contract of employment is somewhat balanced. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u249	Mr. Javarra, this is not a matter of tolerance. You are a parliamentary representative and you also know that you are entitled to protology, denology, etc. You've spent sixteen and a half minutes and you've got up to twenty-one minutes the rest, maybe tomorrow. Ms. Big Economics, Independent MEP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u250	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, before I begin my position on today's bill, I would like to refer to the draw on the signifier. I was impressed by the fact that we abolish the reward for the excellent man and make a draw for the signifier. We're playing a gambling game now. With this in mind, aren't we abolishing Pan-Hellenics and ASAP? It'll be a lot easier for the public. I got another thought. We can also abolish the parliamentary elections. Now the prime minister can go out on a draw. We do not need to look for the most worthy, the most competent or the Members. I think it'll cost the public much less if they come out with a draw. A draw could well be held by the OPAP and the Prime Minister and the Members of Parliament should also come out with a draw. The OPCW will do it properly, electronically, and the draw will not be called into question. So we'll have a double profit. We'll bet on who's going to be Prime Minister, who's going to get parliamentarians, like TZOKER, and the public will save money, and everything's going to be fine. We won't have any trouble. That's how we're done, I think we're all gonna agree and we're not gonna have any problem. I'm coming to the bill now. We have arrived this year, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the parliamentary term, and we have seen that several bills have been passed during this period which has caused strong reactions to Greek society. Unfortunately, we have reached the last bill we are discussing today, which does not agree with me and which is extremely problematic, because it raises issues of substance in the society. I'm clarifying what I mean. First of all, the first chapter on the electronic system and the provision of television advertising time is an anachronistic and extremely dangerous attempt at full control of the advertising market. At this point I must admit that television advertising is a chapter that does indeed need to be regulated and cannot remain the same until now. However, putting specific terms on a market is far from what we are living today. Because today's bill does not just lay rules and limits on the way television advertising is made, but seeks to check fully and fully where advertising money is going and how they are to be shared. However, such a practice, Minister, finds me completely opposite. There is absolutely no sense behind your particular choice, apart from the obvious intention of there being a direct governmental choice and knowledge of television money. However, what is provided for in this chapter is in direct conflict with the principle of economic freedom, the freedom to negotiate the parties and the freedom of contracts, which are fully guaranteed by Greek and European legislation. We are, in fact, talking about a bill that directly offends the principle of a free economy. Because of course it is not a free economy in which the state will have chosen an algorithm for how much money and how much TV time a advertiser will buy. It is completely unacceptable that no one can choose freely and on their own criteria for trade. Therefore, the entire conception behind the electronic system of television advertising time is completely distorting and morbid. This chapter should be withdrawn immediately. In addition to the overall problematic regulation at the core of this chapter, the bill also contains several provisions which in themselves raise questions and questions. For example, Article 4 provides that if a transaction for advertising time takes place outside the system, the result will be the nullity of the transaction. I would ask you, Minister: if an advertisement has already been played on television, what nullity are you talking about? Since he's already played? Similarly, will it not have a reasonable claim for the television channel to pay the price for the time it has played in advertising? Therefore, the regulation will have no real meaning. Similarly, it is not specified anywhere in the bill whether the arrangements concern only television advertising or product placement within a broadcast, especially in our time when this is the most popular form of indirect advertising. I ask you again: should there not be a different algorithm in these cases? In addition, the system operator referred to in Article 7 may not have any economic or other direct or indirect interest in participating undertakings. However, the provision is quite vague and vague, since the manager will obviously be a company. Therefore, it should be foreseen that the shareholders and members of the board of directors of the company that will be the manager should not have financial interests in a participating company. As far as the second chapter on the establishment of a Regional Local Press Register is concerned, so far as the field of the regional press was completely regulated, they received public advertising and notices, too many publications, which not only met the conditions, but were in fact companies set at minimum cost, just to make money in this way. I therefore consider it very right to have a register, where newspapers will be registered when they have specific quality characteristics. However, there are objections here too. For example, I ask you: How exactly will a newspaper be checked if it is printed in a printer or a photocopier, which is not allowed? Because I consider that there are such cases of newspapers operating at the expense of serious professionals in the area and, unfortunately, you have not anticipated an appropriate control mechanism for these cases. Finally, I would like to close my speech with a few comments on the institutional framework for strengthening the production of audiovisual works in Greece. Indeed, all of us have been shouting for too long that any change will only come to Greece through real investment that will bring growth. This seems to be what the bill does, as it provides for funding for those firms that will seriously choose to carry out an audiovisual work in our country, such as a film, a series, a documentary, etc. But I also have some very serious reservations in this part. First of all, we read in the special report that EUR 450 million will be allocated for the years 2017-2022, that is to say, an inappropriate sum for Greece of extreme austerity. However, it is not specified in the bill at all whether or not the Evaluation Committee, which will decide who will receive the relevant financial assistance, will also be able to judge the quality characteristics of the creation to be financed. That is to say, whether it is sufficient to check legality alone, not to say that it is a worthwhile task.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u251	Ms. Big Housekeeper, please, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u252	Wait a minute, Mr. President. It's the important point. I also stress that the greatest problem in Greece, as you know, is bureaucracy. It will therefore be a great bet for all the competent bodies to comply with the strict conditions to convince the prospective investors that we are, at last, a serious country with serious state mechanisms. Overall, the bill attempts to show that it includes progressive arrangements, when in reality, especially in the part of television advertising, it reminds of other periods and other types of regimes. It should finally be understood that the free economy is not negotiable. In every attempt to curb it, it will produce disastrous results in the country as a whole. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u253	Mr Georgiadis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u254	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the ancient Greeks have had a proverb, I think it is extremely appropriate for this particular case: “He has given me a taste.” You've been preparing this super platform since last year. It's almost funny, that is, it would be really funny to read what SYRIZA colleagues were saying about the super platform at the first meeting of the committee, when the platform was still compulsory, before they knew you'd do the big turn, where your bill was actually over there. Because we all understand that what you have finally brought - I will not say the word what is actually - is something of no importance. So insignificant, coming to think: 'But why does this man in the summer enter August, we, as the Prime Minister said, seven - eight times for baths, have to vote today on this bill? What is this so urgent that this bill can be passed today?" Actually, Minister, I'm really trying to figure out if you're smart or wicked. Because while you're smart and look intelligent, you screwed up. Let's go get them a little bit, shall we? You are the very person from your Government who has contact with the Venezuelan Government. Don't move your head. Journey took him with a luxurious aircraft on a special island with the Venezuelan ministers with Maduro next door. The excellency. As is going, in a moment, who has a picture of Venezuela's status in Europe and in America will not be able to be released. You know that yesterday the European Union did not get sanctions against Venezuela because you vetoed. I'm not saying you as a Pope, I'm saying as a government of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u255	As a metropolitan.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u256	Don't laugh, because you know there's people dying, Mr. Darkness. Today, Maduro's favorite announced that he would close in prison those on twitter wrote comments against him.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u257	Here to see what you guys have done. Here to see how many people have died.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u258	Please, Mr President, keep the order. After I was thinking that if you got any ideas from Maduro, I'd be three years old. When you started this bill, I wrote you a tweet, that's Soviet. I still remember those of your supporters who came underneath being inclined to be the favorite of the canalarchs. I wonder, those who devoured me as a favourite of canalarchs, what do they think of the turn that you have obviously made in favour of canalarchs? But I will say in favour of logic, because the truth is that the original bill was an nonsense and that idea of the mandatory platform. Let's finish this here so we don't waste our time. Tomorrow you will make electronic platform at the supermarket, tomorrow online platform at bookshops, tomorrow online platform somewhere else. In the logic that we need to control tax evasion, you'll make an electronic platform at all. You don't have a measure. You understood, however, because slowly, as you get the parliamentary compensation and start working in power, from the original picture of the siege without a tie that enters the House, you have your rapporteur who is a fine man. This makes the difference slowly, as soon as the gear of power begins to change. Here Mr. Christoforides, the close associate you took him and traveled and has turned half the texture with you for free, with the Greek State, when he hit the memorandum and the lenders, had made special references to English law. See what Christophorides said and "Honni", children, about English Law. You can't imagine. Now English law was good. Now English Law is good for paying us free trips to New Guinea and elsewhere with the Memorandum Money. Now we're going to the point. You've messed up a lot on television. This is where I want to stand, because this is serious. You made a competition yesterday. It's known where the competition ended. Let's not come back. He ended up where he ended up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u259	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u260	That's where I'm going, don't worry. What are you swarming as your success? The really high - I will say outrageously high - price you have achieved. I'm a fair man. If they asked me if I would give them, I would say 'no', because I am generally a man of reason and I cannot understand it when unreasonable things are done. I've been on TV for 20 years. There's not that money. The reason why a businessman decides to give this money because I work in Greece, I can't understand it. However, on television this money doesn't come out, that's all for sure. The Fiasco contest you made last year, however, committed the PSE to this price and the PSE made the 35 million. Yes, sir. You told the second committee that you thought very seriously about making tax exemptions on canalarchs. Yes, sir. Now see the problem what it is: Since you set the price as a criterion, in fact only the zapluts can get television channel. Not the rich. The Zambluts. But be careful now. You're supposed to be left, that you're in favour of pluralism, freedom of speech. Is it really, Minister, the only price for the TV price? Can you believe it? I guess you believe it, because you only provide...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u261	You haven't read the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u262	Not the law. I see the result. Only Zambluts in SYRIZA era can take TV, channel. Mr. Christoforides used to say that the briefing must be free to everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u263	It's...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u264	No, it's not. You have to have 35 million to get a TV license, and if you do it in three instalments, it means not the rich one, but the junior one.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u265	It's ten.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u266	Is it ten? Wait a minute. We've got the news. Guys, this is ten-man's decision, and it's been played by us so hard a time with three. I agree, ten. Listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u267	But I can't...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u268	Don't interrupt me. You'll get the floor later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u269	Minister, are you now having a dialogue?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u270	If the gentleman allows...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u271	All right. All right. Allow me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u272	You weren't in the Chamber. There was an intense conversation with Mr. Loverdos. I would like to ask you before coming down from this Step and tell us whether the New Democracy will vote for them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u273	I answered you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u274	Mr Georgiadis, continue, but I would ask you very much to complete it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u275	Wait a minute. I will not abuse it, even though I am very pleased with the debate with Mr Pappas. I return to the main argument: Zambluts can get a TV license on SYRIZA, for the first time on the Left. Mr. Leventis had been called, not a spabluto. Mr. Kouris, your friend. He's not dizzy. So the old regime, the anarchist you were saying, allowed democracy and pluralism to function. But now, with the SYRIZA regime, only the zapluts can. "First time left"! I'm very curious to see where this competition ends. I'm really very curious. If you do good tax exemptions, maybe it'll come out, because otherwise 35 million is out of TV reality and you know it. Besides, your main argument used to be that the street, the market, has four channels. Now on the seven channels with the same licence price? So, with your basic argument, it doesn't come out with what you said last year, unless you forgot about it. I'm closing up with my report to the ERT. You rebuild the ERT. You hire thousands of people. You're not telling me, Mr. Pappa, are you proud of ERT? You who are responsible, Minister, are you proud? Here's what's left of the ERT over the past two years: an afternoon zone that's constantly abusing the Anti-Population and making a vulgar propaganda for SYRIZA. No. BBC isn't, you were saying, BBC of Pakistan isn't. You have made news reports that have a viewing less than the local station "KODRA", you said before. You should go out to Papagiannis rather than go out to the "ERT". You have left as the only model of the era in the "ERT" a monument of workers outside for the dead "ERT". Okay, that's to laugh about. I can't believe you allowed that ridiculousness. From this monument it was left in the ancient Greek saying of Artemis Sourra,...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u276	Mr. Georgiadis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u277	...for which I remind you, you probably know, that this "OHOH HOH HOH HI" that they have placed in the monument in "ERT", is fake. Artemis Soras has taken it out of his mind and you have put it in the public building of "ERT" as a monument. What's the matter with you? You, the Minister! You let POPER put it. The only thing left of this story was the voices of Mrs. Rachel Makri for the traitors - for you he was referring to - when he cut her out in a rude way, the truth is - but what he does, I understand it at that time - the art of resignation, Mr. Chucknis. That is what you have done for the ERT. Not a hole in the water, because it's cost us some millions that we're paying for.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u278	Mr. Georgiadis, I think that's enough. Please come to an end.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u279	Are you proud, Mr. Pappa, to have screwed up?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u280	Mr. Georgiadis, can you hear me?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u281	And for Venezuela, don't think you'll get away with a smile, because obviously some strong ties tie you up so you don't see the victims.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u282	Mr Georgiadis, respect the next speakers and that we should close the procedure for tonight. You're gonna make me turn off the microphone and I don't want it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u283	If you don't see the dead, some strong ties tie you to Venezuela, Mr. Pappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u284	Mr Zaroulia, Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u285	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u286	There's no personal, Mr. Darkness.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u287	Mr President, on personal occasions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u288	There's no personal, Mr. Darkness.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u289	Mr President, my name has been mentioned and it has also been linked to the dead. Please give me the floor for a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u290	No reports have been made personally. There's no staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u291	No, no. There is, Mr President. How isn't there? My name was mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u292	Come on, Mrs. Zaroulia.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u293	Then, then. I've been given the floor. May I, Mr President, speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u294	Mr President, this is unacceptable. I wait till after I take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u295	May I speak, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u296	You have the floor, Mrs. Zaroulia.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u297	This draft law is being introduced into Parliament's yacht - to use the language of your own children - for a debate at a time when only accidentally cannot be considered. If we leave aside the formal procedural part, then we will find that the essence of the whole debate is more to do with a communication type of new account of convergence than with the restructuring of the Greek media landscape on the basis of equal treatment and the free movement of ideas. However, the Opposition and generally the media-paid voices raise issues regardless of the subject they have nothing to offer in the whole debate. But what I shall refer to next is to show that the conflict between government and opposition on the background of mass information is clear about their control and manipulation. SYRIZA's special rapporteur even confirmed what we said when, during his first position on the draft law, he referred to: - I am conveying to you by saying: - "Great and small business and journalistic interests". If there are such things, then why doesn't he make them public and simply confine themselves to a general and vague reference? Because the aim of the memorandum and much more of a government that owes its power to journalists applause for its anti-grass policy is not simply to eradicate them, but rather to serve them on better terms in order to obtain the maximum possible political benefits. A lot has been heard in this Chamber. If there is something that the Greek people, who are following this debate, have gained, then this is the excess of courage with which self-determination defenders of democracy speak with so much comfort for the end of immunity, for the strengthening of pluralism, for the protection of democracy and other things that no one has to do with reality. For example, when SYRIZA refers to a democratic deficit, is this about the absolute fall of the country's third political force or those instruments that disagree with its policy? When, for example, it talks about restoring order in the information field, this is also about giving time to a parliamentary party that openly expresses its opposition to the memorials or exclusion, so that it is the only counterpart to any public controversy that is to do with who it applies more quickly and more effectively to narcotic memorial measures? In the end, is the war proclaimed by SYRIZA in the mid-century establishment essentially of war against objective information and, secondly, against opposition, which, in turn, has retired its own controllable means to damage his image and degrade his policy? Undoubtedly, yes. Moreover, the objections of the New Democracy are not about safeguarding pluralism, as is hypocritical, but about establishing it in the media in order to exaggerate its alleged disagreement against government policy as an alternative to its return to power, and this is a permanent position since the age of pimps. SYRIZA argues that the purpose of the government and its philosophy in the light of a draft law is to ensure transparency. It is enough to look at the recent events on the market for four television licences to see that sales between interested parties only in terms of transparency have not been made. Each of the funds at his disposal finally got a piece of television pie so that he would then be forced to return it because the Council of State declared the whole process illegal and unconstitutional. However, even today, you are insisting on a failed recipe, expressing ignorance of the recent past and indifference to the way in which you have attempted to gain control of the media without making any mention of a final judicial decision because it exposes you irreparably. The public interest, to which you refer, has nothing to do with the manipulation of the media, nor with the number of television licences, nor with the distribution of advertising time, and with the least important provisions of your bill, but with the free movement of ideas, which you are proud to be suppressed when even within the Greek Parliament refuse to choose with Members of the Golden Dawn just because you disagree with them. One may say that refusing dialogue with the Golden Dawn is an act of defending democracy, since it is supposed to be directed against it with attitudes that do not suit parliamentary customs and customs. You say this to yourself who have turned mud, pseudo and slander into a new custom at the expense of a party elected by the people supported by half a million voters. In the mud and slander campaign you have unleashed since the Golden Dawn entered the Greek Parliament, who are you present in addition to the other parties? The media! The mass media, which reproduce your mud, who show without apologies your slanders, who systematically and continuously perpetuate the only antimony voice in this country. How accidental is it that, regardless of the government and Prime Minister, the Golden Dawn is always brought by the systemic media of mass information, where the planned television time is never given to defend the honor of the Chief, MPs, executives and voters? Since SYRIZA is supposed to have obtained a pluralist status for the country, can you tell me even a journalist who has expressed openly in favour of Golden Dawn, unlike the collusive party submissives who have appointed right and left to applaud and defend your anti-grassy policies? This question, of course, also concerns the New Democracy, which has nowadays experienced signs and monsters in the field of information and advertising. The President-in-Office of the Council has never wondered why public anti-constitutional intervention in controlled circles of justice by the former Prime Minister and current member of his party has disappeared from all the media. We should also imagine that the sound Samaras, the Baltaku video, the Athanasios confessions for intervention in the work of justice for the ruthless persecution of the Golden Dawn were silenced by all media not because the New Democracy controlled a percentage of them, but because there was no good reason to cancel the profile of the former Memorandum Prime Minister, who, on the one hand, voted on the memorials and, on the other hand, protected political opponents because they were voting on it. For the complaints of journalists who at that time received personal calls from Samaras himself, who asked or commanded not to reproduce the above indulgences, does the New Democracy have anything to say to us, or will it once again be consumed in a sterile controversy on the eyes of the world by posing innocent? That is why I mentioned earlier that the objections and protests of the Civilian opposition are purely pretexts. I would like to refer here to the issue raised by the National Broadcasting Council. We are in favour of setting up a truly independent authority to perform its role unaffected, non-discriminatory, political intervention and without obstacles. The sloppy situation in the information field has so far attracted everyone, because, in the absence of a regulatory body, the defendant could arbitrarily exclude from the public dialogue elected representatives of the nation, those of the Golden Dawn. The system of sanctions aimed at the bill should be strict and bring back to order all those who violate the law. How can you guarantee this when in the debates that preceded the 'ERT' and the preventive censorship that it imposed against the Golden Dawn, all you did not do was applaud the perpetrator of this flagrant violation of the Constitution? How many government officials and MPs have protested about the disarmament of the most basic right in a democracy, that of the free movement of ideas and freedom of speech? What did I do with 'democratic arc' when even the live transmissions of the speech of the Chief of Golden Dawn were banned, with the pretext of strike mobilisations of the party subordinates assigned to the left-wing 'ERT'? No legislative initiative has been taken on the above major violations that effectively abolish democratic institutions. You have just all accepted the fact that a civil servant is superior to the Constitution and that he is at his discretion to decide, without any control, who will speak publicly, what he will say and whether his views should be freely transferred to the people without interference and censorship. But let us return to the bill. The structure and funds that make up it are governed by a spirit of vagueness defended by the SYRIZA rapporteurs, replacing the arguments with wishes and accusations to the previous governments. If the parties that ruled the country are responsible for the information mess, then the present government that reached power in the autumn of 2015 also bears responsibility. Assuming that SYRIZA would have fought for two whole years with the great interests, then two things could have arisen: Or he would have multiplied his percentage, because of the support that the Greek people would have shown, which undoubtedly wants a government away from toys of interlocutory, or had collapsed at the expense of the revelations about the ethno-progressive and memorial policy that it pursues in critical areas, such as education, national defence, the economy and others. Instead, we see, however, that the more SYRIZA fulfils the successive Memorandum of Understanding, the more favourable it has from the media. You see that I avoid referring to the individual issues provided for in the draft law. I could do this if I thought the whole debate had something to do with it, and since the government showed that it was aiming to combat the conflict and to implement all the other provisions proposed in terms of transparency. However, I have already shown that this is not the case and we are therefore voting against the draft law, denouncing the hypocrisy of a government using the same anti-democratic methods as the previous one, to manipulate public opinion and prepare it to accept without any protest what it has undertaken to implement against the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u298	Mr Marios Katsis has the floor from SYRIZA, the last speaker for tonight.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u299	Thank you, Mr President. I see a relief for the last speaker. First of all, I should like to respond - on the occasion - to what has already been said, in particular by the Vice-President of the New Democracy, Mr Georgiadis. I would like to ask him to begin to reconcile with the idea of the platform and its use, because he will understand how mandatory it is, as teleshopping is included in the recording of television advertising time. So as an entrepreneur now and not as Vice-President of the New Democracy, he will understand how mandatory the platform is. That's first. Two. I am directly accusing you of a political 'government'. Bottom line! I'm sorry, you're abdicating us because we are responding to our role, because in the legislative process, in the process of discussing the bill, in the committees and in the plenary, we are taking the necessary steps to bring about convergence. I really do wonder why you do not say that the necessary steps are taken, that transparency is guaranteed and that, yes, we are in favour of the bill. What you are most interested in is to say that 'no, we do nothing'. But neither does the other. I'll tell you why. Words like 'forced', said by Mr Javarras, 'difficulty' or 'why do you put them in this process?' What do they mean? They hide, in my view, under the carpet, diligently, that you are not being cut for transparency. On the contrary. You don't recognize that there's use of a public good some who win from it with ads. You must finally, since no one in this Chamber has an answer to the question of how much this advertising pie is, you must understand that such a procedure and such a legislature respond to that question. So I think it's undeniable to have this incision. Since the previous ones have been heard, I would like to say that it is one of the times that I feel happy, because, as a Parliament, we are doing our institutional role just as it should be, namely many bills, full ownership of the bills - mottos on our part. Because it is at the core of our parallel programme to strengthen health, education without class barriers and ideological conflict with Antipoliticism, which ultimately crystallises our differences and the different political perception that governs us, what you are presenting, that we are two different worlds. Yeah, that's obviously on the surface. I always wish, and let it be a dala summer, to come to the surface, so that people know who we are addressing and who we represent. I'm coming to the bill now. It is a bill which has been discussed in detail - as I have said earlier - and fertile to the committees, in the presence of a number of bodies and, indeed, of any shifts and shocks and that is very useful. This draft law on one side concerns the key area of public life, the information sector. Freedom of press and pluralism in information are organic elements of social control and reflect our level of democracy. Unfortunately, in our country, citizens' confidence in the media has been seriously shaken. As the 2016 Eurobarometer figures show, the citizens at 74% do not trust them in our country. The reason why our fellow citizens have this view is, in my opinion, obvious. I think it is the same way of operating the entire SME area, as what characterizes this area is the absence of a strong regulatory framework in procedures that ensure equal rules and transparency, this absence that in the neoliberal language is called a small and flexible state. It is this absence that created the right ground to transform the news into a trade product between business interests and political chairs. But the world has eyes and eyes. He sees entrepreneurs who had not paid a single euro for public frequencies for twenty-eight years. By 2015, of course, since so far we have received EUR 90 million. Today we are in a new phase. The necessary steps have been taken and we do not need to remind you for once that the first piece of legislation that we made in 2015, with L.4339, included a competitive process by the PSE. We do not need to apologise for you, while you did not recommend an EPP, and you did not contribute to setting up an EPP, because we should not have implemented a law adopted by the Greek Parliament because you are the ones who are blocking it. It was self-evident. For the first time alone, we have taken responsibility. We have also laid down sustainability criteria which, suddenly, you start and you call on them and say that thirty-five are many. Should we go back to four? I mean, we're going crazy. In fact, I don't know how one can have a rational political dialogue with you to know where to answer. In any case, however, the world saw an unconnected loan from the banks to the media, which the Greek people recapitalised with their money and sacrifices. He saw circuits of blackmailed journalists and publishers blackmailing AKOs to receive great advertising or to feed civil protection, at the corresponding natural price. This government has both the debt and the will to put a definitive end to all this. This draft law is in the right direction. With the creation of an electronic television advertising system, but also with the regulation of the rules for the regional press, it will be lighting the distortions and shadows and practices of the advertising market. Disposal transactions by television stations will be reflected in the new system. Also, there will be light on these gray zones that had established the former regime with the returns and agreements under the table. This is how tax evasion is effectively tackled, the practice of returns and credit notes, as I have told you, of late payments, which have been heard in committee for up to a year, but also the requirements for the provision of very high credits on the part of television organizations. Impossible transactions, then, end of story. We are establishing the special marking of the barcode, which you again smiling that you have probably made a mistake, but you do not have the political stature and the courage to say that, yes, we are now voting in plenary. Do it! We take the necessary steps for the shocks. For the specific marking of the barcode compulsory for all printed magazines and newspapers, a clear picture of the actual circulation of these publications will be provided so that advertising pie can be shared more fairly and more transparently. I don't think there's any discussion about whether we should have a clear illustration of the real traffic between newspapers and magazines. Any technical details I think will come from ministerial decisions. I call on the Minister, through consultation, when they are issued properly. With regard to setting up a register, which also plays a huge role in the proper and prompt briefing of local societies, for us the presence of the local press, but also the support it needs to have are data. That is why we have moved on to strict compliance with the payment quota for public advertising expenditure with 70% for the means of the whole of Greece and 50% for the means of the region. So far, the regional press has not collected any of these amounts. There are, unfortunately, great pathogens in the regional press too, which hamper the proper functioning and damage its credibility. In this context, because many things have been heard in the committees - and we respect this parliamentary debate - we call on the Minister to accept tomorrow a parliamentary amendment that we tabled - after consulting the Members and a cross-party consensus, in my opinion, with colleagues from New Democracy and opposition in general, working in the regional press - on changing the agenda, and indeed some legislative improvements that ensure this process. We call on the Minister, even late, to accept it so that the maximum possible consensus can be reached, as we have done so far.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u300	Mr. Katsi, you'll have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u301	I shall conclude, Mr President. As I was saying, tight hindrance, with the local authority and the dependence on state advertising through declarations and entries, but also the diabetic control by the political leadership of which newspaper meets the criteria of the law on access to these amounts, create an opaque framework that primarily affects information. At this point, I would like to say that the official position of the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis is in favour of abolishing the declarations, because it is a para-third-party tax, as the lenders asked. But you do not reveal your program openly. Unless I make a mistake about your position, colleagues in the New Democracy, and if you disprove me, I shall immediately withdraw. But we have ensured this by 2021, and we will fight for the regional press again to see who is being cut off for him. I'm hanging up. With this draft law, we have the establishment of an institutional framework for strengthening audiovisual producers to finally take advantage of the great comparative advantages of our country. We move on to a new extroverted national identity with multiplier benefits for the Greek economy. Attracting funds from abroad for audiovisual production by providing incentives will create new jobs, improve the image of our country and strengthen growth and tourism. At the same time, the new institutional framework will also give way to domestic production, which can develop and innovate. Ladies and gentlemen, the time to act has come. Now's the chance to put clean rules. Now is the opportunity to release information from the bonds of business and political interests and move on to innovative proposals. Society expects us to move decisively. Let's not let her down. I call on all of Parliament's wings to decide to vote in favour of the bill by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u302	Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Thursday 15 June 2017, Thursday 22 June 2017, Friday 23 June 2017 and Monday 26 June 2017 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u303	The minutes of Thursday 15 June 2017, Thursday 22 June 2017, Friday 23 June 2017 and Monday 26 June 2017 were therefore validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S2-commons.u304	With the agreement of the House at 0.27' the meeting for Friday, August 4, 2017, at 10.00, on the subject of the House's work: continuing discussion and voting at the outset, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information: "Electronic system for the disposal of television advertising time, amendment of Law 3548/2007, establishment of a register of regional and local press, special marking of a bar code in printed publications, creation of an institutional framework for strengthening the production of audiovisual works in Greece and other provisions".
