ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Resolution at the outset, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development: 'Exit settlement mechanism for corporate debt'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u3	The meeting is only for the vote, but the President of the Civilian Operations is asking for the floor. Please say something, and I'll probably say it too...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u5	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u6	There is no 'no'. Don't give up on that. Last night, there were inadmissible things here!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u7	Please, Mr. Loverdo...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u8	What happened last night was unacceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u9	Mr. Loverdo, this is over last night. Understand, Mr. Loverdos?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u10	No, it's not over. Take the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u11	Please, you don't have the floor and you won't get the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u12	I'll take the floor because I'm entitled to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u13	You're not entitled to take the floor. Today there will only be a vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u14	I'm entitled to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u15	You know you're not entitled. You also know that Parliament's Chamber cannot be constantly in such a situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u16	You can't turn off the microphones when the MPs talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u17	You're welcome, Mr. Loverdo. Mr. Mitsotakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, yesterday at 10 a.m. I visited you and gave you a six-page letter detailing the problematic way in which the Greek Parliament is legislating. I have particularly focused on the question of tabling late amendments, whether parliamentary or ministerial, without any approval from the General Accounting Office of the State, which are accepted, without any explanation, by the relevant ministers. Half an hour later, you personally went to the parliamentary authors and agreed that there is indeed a question with the tabling of late amendments. One hour after a SYRIZA MEP tabled the same amendment that had been tabled a year ago, which is accepted half an hour after the State Secretary responsible and at night by the relevant Minister, without any explanation at all. I will not dwell on the content of the amendment, although it obviously raises many questions, because at the moment there are smuggling fines, what is the burden on the General Accounting Office of the State...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u19	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u20	...why, anyway, this amendment...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u21	Just a minute, Mr. Mitsotakis. Please sit down. Mr. Gabroglou, Mr. Papadopoulos, sit down please. There's a process going on. Sit down and be quiet. Go on, Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u22	So there are many questions why this amendment is accepted without any explanation from the government at all. Mr President, I call on you to protect Parliament's authority. I urge you to ask the government, since the Prime Minister himself does not take the initiative to withdraw the amendment, to do so with your encouragement. It is not possible to continue this situation any longer, ladies and gentlemen. It is unacceptable that what is happening today in the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u23	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u24	If you cannot behave with a sense of duty, at least do not hide the authoritarianism of those who are urgent to become a regime. Mr President, protect Parliament's authority. I would ask you to put yourself here today in the Chamber for all the things I complained about yesterday. Finally, I call on the Government and Prime Minister personally to either withdraw the amendment or provide sufficient explanations to whom this provision relates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u25	I would like to say straight away that yesterday the Minister responsible gave a clear explanation of what he thinks is absolutely true in relation to this amendment and on the basis of what he accepts it. These are recorded in the Minutes, and also recorded in the Minutes is the whole process last night, which was not the best possible in terms of climate. The meeting was closed last night. It has also closed with a statement from the President-in-Office, Mr Cremastino, who has done the procedure perfectly. Mr Cremastino then made a statement, because there was a misunderstanding about "closed-not closed" by MPs who had gone to the journalists. This procedure has been formally concluded, therefore. Obviously, because this is a political issue posed by the Chief of Staff, the Prime Minister has the floor as a political issue and not as a procedural issue to deal with it. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u26	And a point of order, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u27	As to the point of order...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u28	It wasn't a point of order. Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u29	Please, Mr. Xydakis, you don't have the floor. Mr President, as far as the procedure is concerned, the responsibility lies with the Bureau of this House. We're on it. I'll take it personally. Your objections were recorded as well as your criticism. I'm taking it into consideration. Thank you. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u30	Mr President, I will take the floor not so much on what Mr Mitsotakis said a moment ago - and on that of course - but on what he has in public since yesterday, with his visit to you, he says about the functioning of Parliament. Of course, I am not more years than you, Mr Mitsotakis, in this House, but we have lived together, from these chairs, the parliamentary procedure since 2009. We have experience and we know. Above all, we lived together with the governance of Mr Samaras, who, as Prime Minister, had not come to the House to answer one question. No one! No one, not just the Chief of Antipopulation. It was a fast track process, spray, wipe, finish, with dozens of legislative acts. We don't forget that. It was dozens of legislative acts. You've broken all the records! So are you talking about amendments now? Is this House and the Greek people forget about the nightly amendments you were giving immunity to the bankers who decided on your maritime loans? Is the Greek people and this House forget about those amendments with which you have been extinguished the debts of businessmen from fines? Are we forgetting this? Do we forget about them? [[Laughing and applause in the Chamber]] Give it up! Give it up!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u31	Be quiet. Mr. Georgiades!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u32	Mr. Georgiades, sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u33	Mr. Georgiades! Mr. Georgiades!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u34	Mr. Georgiadis, this is not a studio for teleshopping. This is the House. There's rules here! [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Here's rules, Mr. Georgiades! It's not a teleshopping studio!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u35	Excuse me, Prime Minister. Mr Georgiadis, firstly nothing is written in the Minutes. Secondly, I have pointed out to you that we are not talking here any different from what is imposed by the debate. And you understand what I mean: the native and that style. Don't repeat it, please too. I'm telling you personally. You don't deserve it. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u36	I now come to the point raised by Mr Mitsotakis. So, to close this debate, the parliamentary function does not always say that it is impossible, no one says that we should not all try to improve it. I personally would like the ministers to always be here to answer the questions. I personally, whenever I can and whenever I'm not out, I'm in questions from all the Chiefs. He has never asked me a question, Chief of Party, and I will not come here to answer, Mr Mitsotakis. You can receive information from both the Bureau of Parliament and from the procedures as they have evolved over the past two years. However, I would like to say, Mr Mitsotakis, that when there is a matter of substance, there is no point in putting matters on the table. Yesterday during the debate on the extrajudicial compromise, a very critical law which I think could also be a very substantial debate even on improvements, there was a parliamentary amendment accepted by the Minister. What does this parliamentary amendment say, which was accepted by the Minister? It says something that you should have first welcomed, because you are supposed to be cutting off on entrepreneurship, investment and want to invest in Greece to get jobs. So why are you taking the floor today in breach of the Rules of Procedure? Because when there is a procedure - as you know very well - for a roll-call vote, you do not have the right to take the floor. But the President of Parliament did well and gave the floor. So why do you refuse to discuss the substance? So I challenge you here to discuss the substance and not the procedure. If you have the courage to discuss the substance and not the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u37	You tell us what the point is. Let the Minister tell us what the point is.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u38	Mr President, it is clear that Mr Mitsotakis and his resignation have been on a permanent verdant since 7 April when the political agreement has, in spite of them, been concluded. Now the technical agreement is being closed and the country is coming out of this storm and this wave of bankruptcy that you have led all over the last few years with the pillaging of national wealth. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Your embarrassment and anxiety are obvious. Having nothing else to do, having nothing else to say, you come here and you create matters on the procedure, but avoid talking about the substance. I have said many times in this Chamber that when the second assessment is closed and the possibility of terrorism is stopped, it will be possible to say that the disaster is coming and the catastrophe will become graphic, and you who are constantly calling for elections will be graphic. Today it turns out that you are both handwriting in the parliamentary procedure, blocking the procedure and not in the substance. So I challenge you to speak on the substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u39	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u40	Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u41	Firstly, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the way Parliament operates is not a question of procedure. And the evidence I've submitted is absolutely catalytic. No one claimed that in previous governments Parliament's way of operating was exemplary. However, you have exceeded every limit and these elements are not questioned. This is also about you and the President of Parliament. So we are now coming to the essence of the amendment. But you have not spoken, Mr Tsipras, about the substance of the amendment. If this amendment was really intended to protect investors who acquire the assets of the Greek State, why does it come as a parliamentary amendment to a MEP Kosanis? Why doesn't the Minister bring it himself? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And why the same amendment...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u42	Be quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u43	What does that matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u44	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u45	I therefore propose a compromise, which I imagine will satisfy the Members of the House too. You will withdraw the amendment. Besides, it's not urgent. That's what I imagine your Minister will tell you. Isn't that right? It's a loose end that's been going back for many years. You will be tabling it again as a ministerial amendment with Report by the General Accounting Office of the State, as imposed by the Constitution! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And we will come to discuss the substance. You will explain to us, since you want to talk about the substance, whether this amendment relates to a specific investment that has been made. And if we really consider that in this way we must protect the investor's interests and there is the necessary transparency, we are here to discuss everything. If you do not do this, Mr Tsipras, and you are undermining the way Parliament operates, but there are also self-evident questions about who is behind this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u46	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u47	Mr President, I had a question, but now I understand. The concern of Mr Mitsotakis is that this amendment was tabled by a Member and not by a Minister. And I don't know if his problem is that the MP is from Kosani. Rather, his problem is to underestimate the role of the Member and the parliamentary procedure, believing that Members do not have a role in this Parliament and should not table amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u48	Be quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u49	The second thing I understand, Mr President, is that Mr Mitsotakis has regretted and wants to vote in favour of the amendment because he understands that the parliamentary game for impressions is good, but tomorrow he will also come out of the Chamber and when he goes to meet the workers in danger of being fired, because some people...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u50	Who are they? Tell us, who are they?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u51	In a lot of business.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u52	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u53	When he goes to meet his own MPs, who understand that there can be no laws and rules in that country and that there can be no competition in that country and that investors can come and fines - and not fines - are charged - regarding... [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] ...management of previous administrations - because this is not the case in any favoured country of the European Union - then it will find it difficult not to defend its position within Parliament. I am very sorry, but today it turns out what I have said: The New Democracy, a party that has been ruling the place for many years, is gradually transforming into a protest party which has only to say 'elections, elections, elections and elections to come to power', without a proposal, without a position, without responsibility for the future of the country. And, of course, this can be legitimate for a party that wants to attract discontent, wants to attract and fish in the cloudy waters of the extreme right with extreme right-wings and lips, but it cannot be useful for either the place of use or a party that wants to be governed. It can be about 3% and 5% parties, not you, Mr Mitsotakis. So I'm sorry about your behaviour! I would ask, Mr President, that the procedure be carried out in normal manner and that all their responsibilities be taken into account, all the parties and all the Members of Parliament. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And some Members of the New Democracy may not vote, but what to do, Mr Mitsotakis, is the parliamentary procedure!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u54	Stop for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u55	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u56	Mr. Mitsotakis, please, because they want to talk to others in charge of the parties...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u57	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u58	Start with a minute. The President of the Independent Greeks Mr Kammenos, Mr Loverdos, Mr Amyras and Mr Karathanasopoulos will then be given the floor, and we will then be going for a vote. Here, Mr. Mitsotakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u59	When, Mr Tsipras, you spoke for the first time as Prime Minister of this Step, you closed your speech with emotion, saying that you are every word of the Constitution. Does the Constitution, Mr Tsipras, stipulate that no amendment can be accepted without a report from the General Accounting Office of the State, yes or no? Answer me now! Now answer whether the Constitution and the Rules of Parliament define it. Answer instead of hiding! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Respond instead of hiding in this unacceptable way! And anyway, tell us...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u60	Be quiet, please. Mr. Polakis, Minister, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u61	Okay. And because it was clear - you said it at the edge of your speech - that this arrangement is about a specific business, why don't you say it? Who is she? Who is the undertaking to which this arrangement relates? Why are you playing hideout? Is this operation in Kosani? I'm asking you. Is he in Kozani? Not even the MEP whose constituency the operation is the company had the courage to table the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u62	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u63	I would ask you, then, once again - and I ask the opposition parties to agree to this proposal - that if we really want to make progress at the level of parliamentary dialogue, you have nothing but to withdraw the amendment, to re-submit it by a Report from the General Accounting Office and to come here to explain in detail who this amendment relates to. Because otherwise I'm sorry, Mr. Tsipras, but you're in charge twice. You are accountable for the fact that, on the one hand, you are undermining the parliamentary procedure with your personal responsibility and you are accountable for letting shadows hang on to graceful regulations and debt write-offs from smugglers who raise very reasonable questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u64	Thank you. Mr. Kammenos, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u65	Mr President, I would not take the floor, but I am truly surprised by the position of the Civilian opposition. And because it's a small world, I'd say to the Chief of Officerial Response to ask the MPs of the New Democracy, who begged Mr. Savvidis in 2013 to take the EKAs... [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] Why don't you ask Mr. Kedicoglou, who was begging back then, and he promised...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u66	Please, no calls!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u67	Why don't you ask the Members of the New Democracy of Macedonia and Thrace who would ask Mr. Savvidis to enter and invest in someone not to close? Why don't you ask what the government and the New Democracy promised then? I'll tell you, 'cause I remember. He had promised not only the deletion of the old fines of the old administration - and quite rightly - but he had already promised that the machinery of new equipment, which had been blocked in customs, would come out without any obligation to pay a fine. And they deceived them. And he is now coming to table a roll-call vote on what he did not do when he was in the government. And what's the result? Since then, thirty-five million investments have been made. The Greek State received 309,000 euros in taxes, 89,000 euros in 2015. And what we are saying even more as Independent Greeks is this: we will bring an amendment where new investments and new investors enter into companies that close down or go to the closure and make people lose their jobs, invest money like those that went in, only 24 million increase in share capital, in addition to investments, with a return on the Greek public sector, of course, and it must be institutionalised to delete the fines of the older administrations. Do we expect to bring investments here, when anyone who invests will have to pay the old sins of the old administration? Is that how they're going to get money in Greece? I am sorry to say this and to close with this: I am very afraid that, as is the attitude - unfortunately - of some MEPs who are trying to block the process of ending evaluation within the European Parliament, doing anti-nationals, doing the same here, trying to hit any investment, even the only one you have brought, by kissing peeping aprons then to the investor, Mr Savvidis. Let them open their mouths and speak then.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u68	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u69	Third half PAO - PAOK did it! Serious procedure!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u70	Mrs. Canelle, please. Be quiet. Mrs Kanelle, unfortunately yesterday, there was no need for a third half or an extension. Unfortunately, I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u71	Helped suicide doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u72	Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor. I would ask you to put yourself on the substance of your resignation and do not raise any further issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u73	Mr President, it is a good debate on the functioning of the House and on the application of the Rules of Procedure and necessary and necessary, but that is not what we are dealing with today. Today we have come here with another specific issue, much more specific and very serious. The first issue, the expert we faced yesterday all day long, is that we had a very strong, strong debate on an 'introduction', an amendment of shame, graceful, which Parliament was talking about outside the corridors, which the debate on the same amendment a year ago here again made clear who it was about. The Minister responsible yesterday, Mr Papadimitriou, but also the Member who proposed did not know that they did not. Today the Prime Minister comes to speak of the risk of dismissal of certain officials - he knows the Prime Minister - and to take responsibility himself for this regulation, which was put by a Member of Parliament to bring the government to accept it. Mr Kammens - most sincerely - said that it was 'CECAP' and that investment. In other words, the Prime Minister and the Head of the second ruling party said that the amendment is a photo. Congratulations! This raises a very serious issue, however, which is also about the constitutionality of this regulation, but also about the way the government thinks and creates suspicions of corruption, in other words, favourable conditions for certain investments relating to media, which are related to many, Mr President, which will take place in the next few weeks. However, while the debate on this issue yesterday showed that it could be closed, another subject was raised, on which, Mr President, you must take initiatives. While the meeting was going to close and the President-in-Office began to say that the meeting was closed, he then gave me the floor, because I told him that I wanted something before the meeting was closed and, your official, a special secretary of Parliament, and in a parliamentary way, committed a number of infringements concerning the functioning of the Parliament, but, unfortunately, also a number of infringements concerning specific aspects of the Penal Code, such as the disturbance of a parliamentary party in Parliament, by closing the microphones. Mr President, this is unprecedented. If you want Maduro methods to go to Venezuela. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA and ANEL wings]] But here, you are obliged - and with this I am closing down - you are obliged to this man who has appointed a Special Secretary of the House to take all those institutional initiatives relating to the functioning of the House, to the operation of the House in general, to the agency of the officials of the Parliament and to the Criminal Code. If you don't do that, you're co-responsible for the misfortune that took place last night.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u74	Mr Leventis, before you take the floor, I would like to say something because it is important for some things to be answered in substance. Mr. Loverdo, I attended all yesterday's session in all its details from the beginning to the end. I am aware of both the minutes and the statements made by the President-in-Office, who well respected the process, as did Mr. Bored and then Mr. Cremastino. The sitting was closed - twice as the President-in-Office has said - and, when the sitting is closed, the microphones are closed and the channel is closed and we all object, perhaps for the next time. Not only do I accept what you say as a cause for the Special Secretary of the House, but I repeat that I am fully responsible for the whole process, as it was last night. You should know that. We've been publicly explained. You have put your objections right and I fully answer you on my behalf. Mr President, Mr Leventis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u75	Mr President, Mr President of the Government, Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry to see that at a time when modesty and consensus were needed, this exacerbation is also being promoted in society. In a few days' time we will call upon society to take measures. How are we supposed to call her? With this divided House? By banging half the other half and leaving implied? In the meantime, there is an amendment that makes sense yesterday. What logic? That a guy who took a business and didn't know any debts, how would he be charged with fines? It makes sense. Who will decide which undertaking in this logic, in this beneficial law? Who's gonna decide? You need to explain yourself. Because, otherwise, in this Chamber, suspicions and more - leave the Chamber to society. The law is unclear, as I read it. He says that one, if he does not know any debts, would be relieved of debts. Who's gonna relieve him? Court of Justice? Minister? Prime Minister? The House? Who's gonna relieve him? We open a window, a very bad window, in this House. [[Applause from the centre of the Union of Centres]] Moreover, the most important thing I'm afraid of is that in ten days you will invite us to vote for measures that mortgage Greece, which also concern our grandchildren. With this break, will we vote on these measures, Prime Minister and Mr Mitsotakis? That's all I had to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u76	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-six students and students and four educational attendants from Serbia, hosted by the American College Pierce. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Parliamentary Representative of the JRC, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. We have followed a very revealing debate and an exchange of views between the Prime Minister and the President of the Police Department. You are fighting for the interests of businessmen, for who serves them better, when both the New Democracy as government and SYRIZA today as government break their workers and their rights. With the speech of the President of the ANLEs, you open the portal of Halos and we warn you about it. You have the same policy, you have the same practice, you follow the same parliamentary procedure: with urgent bills, legislative acts, scandalous and photographic amendments. How much you look like! That is why all we have to say is that the workers, the people's layers, must draw their conclusions very quickly.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u78	Thank you very much. Mr Amyras, the Parliamentary Representative of the River, has the floor, and then we will close with the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u79	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u80	Please very much, there has been no discussion.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u81	You can't give me the floor. There has been a point of order and you cannot give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u82	Mr. Teddy, please very much. The Presidents are present. The President of the New Democracy spoke three times, Mr Leventis spoke, Mr Kammenos spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u83	It's a point of order, Mr. President. It's the right of every Member of Parliament. You'll give me a minute to develop it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u84	Let me tell you that there is a point of order here alone. The fact that I gave the right - in my view, because dialogue and substance play the role - and the meeting has been closed in every sense. Understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u85	That's good. Now it's done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u86	You got it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u87	It's good, in my opinion. You can't come back and say we're not talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u88	Mr. Dendia, everything we can talk about is as long as it's argument. So when we talk about it with arguments, we can talk about it all. Alas! And don't raise the tons.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u89	I don't raise them, I don't have a microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u90	Okay, that's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u91	I just serve your hearing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u92	Thank you so much! Mr. Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u93	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the substance was raised by a question asked by the Prime Minister. He said: 'Have you forgotten the night amendments, with which fines were deleted from smuggling?' We haven't forgotten, Prime Minister. That's exactly what you did yesterday, I mean your government majority. Because you have brought in a parliamentary amendment which deletes fines from smuggling to a company.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u94	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u95	No fine shall be deleted. You're lying!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u96	The problem is, Mr. Kammens was revealing. He told us what company this is about, and what businessman. But you didn't tell us two things, Mr. Kammenos. First of all, what are we talking about? Because some SYRIZA MPs out in the hallway last night talked to us about fines worth EUR 38 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u97	Names, tell us. Names you know how to say?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u98	Please stop. Do you want me to call you back to class? Mr. Amyra, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u99	So one issue is that. What you accuse others of doing the same and worse. The second question, therefore, is the procedure. Last night, during the debate on this issue of the amendment, Parliament's microphones were closed by the official of this House and the live link to the Parliament's channel was automatically cut. As is the case now, the ERT has cut off the transmission. Anyway, I don't care that much about that. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] But let me talk. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, stop.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u101	I conclude with this. If we want to become Barcelona, you need to change your way of dealing with and approaching parliamentary procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the Educational Programme of the "World Republic" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, eighteen students and apprentices and two educational attendants from the 3rd Old Faliro Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Dendias has the floor for a minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u103	Thank you very much, Mr President. There is this question, which has arisen from the position of the President of the Independent Greeks. Mr President, it is a well-established principle of the constitutional law of this country, but also of any advanced country on this planet, possibly with the exception of the countries of Central Africa - to which we are inclined to produce legislative work - that the provisions which are photographic, that is to say, are not a constitutional one. We insisted yesterday and asked both the State Secretary and the Minister responsible to explain to us what this provision relates to. Both Ministers and the Prime Minister today have given no explanation about this provision. It was necessary for Mr Panos Kammenos to speak before the Greek Parliament that this provision relates to one case, one company and one investor. That provision becomes absolutely photographic. That is the first unconstitutionality. Second unconstitutionalism: Article 75 of the Constitution clearly stipulates that there cannot be a proposal for a law or a proposal by a Member, which creates a burden on the budget or a loss of revenue from a legal person, etc., if not accompanied - please read it - by a report from the General Accounting Office of the State. Therefore, for two reasons, the first prestigious, and the second sufficient, this proposal is completely unconstitutional. I therefore raise an issue of unconstitutionality and ask for this Rule to be applied.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u104	Mr President, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u105	Mr President, Mr Kammene, you want to give a clarification. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u106	Mr. Dendias is probably confused. I said that an investment was made by your own government. I did not say that this amendment relates to a business.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u107	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u108	And I ask: should tomorrow not the new investor not take the fines of today's owner? How do you expect investment to take place? And secondly, there's a big difference. It is not about deletion, as was done at night with your own amendments. These fines concern the owner, who committed the crime of smuggling. And neither the criminal is erased nor the civil war erased! Deletes aren't now. During other times they were going to be! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Of course it concerns all investments from now on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u109	Thank you. Because the debate in this House is always useful, when it is held at the highest level, it is clear that all issues relating to this amendment have been essentially clarified. As has also been clarified by the particular issue raised by the Chief of Officerial Representation, namely that paternity - let me express the expression - of this amendment belonging to a member of the SYRIZA - is absolutely expressing and reflecting the Government's view through the Prime Minister's own view, since yesterday the Minister had justifiably accepted this amendment. The debate will be closed with the Prime Minister's intervention on this matter. On the issue of unconstitutionality, Mr Dendia, you know better than I do that with this Regulation - because you know very well that it is one of the issues that we are discussing to change next month - unconstitutional requests for the whole matter of a bill are at the beginning of the sitting, the debate. You know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u110	For the amendment, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u111	I know. There has been a special debate on the constitutionality of the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u112	It is an amendment that has been introduced at the end. What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u113	Mr Tindemans, there is a whole debate on this issue which has also evolved within the House. Mr Venizelos, who is present, has raised these issues - and other aspects have been raised. There is a gap in this matter, we are dealing with it in the context of the change in the Rules of Procedure and we will discuss it here in the next few days. Please do not insist on the fact that you know that there is no past so that on this amendment, and even when the debate has been closed, a request for unconstitutionality can be made.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u114	It's not like that. May I?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u115	You're very welcome. Keep my opinion, keep yours, and move on to the closure of the sitting. It's no different.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u116	Mr. President, would you excuse me for a moment?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u117	I forgive you for just a second. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u118	You are right at first because Article 100 says 'at the start of the debate', but the article refers to the law. This amendment was tabled in the way described by the Chief of Staff and accepted by the Minister a quarter to twenty minutes last night before the end of the debate. And then the last two government spokesmen resigned to prevent the government, before it was understood by us, from voting. There was no time stage in which, within the logic of unconstitutionalism, the issue could be raised. That's the one. Secondly, the unconstitutionality of over 50% and 100% in principle came after the sincere - I repeat it, even though it tried to change it - Mr Kammenos's position. Because Mr Kammenos told us here that this is about investment, an investor and an enterprise. The Prime Minister and the ministers did not say that. Fewer beings and less sincere than Mr Kammenos concealed from the national Parliament the productive causes of this amendment. So, Mr President, unconstitutionalism has now become apparent and you cannot deny Parliament the opportunity to make a clear photographic statement. I'm sorry to tell you, it's going to be absolutely scandalous. There's no reason to do this. It is unconstitutional, it is carabinato, it will be taught to the universities of the country as a model photographic provision, and we have to decide on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u119	Thank you. Mrs Zarulia has the floor for a comment she wants to make. Then the debate with the Prime Minister will be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u120	Golden Dawn denounces the hypocrisy of Officer Opposition with regard to photographic laws, which now denounces that they are unconstitutional. Not only did we not see the same sensitivity when it comes to Golden Dawn, but they brought and voted for a photographic anti-constitutional law on the financing of the Golden Dawn. But, as you have seen, Golden Dawn can operate without your dirty money.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u121	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u122	Mr President, I should like to clarify something about what Mr Dendias said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u123	Mr Xydakis, Mr. Dendias will not say that he is factum. It is Mr Teddy's impression of yesterday's procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u124	They're the wrong impressions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u125	Okay, they're wrong impressions. Sit down, okay, sounded. You were both here. It wasn't me, but I saw you. The President will have the floor. Immediately afterwards we will proceed to the roll-call vote, after I say the list of the two parties, namely the New Democracy and SYRIZA, because yesterday this issue had been closed in relation to the Democratic Alliance, the list had been announced and we will not be repeating it again. Here, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u126	I will give two answers soon, Mr President, and we will be in the process. The first answer is a procedural one, in relation to Mr Mitsotakis' question as to whether a report by the General Accounting Office of the State is required or not, and the latter is a substance. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, according to a regular parliamentary practice, there is no need for a report from the General Accounting Office of the State. For this reason, I would ask you to remind me of a single parliamentary amendment, which has been accepted by the previous governments, your own governments, which had a report from the General Accounting Office of the State. Mia! Bring me one here and then move the Constitution to me and tell me whether we are or are not with the letter of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u127	Please! The debate has evolved. Easy!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u128	Please, there is no reason to interrupt me and as you can see, I am trying to give answers to the substance. Secondly, even ministerial amendments, as I well imagine you are aware of those who have experience of the parliamentary procedure, if, within 15 days of their delivery, the General Accounting Office of the State does not produce a report without a report, on the basis of Rule 85 of the Rules of Procedure. As far as the budgetary aspect is concerned, this amendment, before it is accepted by Mr Papadimitriou, whose bill we were discussing yesterday - and obviously with all this fuss, is aimed at eradicating from the memory and the impression of the public that today it passes a very positive draft law on the extrajudicial compromise, which you are voting against - Mrs Papanatziou from the Ministry of Finance yesterday, on the financial side, took the political responsibility and made it acceptable. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Let's go down, let's go on as far as the subject of substance is concerned. You know, there's a proverb that says "Where we were owed, they take the ox." And I want to be very clear. This amendment is horizontal. It concerns each operation from now on, each operation. It is of course about the CAP, and nobody hides it. But it is not just about the CAP, it is about every operation. So I challenge you, Mr Mitsotakis, to go together to Xanthi and talk to the local community, to talk to the workers. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] But why am I saying that where you owe us, you get us the ox? Why am I saying that? I say this because the CFP and the responsibility of smuggling and bankruptcy have it just before, on your governments, who were running it and bankrupt and smuggled under the eyes of your governments! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Who are they? Who are they? I must ask you to tell me who they are! Who are they who were smugglers? Who were the smugglers? Whose responsibilities have been the smugglers for all these years? In what context of lawlessness were they operating, misusing businesses, closing them and making money out? And, of course, who made them back? Of course, the criminal scene has been examined. This amendment, ladies and gentlemen, does not delete any fines. And stop lying! A life with a lie! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] He's not erasing any fines. Fines have been deleted by you and Mr Stournaras as Minister of Finance in large businesses overnight, oil and smuggling! And let this go, that we are erasing fines! It's a disgrace! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And here comes the motions in the House! No fines shall be deleted. Charges for customs infringements apply, in fact, to those who have committed them, to the previous governors and are neither eradicated nor charged with any financial burden. What's going on? A healthy company is allowed to operate and to have workers. And that is what you call a photo layout! Do you know what "photography" is? Your mind to any healthy investor who doesn't want to be delivered, who doesn't want to be delivered to your own conflict, who is even present today! That's the reality! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, after these suffocatingly revealing the attitude of Officer Opposition, which has come here today to create an incident in order not to discuss the extrajudicial compromise, which will give a breath to tens of thousands of businesses and vote against in order to create a cloud of impression - that is why we are debating this today and in breach of the procedure this debate lasted for an hour and a half - I call on the President of Parliament to take the responsibility of taking the responsibility of moving forward in the process. And if some of your Members don't vote, it's not my fault, Mr. Mitsotakis. Let's watch out!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u129	Ladies and gentlemen, a very substantial debate has taken place with the Bureau in my opinion on an issue that has arisen. I think we really need calm and cool to get through these conversations. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[Let the page in. 48a]] An application has been made for a roll-call vote on the principle, articles and amendments to the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development: ‘Exit mechanism for the regulation of corporate debts and other provisions’ by Members of the Radical Left Coalition, whose text reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u130	I will also read out the list of signatories for the roll-call vote to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mr. Antoniou Christos. Here you go. Mrs. Alonitou Helen. Here. Mrs. Vagonakis Evangelia. Here. Mr. Dimitriadis Dimitrios. Here you go. Mrs. Trollerite Maria. Here. Mrs Katsavria - Chrysopoulou. Here. Mrs. Kafantari Harula. Here. Mrs. Lebanese Zoe. Here. Mr. Beyalas Christos. Here you go. Mr. Xydakis Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Sarakiotis John. Here you go. Mr. Spartin Constantine. Here you go. Mr. Ursouzidis Georgios. Here you go. Mrs. Jack Theodora. Here. Mr. Risulis Andreas. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure to vote for a roll-call vote on the Radical Left coalition. A request has also been made for a roll-call vote on Amendment No 1027/15 by Members of the New Democracy whose text is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u131	I will also read out the list of signatories to request a roll-call vote in order to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mr. Dendias Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Katsaniotis Andreas. Here you go. Mr. Kavadas Athanasios. Here you go. Mr. Antoniadis John. Here you go. Mr. Kelles Christos. Here you go. Mr. Metarakis Panagiotis. Here you go. Mr. Consolas Emmanuel. Here you go. Mr. Stylos George. Here you go. Mr. Hatzidakis Konstantinos. Here you go. Mr. Dimas Christos. Here you go. Mrs. Karamanlis Anna. Here. Mr. Buras Athanasios. Here you go. Mr. Bukouros Christos. Here you go. Mr. Georgiadis Spyridon - Adonis. Here you go. Mrs. Antoniou Maria. Here. Mr. Augias Eleftherios. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure of signatories to request a roll-call vote of Members of the New Democracy. I would remind you that a request has been made for a roll-call vote on Amendment No 1027/15 by Members of the PASOK - DIMAR, as well as by the Independent Members of Parliament, Georgios - Dimitrios Karras and Theocharis Theocharis. The list of applications for a roll-call vote had been read last night and it had been found that the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure of the request by Members of the Democratic Alliance and the Independent Members has been found to exist. I would ask Vice-President Christodoulopoulos to take the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept to compress the roll-call votes on one?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u133	So the House unanimously agreed. Adjourn the sitting for ten (10') minutes under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u134	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. There will be a roll-call vote on the principle, articles and amendments to the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development: 'Exit mechanism for the regulation of corporate debts and other provisions'. The acceptance of the principle, the articles and the amendments of the draft law are 'WHEN'. Unacceptable people say 'OH'. The voters say 'PARON'. Mrs Anastasia Gara is on the list by SYRIZA and Mr Vassilis Yoyakas from New Democracy. I would also like to inform you that FAX colleagues have come to the Bureau, in accordance with Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of the House, in which they state their vote at first instance, of the articles and amendments of the bill. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u135	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, thirty-four students and students and six educational attendants from the 3rd Giannoulis Larissa Municipal School. We welcome you to the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u136	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letters, which were sent to the Bureau by colleagues, under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, are recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u137	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Bureau has received letters from colleagues, Mr George Katsiantonis, Mr Christos Stavoura, Mr Evangelos - Vasilis Meimarakis, Mr George Casapidis, Mr Theodores Karaoglou, Mr Georgios Karasmanis, Mr Stavros Kalafatis, Mr Savvas Anastasiadis, Mr. Apostolos Vesiropoulos, Mr. Theodoras Bakoyannis, Mr. Ilias Panayotarou, Mr. Christos Papapidou, Mr. Charas Kefalidou, Mr. Achmet Ilhan, Mr. Dimitrios Kremastinou and Mr. These letters are intended to vote, to be recorded in the Minutes of today's sitting, but are not counted on the counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u138	The vote is adjourned and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and take the result. [[COMMUNICATION]] Until the result of the roll-call vote is obtained, we shall proceed to the reading of the reports and then to the debate on topical and urgent questions and, in the meantime, to announce the outcome. I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u139	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We begin with our second question with number 749/244/2017, first question by MP, Athens, New Democracy, Gerasios Giakoumatos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the performance of widow’s pensions for women of fallen military in service. The State Secretary for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr Anastasios Petropoulos will respond. Mr. Yakumato, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u140	Mr President, there is no Greek woman, a Greek woman, who does not see that the uniform can be killed at an orderly service. Every day we see Erdogan's bogus guy, keep on intercepting from our planes. It's a job, a task that, in fact, is terrible. They are killed, as was recently done with the tragic accident with the fall of the helicopter. The men of the Greek Army are not interested in the reward. They sacrifice for their homeland. They don't care about themselves. But they care about the family. Death has two years old and seven years old. Should there not be provision for this from the state, from a coordinate state, to help them? I'm asking the Minister. Is it possible that L.4387/2016, and in particular Article 12, does not give any privileges that the law used to grant? Article 4, which will be answered by the Minister, clearly says that they are following the pension scheme of the current government, which has strict rules to enable it to be retired. Can Article 2109/1992, which actually gave spouses, men and women, or a child of permanent officers, the possibility of being appointed to the public without the provisions of the Staff Code, without prejudice to the provisions in force? It is the minimum pension and an appointment to the widow or child to be able to live. Because that, Mr President, sends a message. He sends a message to the men of the Greek Army, who we so need today. If anything needs Greece today, it's the Greek Army. He gives and he will give his life without consideration. But it's family too. We have children, Mr. President. We have our wives. Are we going to let them beg when we give our lives for our homeland? That's why I'm calling on the Minister to make it clear to me. Do the beneficial provisions of the appointment that existed now apply? If they are true, please tell me, Minister, by what means. That is what I am asking, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr President. I have already sent a relevant document to the Ministry of Defence Finance Directorate responsible for this issue, so that there are no doubts as to the provision of Article 4 of Law No.4387/2016, which explicitly excludes those cases that fall to death because of the performance of a duty of the Armed Forces in general. In particular, Article 4 states that they are exempt from the provisions of the law and, therefore, from the provisions of Article 12 relating to the pension on account of death, persons entitled to a pension on account of incapacity or death, who are manifestly and undeniably due to the service and who are subject to this, in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs d.168 and 169 of 2007. There is nothing to do with L.4387 in these cases. Absolutely nothing. The provisions of e.g. 169 remain in force and there is no restriction or reduction of pensions for persons entitled to this benefit in e.g. 169. It is precisely the case that he has dealt with the Greek with the loss of people from the Armed Forces after the fall of the helicopter in the Grevena region. Therefore, Mr Yakumato, there is no reason to worry about this issue in terms of the application of the law. It's 169. Still paid. There is no provision here for civil servants in the scope of interpretation and a combination of interpretation in that provision. Excludes entirely from the other provisions on government pensions as mentioned in L.4387. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Yakumato, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u144	As you know better than I do, State General Accounting doesn't want a circular. What is needed, and I will ask you to testify in the Minutes, is the paper you sent to the Ministry of National Defence, which you say applies to this interpretative circular. Do you have it with you to testify to it in the Minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u145	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u146	Send it to us. After you've come on this matter. You went to war without a gun. Bring her in to tell us 'here you are'. How else can I believe it? Secondly, Article 4, Minister, it is not a matter of impression, it is a matter of substance, of not giving others the opportunity, of having another management of the matter. He needs clarification. It says in Article 4, Mr President, "due to death, and so on, the above persons killed on duty, are still subject to the insurance - public pension scheme", i.e. the Katrugalou Act. That is what Article 4, which you refer to. So give me the evidence. Are we going to the General Accountancy Office to retire your widow and your Circular? On what basis will the appointment be made? Who? That's what I asked you, Minister, to bring me in. Tell me there's this provision, so I can go to my fund to retire. There is a provision of this kind which allows, in addition to the Rules of Procedure, the widow to be appointed. That's what we're asking. I would ask you to submit to the House or send this paper to see, secondly, whether it is in force or in need of law, an amendment, for example. You bring them all the time anyway. The New Democracy will also clear up and there will be no Greek against this amendment to clarify the pension scheme, without the restrictive conditions of the Katrugalos Act, of Law No.4387 and to know that the appointment will take place despite the Staff Code. Just stuff. One and one is two. It's not about making politics with the dead heroes or orphans and widows. This is what I ask of you, Minister, a clear statement and a law.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u148	That's what I'm saying, we don't have to make a policy on the grounds of widows. We must not make a policy for such tragic events, Mr Yakumate, because that is what you do when you say to legislate now. We've legislated. The order is clear. I have also answered your colleague, New Democracy MEP in Laconia very specifically before that happened, much before that accident happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u149	There's Article 4. That's not what he's saying. Let me read it again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u150	Since you like to clarify things. You didn't read it well and you didn't read it thoroughly. Now I'll read it well. I'll read it. It's the arrangement you've been talking about. ‘The above persons are still subject to the insurance - public pension scheme.’ You stopped there. You didn't say the following. Below it says ‘and their pensions are regulated on the basis of the legislation in force at the time of the entry into force of this Law’. I mean...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u151	Go to Article 12.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u152	I'll tell you. Wait, Mr. Yakumato. What I'm just saying you didn't say: 'and they're still being settled on the basis of the laws in force at the time of the entry into force of the law, i.e. on the basis of the provisions of Article 169, as...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u153	12 o'clock takes you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u154	Mr. Yakumato, there's no other interpretation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u155	Don't make a dialogue, we'll understand. And we're interested in the matter. Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u156	It says, Mr President, that pensions are regulated on the basis of the laws in force at the time of the entry into force of this law, that is to say, those which have been in force until that time for the public. In the public pensions it referred to the n.l.169, which referred to the deaths of officials who fell at the service time. Therefore, there is no other interpretation. It is clear that cases such as this are covered by the above provisions and Article 12 does not apply because this is the case under Article 4. This is the explicit statement by the author of the law and so let us be content with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u157	I'd like a clarification. Does the provisions in force refer to the old provisions?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u158	That's what he says. On the basis of the data in force at the time of entry into force of this Regulation. Currently, the previous ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u159	The Katougalu Law.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u160	Mr. Yakumato, the explanation has been given. Now if it's convincing or not...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u161	Do you understand that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u162	I understand what you're saying. But I understand what the Minister says.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u163	You speak as a doctor. Mr. Yakumato, you speak as a doctor. As a matrimonial doctor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u164	I'm a Pathologist.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u165	Good. That's what I was wrong about. I speak as a lawmaker, and I am an accurateist, and the provision is very clear. He was talking about the provisions that were in force until that time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u166	Get me the provisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u167	Thank you both.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u168	Old rules apply - that's what I'm asking - or the Katorugalou law?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u169	We have even referred to specialties, Mr Yakumate. Thank you very much, be well. Here is the third question by No. 768/254-2017 for the first cycle of the MP Iraklio of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR V.K. Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the immediate issue of a circular for the non-cutting of pensions (regardless of a fund) due to a rural activity or a subsidy that existed before 12 May 2016. The State Secretary for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr. Petropoulos, will answer. Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we still need a lot of work to clarify the issues that Mr.4387 has raised as questions about insurance, as problems with pensioners. Whether they are older or new retired people, they want to know what happens, not retrospectively. That is why I would ask you what we have discussed on several occasions, and it seems to me that it has cleared the landscape of many and pensioners farmers for whom the circular of 20 April has emerged, but also for the other pensioners of other funds for whom you have informed us that, even after 1-1-2017, they are retired, but if they were active in agriculture and aid before the law was passed, they are not subject to the 60% cut. I think that all this has been heard and restored to people who had concerns about a small income from the agricultural income they have and the question remains: will you issue a circular on these cases, just as it was with pensioners or will it be in the air? The requirement for the issue of circulars or other acts is not theoretical, that is to say, because we want to know what is in place, but precisely because there are issues that accountants themselves need to know, but also the people who are involved in the subsidy system. That is why I would ask you to define, if you have not done so by now, the date of issue of this circular. The deadlines for the transfer of single payment entitlements arising from the Common Agricultural Policy are binding, and this is in fact related to the need to issue a circular on your part.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Anastasios Petropoulos, Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr President. If I left space for misunderstanding, I will have to explain this clearly, Mr Kegeroglu, because I have always said that the area of agricultural and livestock production must not give the opportunity for unfair operation of some who are not going to be at the same cost as those who have primarily, or mainly, agricultural or livestock activity, because they are too many who are doing other jobs and who have been insured in other funds, who have developed such activities and have, in some cases, been very large. A pretext should therefore not be created unfair to farmers who under the law are subject to restrictions after 2025. And because the provisions in force beforehand have not been abolished for the cessation of retirement or the reduction of retirement, and any cases provided for by the previous funds, what I have to make clear here is that there will be no problem - and I have said so, but if it is misunderstood I will explain it - to those who had retired and have the activity from other funds before the law comes into force. Therefore, for those who have a rural area, but who have no income - that is clearly what I mean - they will in no way have this consequence of reducing the pension provided under the provisions of the law. This is diversification in terms of farmers. Farmers will be able to grow and come to pension by 1 January 2025 and do not have any legal effect. This means that those who up to that moment have been retired will maintain this treatment and then. It is another thing, however, that of those who have other activities, they are not farmers, they have shaped different levels of pensions. We don't have to make the same care for them. That's our position, and that's the right interpretation from the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u174	Mr President, thank you. It is a change in the picture that was made on the basis of the debate we had in four previous time questions, Minister. Clearly, can we talk? You told us that the pensioners of other funds, other than the OGA, who were retired until 31/12-2016 - today you tell us until the law was passed, and this has to be clarified - since they were old pensioners and since they had the agricultural income and the subsidy before the resolution of Law No4387, have no impact on their pension because they are protected by the previous existing laws which maintains them in Article 20, for old pensioners who had a subsidy before the law is passed on to whom there is no change. In the next time you told us that the same applies to young retired people, but that their agricultural income and subsidies were before the law was passed. It seems from your answer that the latter is changing. Make it clear what's going on. The pensioners of the other funds, the old subsidisation before the law is passed, are they exempted from the 60% cut, are they excluded? The new pensioners either after May or after 1 January? Make it clear. The other funds again - not the OGA - which have agricultural income or aid before the resolution of the Katrugalos Act continues to be excluded from the cut-off or will they be subject to the cut-off? There are two specific things that you need to tell us clearly. There can be no such blur and the Court of Auditors can come in asking for back pensions and even impose a penalty because they did not say that they had another income. It must be clear what is happening now that it is early and even before the deadline for the transfer of rights over the next few days so that these people can be protected. Is that so hard? I think you can do it. I expect that we will have a clear answer today.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u176	I can explain again that for farmers who are farmers in the understanding of all and are subject to the OGA provisions with the provisions of that law, now in EFCA, there is no effect on pensions for those who retire until 31/12-2024. Of course for those who had retired before the same. However, with those who are insured - because they have other activities - in other funds and have crops and incomes, and because, as you will know, there are important activities and crops for livestock or fisheries and from such professionals, it would be unfair for farmers and farmers to have an effect even after 2024, and for others not to have any effect. When will this be maintained? That's why we said - that's what the law says - that if you show an income, then you only have an activity. You may have a field that sits, you'll obviously pay HISPIA for it, but you won't be part of the process of economic activity if you don't have an economic activity. And you won't have an economic activity if you don't have an income. Since it will not state income, of course, in the E1, which is the statement of income, it will obviously not be subject to the process of cutting pensions because it happens to have such activities. Therefore, the criterion is whether it will have income. Otherwise, there is no effect.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u177	Old retired people?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u178	And for the old ones, I've said. Those who, until the start of the law, had activity and income, can continue to have activity and income. I spoke about the pre-implementation of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, too. We move on to the first with number 751/25-4-2017 a top-level question of the First Cycle of the Member of the Larissa Coalition of the Radical Left Mr. Anna Vageias to the Minister of Culture and Sport, concerning the First Ancient Theatre of Larissa and the strategy of the Ministry of Culture and Sport. The Minister will answer Mrs. Lydia Connordou. Madam Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u180	The most important work may be to maintain and restore archaeological sites in the wider area of Larissa. This is a monument of cultural heritage with huge radiation, which is located in the southern suburbs of the Fortress hill, in other words in the heart of the old city of Larissa. In this period, the core work axis was interrupted at the end of December 2015, when the project was financed from the 2007-2013 NSRP development programme. Since then, and despite the initial intention not to interrupt the interim operations or one day, so that once the financing of the restoration project was reinitiated has not been lost in the medium term, the reconstruction work has not only continued, but is still evident when it will begin again. At the same time, all of the resources and resources available are devoted to drawing up a study - yet another study, there are too many for the monument - under the diligence of the Association of Diosomas. This evolution makes the timeframe for the project to be completed more and more liquid. Given that the Ancient Theatre of Larissa should work as soon as possible as possible as a theatre, hosting the theatrical performances of ancient drama, with the spectators in the spectators - I stress this - as it is a huge monument for the region, but also for the country as a whole, which is about to attract a crowd of people, bringing great benefits to the local economy and creating many jobs, bearing in mind that the present leadership of the CSCE has glorified with its presence the ancient drama and presenting strong links with the theatrical and artistic creation of the region, while it is well known its sensitivity to archaeological sites with a high cultural load, asked the Minister: What are the concrete and positive actions that make up CSR policy against the ancient theatre of Larissa? What stage is the implementation of this policy and what strategy does it intend to implement, with a view to the theater being delivered to the public as soon as possible, operating as a milestone of upgrading the overall cultural level of the region?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Mrs. Baja. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u182	Thank you for the timely question, because it is a matter that we are all really concerned with. As you know, it's a great long long time for the longing to play in the ancient theatres. On the other hand, however, this process needs great attention, and it is timely, so that ancient monuments can be properly attributed rather than hastily. The fact is that this monument, this theatre, is one of the most important and especially the Larisa Prefecture, is really a lot of radiation. The services of the Ministry of Culture and Sport have carried out a series of life-saving and maintenance work to promote the environment. The promotion of the project in all previous programming periods, 1999, 2006, 2007 and 2013, as you mentioned, demonstrates the great interest of the Ministry in this important monument. After the end of the last project, there was no mature study of funding for the continuation of work. It is therefore in progress today to prepare the relevant studies. In order for work to be done, last stage studies must be carried out, involving and supervising the responsible Department of Antiquities. The funding of the studies, as you mentioned, is not only supported by the Foundation "Dizoma", but by 100,000 from the sponsorship of the "Kanellopoulou" Foundation and with a very serious participation of the Municipality of Larissai with 175,000, to be offered for this purpose, plus 50,000 from the "Dizoma" Association. It is an important amount, which is planned to be gathered, has already been concentrated, so that studies involving the complete imprinting and submission of a proposal for the restoration of all sections of the monument, hollow, diagnosed, theatre, scene, passes, design of the diffused architectural members, the imprinting of the buildings of the surrounding area, particularly old bakeries, facilities designed to be integrated into the promotion and operation of the ancient theatre, the preparation of a geotechnical study, the reproduction of the archaeological sites in the wider area, so as to connect to a single route with the ancient theatre, as well as the promotion of the monument. When the studies are completed, estimated in the summer of this year, they will be submitted, through the Ministry's relevant departments for approval, together with the master plan of the actions needed to highlight the entire site, in order to enable proposals to be made to finance the work. As I mentioned above, I stress that the synergies and the contribution of local society are what is needed and what is the goal at a time. The Municipality of Larissaion proceeds to expropriate the building block to the front of the monument, while at the same time forming a network of pavements around the monument, which made the wider area attractive and point of reference for the Larissanes and visitors. Today, therefore, the monument has almost all its material by country, as well as partial accessibility for visitors and mainly for the orchestra. So we cannot say that the monument can be delivered immediately if not all of this work is done, so that it can be hosted by the public. There is no point in sitting in the orchestra, since that is only where accessibility is currently allowed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u183	Madam Colleague, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u184	With regard to the studies, I would like to ask whether they are carried out by the Diotoma. Because the "Diatoma" has taken this money and the 175,000 euros from the municipality and - I think - 180,000 euros from the "Kanelopoulos" Foundation. He does the "Dioma" study and why does this body do it and does the Ministry not do it? I mean, did an intermediate body need to do the study, an additional study of the many that have been done? I'm afraid we're staying a lot in the studies. I know very well that studies are a prerequisite. This theatre has gone all these years with the archaeologists of Larissa and the Antiquities of Larissa. It has become most of the work and was ready to accept at least two thousand people with its intermediate scales. I know it very well, I watch it day after day. It's a very important thing for the old Larissans. We have grown up in these soils, we have walked there, when there was no ancient theater and there were shops and streets. It's our neighborhood, and we know it very well. So I'm afraid we're wasting time. Of course, the spectators must go to the spectators. That's what I mean. There is the possibility and as the archaeologists assure us, for two thousand spectators it could work immediately. And I believe that if you do not, in your term of office, as Minister of Culture, then that will not be interested in doing so. You have all the reasons. I know very well your love for the city, for the ancient theater. That's where you started your brilliant career as a tragedy. And you must take it personally, Minister. I know what you're saying, I get it. But don't stay in the studies. Because if the Thessalic Theatre, which we created in 1975, was involved in doing studies before doing the theatrical decentralization, we would still be in the studies. I want to submit a brochure from the ancient theater of our city, because this treasure is not known, which is in the center of Larissa. Really, I'm glad you're here to talk about this, so people can hear and know the existence of this great monument in Greece as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, my colleague. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u186	As I mentioned in the first part, the studies that are being carried out are always in connection with the Department of Antiquities of the region, which oversees the studies and gives its assent. They can't be left out of her.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u187	Whose body is this from?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u188	They are always in collaboration with and with the supervision of responsibility. Also, the services of the Ministry are in collaboration with the Special Management Service of the Thessaly OP for a possible communication - call for the submission and funding of projects, which are a priority of the Ministry of Culture. One of these priorities is the Ancient Theatre of Larissa. I should also add that the Central Archaeological Council recently delivered an opinion in favour of authorising the expropriation and direct acquisition of three stores on Venizelos Street, in order to liberate the eastern pass of the ancient theatre. It can't work a theatre, as you know very well, only with the orchestra and some stands. It must have accessibility, the environment must be appropriately shaped. It doesn't make any sense to get into a theater like that, to say we're in. It is important to understand that, yes, we all want to make use of these spaces and bring them back to life. The work done in these areas, however, is done for all the next generations. It is not just about our own reality and our own direct desires. Therefore, it must be done by careful steps, so that the monument does not suffer such damage and, in addition, that there is appropriate accessibility. Also, the care of the Ministry of Culture for the monument seems to have been included, along with other theaters of Greece, in the catalogue of monuments of our country's global cultural heritage. And let's not forget - you know it better than I did, but since 1978, when we played at the little theatre of Larissa, this very beautiful ring, which is next to and beyond the great ancient theatre - that the Ancient Theatre of Larissa was all these years under this market, as you said, by monuments, by buildings, by shops. Slowly revealed. And it was a work of life of Mr. Jafalia, this great archaeologist, who had worked in the area, to deliver this monument. So, a little more patience to help it work the way it should, bright and fully ready, I think it is worth it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u189	I hope that will be done in your term of office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u190	Let it happen and it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, Minister. Here is the first question, under number 750/24-4-2017, of the second question of the Member of Parliament, Evros, New Democracy. Anastasios State, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, concerning the immediate restoration of the damage to the "Bayazet" Mosque in Dumotiko, after the catastrophic fire of April 22nd. Mr. Pschakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, March 22nd was a black day for the twin and Evros. The Mosque Bayazet, the most important Islamic monument in Europe, of great cultural and historical value, which is identical to the city's history, suffered serious damage due to fire. The result was to destroy the unique architectural beauty and originality of the mosque, in which renovation and reconstruction works were carried out. Unfortunately, you have not taken the necessary measures to protect the monument, so that we have this unfortunate incident of fire that broke out. Of course, there are tragic delays in the relaunching of the monument, in accordance with the 2014-2020 NSRP programme. What is important at the moment is that the restoration works should immediately be carried out, in order to eliminate the clouds of depression and melancholy that have been occupied by the Twinstone, as well as its inhabitants. Minister, you have visited the Dumotich and you have made a public commitment that you will take the necessary steps to restore the monument. Unfortunately, however, we see today that heavy vehicles have been withdrawn, you have left behind the atrocities and damaged large metals and building materials and objects by sending the message of abandoning the monument to his fate. You do not seem to have a plan for immediate damages, so the mosque is exposed to the rains - we have recently - and the winter is coming next, which, as we know, is particularly heavy in our area. Since we do not want to see the delays and oligopoly of the past, we would like you to tell us in detail what the timetable is for restoring the monument's damage. I know that the destruction of the monument did not come from an unlawful act or organised criminal act, and that is why I took the risk of saying, as soon as I arrived at the point that it is not an unlawful act. But we want you to let us know who is responsible for the unfortunate incident, where the investigations are, whether criminal prosecutions have been carried out, whether sanctions have been imposed or are expected to be imposed. Knowing that the country's economic situation is difficult and is not the best possible today, can you tell us in what ways and in what financial instruments will you go ahead with the restoration of the monument and, in general, the promotion of our cultural heritage? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Mr President. This mosque has been declared a preserved monument since 1946. The implementation of the overall restoration of the mosque Bayazet was recently integrated, in 2011, under the National strategic reference framework. At dawn, as you said, of March 22, 2017, the fire that manifested destroyed the cold pyramid roof of the monument. On the same day, the Secretary General of the Ministry of Culture and Sport took a step forward from the relevant departments of the Ministry in order to assess the situation and consider the subsequent actions. At the same time, the mandate was given immediately to investigate this case, this incident, and to give rise to responsibilities. On 23-3-2017, as you mentioned, I, too, visited the General Secretary of the Dumotich and there was a meeting with the local players and, as I was surprised to hear, it was the first time that Minister of Culture visited the region over the last few years. I refer a little to the past, which you have spoken about. It is therefore clear to show the Ministry's interest in this unique monument and its partnership with the great, as you said, tribulation of the inhabitants of the region for the restoration of the monument. Immediately the cranes entered and removed all the pieces that were projected from the roof and created a dangerous situation throughout the surroundings around the monument. Immediately the cleansing, disposal of the contained metal elements took place. The work has been carried out directly, in accordance with the urgency procedure, which was completed on 11-4-2017. At the same time, the fence of the monument was repaired, the temporary iron doors were constructed in the place of those who burned and attributed the surrounding area of the monument to the uninterrupted and safe passage of pedestrians and vehicles. To make it possible to restore the monument as soon as possible, the study of technical specifications for the award of two research projects, which will be carried out by a team of experts from the National Technical University, with natural object, firstly, the reconstruction of the wooden body and the restoration of the roof and secondly, the fixing and restoration of its shell. So what you mentioned, that the work has ceased and that nothing is done at all, is not the case. We are ready to enter the next stage in May, so the tracks on the track will be removed through the walls of the mosque, and the monument will be cleaned and prepared to be ready for the next phases of restoration.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Minister. Mr Pinheiro has the floor for his dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u196	Madam Minister, you have not answered my questions. You did record a service route from the time the fire occurred until recently. I would like to stress, however, that the history of the city of Dumotio is a special one and is a driving lever of local society, taking breath to local professionals and residents. One of the monuments that attracted visitors’ interest was this mosque. So you have to tell us in detail what steps you will take to restore him and the timetable, give us a specific programme on how the Ministry will now go in this direction. I would like you to know - and you are well aware - that you have not appointed as Government, not as Minister, the Antiquities Officer of the Prefecture of Evros. And Mrs Karadima, Professor of Antiquities of the Rhodope Prefecture, is making friendly efforts to tackle, firstly, her own problems in her region, where she has the high tasks, and of course Evros, who, as you know, carries a very large proportion of Byzantine history and not only. I hope, however, that you will make your decisions, because thanks to the Bayazet mosque, to which you must turn your attention, the Dumotich can evolve and evolve into a cultural capital of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace as well. We have monuments of ancient Greek, Roman, Byzantine, Christian, post-Byzantine, great historical and cultural value. So now that our region really feels poorer than the previous period, but its inhabitants have been occupied - and what I mean - by melancholy and depression, you should have fun in all this situation that has currently prevailed in the area of the Dumotite and throughout Evros. You should highlight all these historical monuments, for which unfortunately it has been designed, but they are not being renovated and restored. I think it is up to you to proceed in steps quickly, so that you can send a message to the local society that Athens is present at the Dumotich, is present at the Evros. This really is what we are seeking and that is what you really ought to do. I would like to inform you - and you are well aware - that one of the major cities of Byzantium was founded in the Hill of Kale at the Dumotich. Her fortification was made by Justinian. Since then, no attempt has been made to restore her walls. The current condition of the monument is quite good. A large part of it has been saved, such as the Market Gate, the Bridge Gate, as well as important towers. The restoration of the walls would highlight their greatness and enlighten Byzantine history in our area and in the city. In the European area there are a few fortified medieval cities. One of them is Carcasson, France. You can, with the excellent scientists who have your Ministry, visit this city, see how it was organized, how a serious monument of France was restored and what a lever of development was then made for the whole region of the Karkasson Region. I think you have steps to take towards culture, which the city of Dumotich highlights. It's the post-Byzantine churches, it's the Plotinopolis. The Greek state has built a Byzantine museum, which operated for a five-month period at turtle rate and, unfortunately, you closed it. There can be no such cost created in the Greek state for the promotion of our cultural heritage and a Byzantine museum, which we really thought would give another breath and another rhythm in the city, to be closed. I would ask you very much to see this with interest, because the city really needs it. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Madam Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, Mr President. The Dumotich was indeed a place of a series of emperors of the late Byzantine and early Ottoman period, as well as a place of exile of important persons and their courtes. It presents a monumental topography on the Hill of its Castle in Varossi, but also on the Hill of St. Petra, where excavations take place in the ruins of Platinoupolis. With regard to the protection and promotion of the monuments of the Prefecture of Evros, and in particular of the Dimotikotikos area, I can tell you that an overall proposal from the Evros Evros Evros was designed: "Protection and promotion of archaeological sites of Dumotio", a budget of 800,000 euros, which includes a fortification of the Byzantine city with a budget of 150,000 euros, the construction of a roof in Platinoupolis with a budget of 550,000 euros. The design was in the context of the call entitled "The integrated spatial investment of an Ennatia Road cultural route" in the region of East Macedonia - Thrace. The exhibition of the Ottoman bath Orutch Pasha, "Psythyrus Loutres", was included in the Programme for Territorial Cooperation of Greece - Bulgaria 2007-2013, with the beneficiary of the Municipality of Dumitich. Studies have been conducted. It was signed in 2015 and the provisional substation of the monument was approved. The studies, the restoration work of Loutros, estimated and according to the information from the services, will start by the end of this year, as well as the work on the Castle of Pythios, for which the studies have already been carried out. Studies on the maintenance, restoration and protection of three post-Byzantine temples in the wider area of the Dymote, Agios Athanasio Metaxas, Agia Paraskevi and Agios Panteleimon Paliourou and Agios Athanasio Alepochori, are adjusted after the observations of the relevant addresses. Upon completion of the procedure for approving the studies by the CDE, they will be included in the next planning of the action programme with a proposal for financing the work. Also, the Byzantine Museum will open. It won't be closed. Already when I went there, I met the guard who would take that responsibility. Also, educational material is designed in the Byzantine Museum, through which schools in the wider area and Thrace as a whole will be able to have a first in-depth contact with the monumental wealth of the area, a very important project. Our intention is not to keep the Museum shut. On the contrary, it is our intention to make the official opening.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u199	When?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u200	I already told you, with the seasonals they hire, it will work immediately.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Minister. [[Enter the text of Legislative Decree 138a]] Ladies and gentlemen, one more timely question remains. Mr. Vasiliade, it's for you. But at this point we will be interrupting to announce the results of the roll-call vote. In five to ten minutes we will be done with the results and will continue with the timely question. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. A total of 255 Members voted. In favour of the principle of the draft law, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 151 MPs. Against the outset of the draft law, i.e. 'OH', 88 MPs voted. They voted for 16 MPs. The draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development, therefore, was adopted by a majority in principle. Article 1 of the draft law: In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 151 Members voted. According to an article, 'NO', 103 Members voted. Vote "PARTS" 1 Member. Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 2 of the draft law: In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 152 Members voted. Against this article, in other words 'NO', they voted 102 Members. Vote "PARTS" 1 Member. Article 2 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Article 3 of the draft law: In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 151 Members voted. Against this article, in other words 'NO', they voted 102 Members. They voted for 2 MPs. Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 4 of the draft law: In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 151 Members voted. Against this article, 70 Members voted against. They voted for 34 MPs. Article 4 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Article 5 of the draft law: In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 157 Members voted. Against this article, 70 Members voted against. They voted for 28 Members. Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 6 of the draft law: In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 151 Members voted. Against this article, 89 Members voted against. They voted for 15 MPs. Article 6 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Article 7 of the draft law: In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 157 Members voted. Against this article, 70 Members voted against. They voted for 28 Members. Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 8 of the draft law: In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 151 Members voted. Against this article, 71 Members voted against. They voted for 33 MPs. Article 8 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Article 9 of the draft law: In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 157 Members voted. Against this article, 83 Members voted against. They voted for 15 MPs. Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 10 of the draft law: In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 149 Members. Against this article, 89 Members voted against. They voted for 17 MPs. Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Article 11 of the draft law: In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 151 Members voted. Against this article, 70 Members voted against. They voted for 34 MPs. Article 11 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Article 12 of the draft law: In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 149 Members. Against this article, the House voted 104 Members. They voted for 2 MPs. Article 12 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Article 13 of the draft law: In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 157 Members voted. Against this article, 70 Members voted against. They voted for 28 Members. Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Article 14 of the draft law: In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 151 Members voted. Against this article, 77 Members voted against. They voted for 27 MPs. Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Article 15 of the draft law: In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 150 Members. Against this article, 70 Members voted against. They voted for 35 MPs. Article 15 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Article 16 of the draft law: In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 151 Members voted. Against this article, 70 Members voted against. They voted for 34 MPs. Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 17 of the draft law: In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 170 Members voted. Against this article, 83 Members voted against. They voted for 2 MPs. Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Amendment No 1025/13 to the draft law: In favour of the amendment, i.e. 'NAH', 230 Members voted. On the amendment, i.e. 'NO', 15 Members voted. They voted for 10 MPs. The amendment under number 1025/13 was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Amendment No 1026/14 to the draft law: In addition to the amendment 'NAH', they voted for 161 Members. In other words, 77 Members voted against the amendment. They voted for 17 MPs. The amendment under number 1026/14 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same articles. Amendment No 1027/15 to the draft law: In favour of the amendment, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 149 Members. On the amendment, namely 'Notice', they voted 106 Members. The amendment under number 1027/15 was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. In the present case, the Court of First Instance found that the Commission had failed to fulfil its obligations under Article 85(1) of the In favour of the nominee article, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 151 Members. On the other hand, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, as well as the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, will vote for the report. They voted for 15 MPs. Therefore, the hotel article was accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote, in accordance with the protocol below.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u202	The draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development, therefore, was adopted in principle and under the articles. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u203	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u204	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u205	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u206	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u207	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u208	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u209	Yeah. The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of Economy and Development ‘Exit mechanism for corporate debt regulation and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u210	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u211	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going back to the topical questions and we are going to debate the fourth question under number 712/10-4-2017 of the second-cycle question by MP Kilkis of the New Democracy Mr Georgiou Georgiou Georgios Georgios to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on "an unjustified delay of the Ministry in the request of the Municipality of Kilkis for the "Conservation and Upgrading of the National Stage of Kilkis". The current question by Mr Georgantas will be answered by the Deputy Minister of State, George Vasiliadis. Mr. Georgioda, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, Mr President. The truth is that the content of my current question today is unusual. It is unusual because - as you said on his point, Mr President - we are asking for explanations on the part of the Ministry for the delay in the request of the Municipality of Kilkis to take over and do himself, with its own costs, the maintenance and upgrading of the Municipal Stadium in Kilkis. This is a project undertaken by the General Secretariat of the Institutions and, of course, by the relevant Ministry, but, on 4 December 2015, completely unnecessarily - I am not going to mention this at this moment - the previous Minister, Mr Kontonis, has decided to stop work. The paradox, Mr President, in this case is this: on 18 January 2016 the Municipality of Kilkis made an official request, since there is a weakness or reluctance - as one takes it - on the central government's side to complete a project that had to do and whose work was interrupted unrelentingly, and asked for the dossier to be completed by the Municipality of Kilkis. Sixteen months have passed and the project file has not come to the municipality of Kilkis to enable the municipality, at its own expense, to complete the work and deliver it to the young people of Kilkis, so that everyone who plays, all those who work out, all who have teams - and can also play games at this stage - can enjoy such a stage. This unacceptable, which was inherited by the Minister who will answer today, is an issue that really escapes from all ethics and from all logic. And I really expect the answer with interest, as the official correspondence of the Municipality of Kilkis to the Ministry for this request is, of course, at the Ministry's disposal and in the knowledge of all the Kilkisites. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u213	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u214	Thank you very much, Mr President. In fact, in the case of the Kilkis municipal stage, we have been dealing with a painful story that basically shows how things have been happening in the country all these years and what we have to deal with now. Perhaps it would make sense to see how we started and how we ended up, because this work, Mr President, is a project that was integrated and started in 2003 by planning to complete in three hundred sixty days. It had an initial budget of 1.5m euros and reached 2.5m euros without having been completed. Since then, there has been a decision by the General Secretariat of Sports and by my predecessor that work should be interrupted due to the complexity of the history of contracts with successive extensions - if you wish - then we can refer to the history - to be cleared and then, after being discussed with the Municipality of Kilkis, to be attributed to the municipality so that the project can be completed, at the same time, without leaving Law Kilkis out of design. For this reason, and since the project began with the then methods - the known methods that led us here - it had joined us as a unit along with some other sports facilities in the county. The obsolete technical services of the General Secretariat of Sports - which we can talk about if you want to discuss, how we got here - started to cut a gap with the tables, with the measurements, along the way, so that there can be financial clearance in order to get delivery and receipt and be attributed to the municipality. On 24 March 2017, the fourth recapitalising table was sent to us so that we can proceed with the project. The procedures provided for in the law have been followed. A week ago, the service council, on which the suggestion to me to stop work came, became a week ago. And we calculate, on the basis of the procedures laid down by the law, that, in about three months from now, the project will be able to be received and attributed to the municipality to continue - if it so wishes - the details of the field, which do not at present affect the sport of the citizens at the stage. We're talking about work on the stands. The construction site is right now under the scales. There is, therefore, a problem. There is a situation, created from 2003 to 2016. The agencies tried to figure out how to keep us from ruining any more public money. We propose public interest and public money, public money security. We therefore have clear procedures, without the responsibility of the General Secretariat services for any delays. I can tell you again that we have had twelve revisions to the original contract, Mr President. That's the reality. If you want us to get into the details of how we got here, we can do it. But I think it doesn't matter. People know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr President, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u216	Mr President, I am really surprised by this: I always start my prototype in a context in which there is a real debate and a consultation. Now, I hear from the Minister here - and I am really disappointed, because I did not give this Minister any responsibility for the fact that 15 months now we cannot receive a project - peaks that the project was not done in a clear way, that these successive conventions and extensions existed. Minister, go to the D.A. Are you saying that your predecessors at the Ministry, the Secretariat, the address, the engineers, did not do their duty properly? To solve this you have a unique way - not as an option, but as your obligation - to go to the prosecutor. I read here Mr Kontonis's decision, which says, 'Our service cannot finance the project'. That's why he stopped this project, which had left a balance of 600,000 euros. Well, either he had reluctance or he didn't have the chance. I will say, however, another thing, which I did not want to say: on 8 September 2015, from the Public Investment Programme, there was a loan of EUR 300,000. And because I at meetings with Mr. Kontonis was present at both of them, he was never told by Mayor Kilkis that he wanted to do the work. He said: "Let the 300,000 already inside be exhausted, and if you can't finally fix it, the rest of me can fix it." Mr. Contonis, completely inaccurately said that the mayor had requested this from the outset. But because I was present, the mayor never asked for that. The mayor said to take over the rest of the sum, beyond 300,000 euros. In any case, he interrupted the work. And right now, twenty months later, the Kilkisiots, in an incomplete work that they know the municipality wants to do, ask reasonablely: But why does the file not come in to fix this project at its own expense, so that we do not have to deal with the central administration? What we see is that there is no service and that it takes about twenty months to close a file and give it to the municipality to be made with citizens' money. If that is time reasonable - if it is kept, I keep my reservations - that we should have a job cut somewhere and then that the public themselves should undertake a project, I am very concerned about the way in which it can be efficiently managed by this Ministry. There are issues politically and morally why these work has been interrupted. My official paper tells me why he can't finance it. Not to see where the Minister gave money at the time. I don't want to look into it. One thing I'm interested in, so we don't have to deal with anymore: Send the file to Kilkis to make the project by the Municipality of Kilkis. What's simpler? What cleaner? On that, unfortunately, I do not receive a specific answer again. You've been talking for three months later. However, I should like to tell you something to avoid suspicion: if you repeat what you said, then you have an obligation to send the file for all the previous years where you must send it. So simple and clear to understand in here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u217	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, Mr President. I think, Mr. Georgioda, you're doing everything you don't understand. So I say again to you this: after deciding to interrupt - and we will say how we have reached the decision to suspend - the liquidation is done so that delivery and receipt can take place. The committee therefore looks at whether the projects provided for in the ongoing contract revisions were carried out, whether they were paid properly and what happened. I don't know if he's coming to the D.A. We all hope that's not enough. However, not to understand that a contract, launched on 29-4-2003, adapted in 2005, was revised in 2007 and the budget was adjusted in 2008, re-examined in 2009, followed by several extensions until 2012, eight hundred ninety-three days the project had stopped...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u219	Do you have any money to pay for the contractor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u220	...and the contractor wasn't paid. That's not why we're gonna fight about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u221	What money did the contractor ask you? Did he ask you? Tell us, so the Kilkisiots know.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u222	Now it's cleared up, Mr. Georgioda.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u223	What does the contractor say he wants to get?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u224	There's going to be a tamper. Don't be in a hurry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u225	How can I not rush? I'm in a hurry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u226	It will become a recapitulative table and a euro of public money will not be lost. Mr. Georgiod, let's not open this conversation. This is how these works were done, in this way. That's how we got here. Well, now we're trying to clear up, see what's going on. In 2003, the legal framework that existed - we can comment on this, deliberately or unintentionally - was thus envisaged and the competitions were made. And that's how they made the money the State gave.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u227	Do you have a difference with the contractor? Why don't you tell us? Is the contractor asking you for money?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u228	It's cleared up, Mr. Georgioda, and that's where we'll find everything. From that point on, once the process, calculated by my services in three months' time, is over, the project will be received and the municipality will continue. However, the stage is used. With problems, but it's being used, Mr. Georgioda. It's not the sports community of Kilkis. At the same time, in the whole of the Kilkis Prefecture, we will incorporate the next period into the 2017 PPC, at least two projects: In the Municipality of Paionia, the construction of an anti-saving court and in Agios Petros the closed gym will be completed. And in cooperation with the municipality, which we are trying to have good cooperation and good understanding, we will see what other needs exist in the context of the new philosophy of the General Secretariat of Sports for the Projects, so that we can meet the needs of the county. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been informed by the secretariat of what questions they will not be discussing, which I am speaking on. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMARKK KEGEROGLO to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Providing clarifications in order to ensure that a company's insurance and tax information is sufficient in the case of corporate companies, in order to obtain money from the State, NWO, PTA or other bodies", will not be discussed after consultation of the State Secretary of Finance with the MP. Before I continue, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, thirty-six students and students and six educational sessions from the 14th Municipal School of Stavroupolis of Thessaloniki. We welcome you to the Greek Parliament. You have had the misfortune to come to the end of today's sitting, so you also see the Chamber empty. I am simply saying what is not going to happen at this time, because the next questions will not be answered. But you have also met Parliament's Chamber. I am continuing: The fourth question under number 752/25-4-2017, the first question of the Athens Parliamentary I of the Communist Party of Greece, Liana Kanelli, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the processing plant for the meat by-products of St. Theodores Lekanes Ilias, will not be discussed by the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr. Socrates Famelou. The third, with No. 761/254-2017, a topical question by the Independent MEP, Mr. Nicholas Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "It will be submitted for official application of Patras for the relocation of the European Medicines Agency?", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos. The second, with number 753/25-4-2017, topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the abolition or suspension of the 12th Municipal School of Thessaloniki, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Education, Research and Religion Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou. Cause, workload. The question by No 2795/23-1-2017 of the New Democracy MP, Dimitrios Kyriazides, to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: "An exception to the financial management of Drama’s Chronic Sickness Therapy" will not be discussed because the MP was satisfied with the written response he received from the Minister. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-28-S1-commons.u230	With the agreement of the House at 13.51 p.m., the sitting for Wednesday, 3 May 2017 at 10.00 p.m. is closed, on the subject of this House's work, on the agenda that has been distributed.
