ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would like to inform you of a statement by Mr Ilhan Ahmed, the Independent MEP of the Rhodope Prefecture, who informs the House that he is part of the Group of the Democratic Alliance of the PASOK - DIMAR, as well as of the acceptance of the PASOK Democratic Asylum Group - DIMAR of his accession. [[Here are the above mentioned documents, which read as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] To enter pages 2-3
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u2	Please, Madam Secretary, announce the petitions to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Six topical questions will be discussed. We begin with the timely question, which will be answered by the Deputy Minister for the Interior, Mr Nikolaos Toskas. It is the second with number 330/10-1-2017 appropriate question for the first cycle of the Athens MP of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, on the staffing of the twelve regional airports of the Greek-German consortium "FRAPORT SA". Mr Kattotis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the Greek State Convention with the ‘FRAPORT’ Consortium, according to the reports and communications of fire extinguishers, provides for the administration of the fire safety services of the regional airports with personnel of the Firehouse, starting from the beginning of the year. They also talk about employment in five hundred fire extinguishers. According to reports from the fire extinguishers associations - which we will then present to you in the Minutes - and which are quite concerned, the Fire Force Headquarters has called the first hundreds of forty six firefighters in order to train them. With his earlier announcement, on 3-1-2017, he approves the participation of ninety-three firefighting officers at the Airport Safety School. Several of them have not applied for the regional airports of the Greek-German consortium. That is, inadvertently, the transfer. This decision is of particular concern and even greater undermining of the services of the Fire Corps. A reasonable question arises as to whether a contract has been signed between the Fire Corps and the Consortium and, if so, what will be the exact number of personnel of the Fire Corps serving the regional airports? What will be the employment relationships and fees of the firefighting personnel involved in them? The granting of staff, together with the great shortages which exist in this House's staff, will be even more burdensome to the already bad situation, with the great shortages in the firefighting staff. As the staff trade unions have repeatedly pointed out, the crew of vehicles which are required to deal with incidents already have a reduced composition. The problems are even more increased during the anti-nuclear period, along with the shortcomings and problems in the logistics infrastructure and air means. The JRC considers that it is imperative, following the recent staff concession to serve regional airports, firstly, that the Government increase the budget appropriations for the regular budget, which remain reduced by approximately 130 million in the years of the capitalist crisis. Secondly, the necessary recruitment to the staff of the firefighting staff with stable and permanent relations for all personnel should be made. Thirdly, the Government must take all measures, stop the unacceptable status of the different relationships in the service with permanent five-year-old firefighters, seasonal firefighters and so on. The questions, Mr Minister, are as to whether a contract has actually been signed with the consortium and the Fire Corps and whether or not it is its content. Also, if the government makes the necessary recruitments to cover the large gaps that exist in the personnel of the Fire Corps as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u5	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u6	Thank you. Mr Katsotis, in accordance with the provisions of Law No.4389/2006 and in order for regional airports to function smoothly from next month, the main terms of agreement were signed between the Fire Corps and the company for the provision of certain fire-fighting services. The normal contract, however, has not yet been signed. It's something that needs to be done in the next few days. Under this agreement, certain fire stations have been restructured at certain airports, namely Thessaloniki, Corfu, Chania, Rhodes and Kos. New services are being established at airports that do not have a fire service - there was a Fire Service of the Civil Aviation Service so far - and these are the airports of Zakynthos, Kefalonia, Santorini, Mykonos, Mytilini, Samos, Kavala and Skiathos. The total number of thirteen airports required is five hundred four firefighters. From these firefighters, two hundred and fifty firefighters are needed for the thirteen airports and for the services that have been weakened, because we have taken staff. For example, in Samos or Mytilini they took staff for airports, so this staff must be replaced. So the number to be moved is two hundred and fifty. In these days, 200 firefighters have already been trained and the question raised is how they will be moved, how these people will actually be transferred, which will be regulated by law. However, as far as the humanitarian aspect is concerned, we are trying to make sure that they are not imposed. It is an issue which concerns us, but it must be solved immediately, because the operation of airports must begin. As you can see, the airports can't operate without the fire stations. It's a prerequisite, and you all understand that it has to be done. It is an issue that concerns us, concerns us and we believe that we are in the direction of resolution in the next period. On how it relates to another regulation, which is due - that is to say, the permanentisation of five-year obligation firefighters - from the five thousand five-year obligation firefighters, who were hired under the 2011 Act, less than half, two thousand, must be permanentised. For the rest, the five-year term should be renewed. In such a context, we are trying to fill these gaps you mentioned before.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Katsotis, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I have here announcements from the Firefighting Union of Rhodes, Volos, Skiathos, Platerio of Mytilini, Laconia, Kythera, who are protesting about this whole operation, which you had in connection with the training of these firefighters and their transfer. We disagree and join the associations that protest inadvertently. These will cause serious problems for the personnel of the Fire Corps. A large part of it will be forced to unravel, to spend much of its already cut-off income on its relocation. Of course, as we said at the outset, Mr Minister, there will be other firefighting shops of this kind, which need to be deployed with the recruitment of new personnel. It is well known that there are great deficiencies. The five-year commitment, with five-year contracts or seasonals, does not meet the needs of the Fire Corps, particularly during the period when the needs are too great. That is why we believe you should see the regulation that has been tabled to you. I have here a regulation that, if I'm not mistaken, even the U.S. Fire extinguishers testified to you the day before yesterday. It is an integrated transfer regulation, which I think you should discuss. It is an anachronistic regulation that exists to date and which confronts workers in the firefighting industry. You must make another regulation so that it is not at the expense of the workers in the firehouse that these transfers are made. I am therefore presenting in the Minutes the announcements made by the Associations of Firefighters throughout Greece which are complaining about this inadvertent transfer - transfer, as I have told you, as well as the regulation that they have tabled to you and also a memorandum that was tabled again yesterday in the light of the new anti-missile period, where they are making concrete proposals on the needs that exist and on how the Government and of course your Ministry should meet these needs in both personal and logistics. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Katsotis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Above all, Mr Minister, you must take into account the needs of the workers and the moves to be voluntary, to be close, as you said, so that there are no new problems for these workers, apart from what they have, which are many, and you know them, as we have discussed them on several occasions and have dealt with them through many questions in the previous period.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u9	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u10	Mr Katsotis, the problems of the Fire Corps really are too much. I can say - and I have said this in this Chamber before - that I doubt there is any other part of the public service state mechanism that has a more distorted structure and so many accumulated problems. This year, as I said, the five-year service of firefighters has been completed. This year is over for the five-year airplane firearms, medium and heavy. Unfortunately, the indifference of previous governments and the distorted situations are pushing us to make decisions that have an impact on staff, which in last summer's fires made huge efforts and thus reduced the impact. Firefighters in Greece, around thirteen thousand people, are enough. They are in many areas overnumbered and in other areas there is incomplete staff, i.e. there is a distorted structure and distribution of staff, as there is a distorted structure in the locations of fire stations, because you know well how these fire stations were being created. Net for rospheric purposes were planted, planted, created where party interests were served, thus creating situations that are difficult to correct. Also, refer to your question about the different working relationships with permanent firefighters, the five-year term, the seasonal firefighters. You understand how distorting job-relations grid exists within the Fire Corps. For the first time this year, he has been staffed with all-Hellenic exams, and we intend to be the way in which firefighters enter the Firehouse and not the windows or other "doors", as has been done so far, because the process has so far been seasonal five-year obligation firefighters, simulation. And then the perpetrators started underneath, which is a few thousand, who are pushing people to find a place too. So there are overnumbers. In some places there are different relationships, distortive relationships and there is anachronistic structure and there are also normal needs and needs that now arise with regional airports. We're trying through this puzzle of problems to find solutions. It's not always easy. We are doing everything we can, but unfortunately we have inherited a very distorted situation. We will, however, try to resolve the issue of transfers in the most painless way of personality, but by providing the services we are obliged to provide the regional airports. So we are considering the way I told you before, which, if implemented soon, will also resolve the issue of transfers in the most painless way, i.e. through five-year obligation firefighters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, too. The first question will be discussed under number 322/9-1-2017, a topical question by the Member of the Attica Parliament, Mr. Mavroudi Voridis, on the assassination of a gang attack against the Greek Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs - NLFK ATHI Thessaloniki. Mr. Voridis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Madam President. This incident described in the topical question, of course, occurred on 4-10-2016 and has lost its topical character, but due to postponements, partly due to my obligations and partly due to the Minister's obligations, we have come to discuss it today. I insisted that it should be discussed in the context of the timely questions, because I think there should be a clear position at some point in the overall anti-crime policy towards what is an endemic phenomenon that is plagued by Greek political life. And this is violence by organised groups of the extreme left, anarchists, anti-opposites. In this case, it has a particular austerity, because this is an indiscriminate attack on a staff of the student youth of the New Democracy, the NGO - NGO - which is being made - I stress - in an area that does not normally justify this, in a cafeteria. So this man is being attacked by an organized group. The result of this attack is a clavicle fracture, a cherry fracture left, a cracky fracture above a cliff, head injuries, half-thoracic, left elbow and coarse fruit. What are we going to do with this story? That's the question. What about this situation? What is going to happen with these groups, which are uncontrollable, does not seem to be dulled and, after all, people end up suffering such and such physical damage, which means, in fact, a real risk of life - I am ending in fifteen seconds, Madam President - risking their lives because they have opinions with which these gentlemen disagree. What about them? Because it's also a broader issue. Okay, that's a certain incident, but last week we had flushes and kalashnikovs, I guess it wasn't spirals, than I learned was a shot by fire - which is even more dangerous - targeted by MAT at PASOK outside. What about this story? How long will Greece continue to be the only country to have political violence and terrorism on the extreme left? That is the question and I would like to see whether there is a coherent policy on the part of the government which responds - and I say again - to raise the issue of organised repression of this criminal phenomenon.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u13	Mr Nikolaos Toskas has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u14	First of all, I will respond to this particular incident, which, in fact, from delays of my own and delays due to service obligations and Mr Voridis, we have not been able to discuss it before. On 4 October in Thessaloniki in a cafeteria of about fifteen people attacked the executive of NGO. He was beaten and immediately intervened by patrollers in the area from the White Tower AT, from the Square Republic, the OPEC and the DIA Group, and they go almost immediately. Unfortunately, they did not arrest the perpetrators, because they left in a very short time and then the investigations took place. The passion was called, who, of course, in the first days was in the hospital but then it has been called up to these days too many times to identify photographs of suspects but unfortunately did not come. What does that mean? It means we're doing our best. And you know what, Mr. Voridis? These days, Rupa was arrested, which the prosecution authorities have been looking for since 2012. And I could also go out all this time and say, "But you've done nothing for the arrest." And you know well that the arrest is not by one day's actions, nor by a few small attempts. It takes coordination, organization, preparation, surveillance for a very long time. This arrest was not a simple case and it was not the arrest of a paradox of terrorism. A central role, apparently, was playing that particular person. So the activity of these people has been undermined and we are happy about that. But don't baptize successes. It's a little petty, and I know you don't. As, too, I would like to say about successes throughout 2015 and 2016. I have before me what has happened within 2016 in Attica. There's something similar about Thessaloniki, etc. And I'm going to give some evidence that I got from here. The evidence of theft in Attica in 2015 was about 10%, 2016 was 23%. Changing bags in 2015 was 2%, 2016 was 30%. The arrests were sixteen thousand two hundred eighty-two in 2016. We're talking about arrests, not about incubations. That's huge hits. Yesterday four hundred pounds of hashish were seized in Arta and in the past two hundred pounds of hashish. A huge fight and huge successes exist around drugs. There are huge successes even within the Exarchies, which no one dared to take action within Exarcheia. And you know how successful he was. Here from the Step of the House I announced the success of this operation and no one had taken a hammer. Neither in Exarches nor outside Exarches nor journalists nor anyone. It was a huge business with a thousand policemen all over Greece, who again did not leak and you will see in the next few days the photos - because they were licensed by the prosecutor - about 100 members of these devastated groups, they had devastated the households throughout Greece. There are problems. They have been 'heavens' of this terrorism, which has been afflicting the country for too many years. You see the successes that happen. Magic wands do not exist, magical solutions do not exist for twenty-four hours and you know it well. And no one can have the illusion that crimes will be zeroed, just as they have not been zeroed in any country. Fortunately, with regard to other countries, even countries of Central Europe, we are very well. We're trying. We haven't tied up the problems. We make mistakes, but we try very hard and try with many problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u15	Mr. Toska, the rest in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u16	Good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u17	Mr. Voridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Madam President. If anyone recognized the success of the rupee arrest, this was the Civic Opposition, which rushed to congratulate the Greek Police on this success. The government didn't thank her very much. The Civic Opposition congratulated the Greek Police. However, I am the last person to tell you - in these discussions that we have here in Parliament on anti-crime policy issues - that it is an easy thing to arrest a terrorist. That's not what I'm saying. This, indeed, is a complex and complex police operation, precisely because terrorists are burdened with a level of crime further and because they are organising their action, they are obviously defending and organising their non-exception. It's not the same for phenomena that are diffuse, like these here. Because I hear you say the police immediately intervened. But how do fifteen people suddenly get organized and beaten? This is not a unique phenomenon. Because the other day, they went and burned down the Polytechnic another fifteen people. Some other days they had an armed parade of these kinds. So here we have a endemic phenomenon with specific actions and dimensions from specific identified political spaces anarchists, anti-powered, extreme left. So that's what I'm saying, that's what I'm talking about. We are not here in cruel terrorism. It's not the hard core that took the revolver, a closed group of three, five people, which makes murderous blows. Here we have a different phenomenon, a different criminal activity. That is not the answer you need to give me. That's why I insist. What's the plan? Is there a concrete plan that is geared to addressing this phenomenon that is spreading within society? Political terrorism is being crossed into the neighborhoods of this type. Secondly, because you have opened the debate - a little more time, with your tolerance, Madam President, as you have rightly said - on what is happening at the level of dealing with crime, it is wrong to have a false picture here. Because, I say again, there are experienced realities of the whole or in any case very large populations of the Greek people, who will not agree with your statistics. Zephy's suffering. The menu is suffering. The White Tower Newbuilts are suffering. All Eastern Attica and North Attica suffer from thefts. We have now opened the debate, because you have opened it with data, and I am therefore allowed to go to that reply. So if the minister comes in and says 'we have them burned up, some problems we have, but things are good', then I beg your pardon, how can these people expect things to go well? They can't wait for improvement, because you say things are going well. If you agreed that things were bad and difficult, they'd say that man understood something. But if you say things are good and there is no problem, then desperation begins now well and is nurtured within them. Beware of this - and it is perhaps even constant disagreement - we do not treat the criminal systemic activity with an arrest, however great it may be. Why? Because here we have an organized crime, in your case. In organized crime, you get two hundred pounds of drugs, but if you don't get the brain of the criminal organization, the organization continues its activity, it doesn't get anything at all. Some just go to jail, but the structure goes on. The ghosts go to use the military term - prison, but the brains, the generals of the criminal organization continue. Here, then, we need another philosophy, another doctrine, another concept, especially for the regions that have this problem, and from there on, and for the treatment of criminal organisations. And that doesn't seem to exist. And the time goes on, Minister. And, indeed, I will agree with you, that in twenty-four hours, these things are not solved, but in two years, they must be dealt with. I am not saying that you will eliminate crime, nobody will claim that, but I say that there must be indicators showing that there is a reduction. And here our collective quote, our collective picture, is that this is not the case, but exactly the opposite.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u19	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u20	Mr. Voridis, just for indicators I spoke before. You know what? It's not a good thing micropsy. It does not characterize you, and that is why I would say to you to discuss whenever you want, because now it is not enough time, in my office or anywhere, on the issue of crime, in the West Attica and elsewhere. You know well how inaccessible the West Attica was for the police forces, for the citizens and for anyone. You are well aware of the huge problems that exist and exist in West Attica, because you live them, anyway, as a Member of the region. We sent armored vehicles. We sent staff, we're doing business. Most of the Roma arrested by about a hundred - in the next few days, Thursday, you'll see that photos will also come from these regions. Yesterday the leader of this criminal organization was arrested, who I believe will also reveal some things. We therefore do not hesitate to act in these areas. But do you know how many problems these areas had accumulated, why were those areas abandoned? As the Exarches had been abandoned, the West Attica had been abandoned. The patrols had been abandoned. I'm sorry, we can't in a year that I'm a minister to take immediately patrols, most of which are sarcastic with over three hundred thousand and some more than five hundred thousand miles. We've started the procedures to get seven hundred in the first phase. We found money, we redirected European money to get it. But you know, the competitions want some time. And we'll get them, because since August the competition has begun. We're trying. I didn't say either that the crime had been zeroed or that everything was nice. Please just use my words. I have said that in many cases we need to present things as they are, with the numbers that they are, with the problems that exist. Do not baptise, for example, fanatical violence about other things. When we started with Exarchia, the information coming from this area was almost zero and now there are a lot of them. When we started in Exarchia, I was right to think that we should hit the drugs that go into Exarchia first and then the other criminal groups. The assessment was correct, but the assessment was correct without information, initiatives and projects that first started when I took over. This government does not hesitate to strike down the crime. There are huge problems. You know it. There are problems throughout the country. There are imported drugs from other countries that have become a source of drugs, not only for our country but for the whole of Europe. These have been exposed internationally and I will not mention the names of countries at this stage, but we are taking measures with both police forces and our diplomatic efforts. It's a constant struggle. There is the refugee, which has its own problems, the police are struggling on many fronts and policemen are struggling as well. You know, there haven't been any problems with cops. Most of these people work friendlyly. Where there are problems, of course, the axe is ruthless and in some cases you will hear in the next few days that we do not hesitate to put the knife where the problem is. We're doing everything we can. Every proposal and every debate on these issues is welcome. But you also help with the right opposition tactics and attitude rather than the daily attack, which started early this summer - a guerrilla war on these issues - like all sides of Parliament in order to improve the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, too. The third question, with number 309/4-1-2017, will be discussed now in the context of a topical question by Mr Diamantos Manolakos to the Minister of Economy and Development on the Greek Sugar Industry (EBZ). The Deputy Minister of Economy and Development will answer Mr. Alexander Haritsis. Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u22	Thank you. The truth is that sugar is a very good product with many advantages. In other words, it has a long commercial duration, it is a product that each house needs, as well as many branches of the economy. So sugar production is one of the most productive processes. It connects the primary sector with three thousand customs producers - previously much more - and with processing, the Greek Sugar Industry, with hundreds of permanent and seasonal workers. However, instead of developing this production process, modernising and developing further, and logging and the Greek Sugar Industry, it goes from bad to worse, since all governments implemented the European Union's Regulations, imposing quotas, drastic reductions in production, closure of factories, aimed at collecting and centralising the industry. Over the past five years the Greek Sugar Industry has been devalued and the permanent problem is that the cheese producers deliver production, but are not paid in time and are always concerned about what they will do. But the new one we have is the government's plan to sell assets, "fillet" of the Greek Sugar Industry and especially the two profitable factories in Serbia. This is how it deprives the Sugar Industry of substantial revenues and will, of course, lead to death more quickly, conducive to customs farming and its workers, when the country is able to develop and fully satisfy domestic needs, thus reducing production costs. The Government claims that the debts of the Sugar Industry to the creditor bank were the cause of the divestment. However, about 35% are high interest rates that it has put up and should have been deleted and you should have demanded it along with a deletion of some of the debt paid, when the creditor has absorbed the Agricultural Bank, with the benefit of billions. Your demand should therefore be strong. In fact, as a opposition, SYRIZA had often criticised the path of depreciation of the Greek Zacharis industry. But as a government, you do not help its development, but you speed up the course of her death. You'll give the death certificate after all. There are delays in the payments of the customs producers. It's in the uncertainty. In fact, they are prevented from re-production and, of course, the sale of basic assets really undermines the existence of the Sugar Industry. Of course, there will be monopolies and banks and funds through this process. What do we ask of you? Firstly, you must take measures and demand that you delete interest and some of the debts that the Sugar Industry has. Secondly, to pay back the customs producers who have delivered them. Thirdly, to cancel the sale of the profitable sugar mills in Serbia and fourthly, to redesign for the survival and development of the butter-growing and sugar-making industry, to fully satisfy the needs of our people, which means doubling production. And, of course, you are also dealing with unemployment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u23	Thank you. Mr. Haritsis has the floor for three minutes. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Manolakos, as you rightly point out in your question, but also in the position we have just heard, the issue with the Greek Sugar Industry goes back many years and has to do with the time-consuming responsibilities of the governments of the previous years and the problems that have accumulated in this very important operation for northern Greece, for the whole of the Greek economy. I should just like to mention a few very important points. We are talking about a company that was degraded and indebted, when the SYRIZA government took over with negative own funds of more than EUR 65 million as a result of previous uses and administrations, for a company in which there has never been a substantial interest in upgrading its infrastructure and functions, but every time the previous governments proceeded with ongoing loans to cover weaknesses and thus accumulate debts, while, of course, there have been many challenging commercial decisions, which have increased the debts of the company even further. As a result of all this mismanagement of previous years, it has been the fact that over the last decade the company has been damaged, and so has the factories in Serbia until 2015. For 2016, Serbia's factories actually presented profitability, while overall the Group through a change in the management and management of the new administration, appointed by our Government, managed to reduce to a very significant extent the damage and from the 56 million in 2015 to the 19 million in 2016. This downward trend in all previous years was therefore beginning to be reversed. However, because you are also referring to the agreement with Piraeus Bank, and rightly so, because it is a very important part of how we go further, I should like to mention very briefly what the basic actions the government has taken over the last two years in order to be able to raise this very important business. First of all, in March 2015, an increase in the share capital of EUR 30 million was made in order to cover part of the company's debt to the producers, but also to continue to operate uninterruptedly. In relation to Piraeus Bank, as you know, the debt we inherited amounts to 160m euros, so the Greek State as the main shareholder of the Greek industry is 82.3% through ATE in liquidation. Here I will say that, of course, the history of ATE is well known to everyone and under no circumstances can the current government assume the responsibilities of those who led the Agricultural Bank to the known divestment process. So the government - and this did - had to renegotiate with the Piraeus Bank a specific operational restructuring plan for the company. This plan includes a write-down by one-third of the total debt by the Bank of Greece, a repayment of one-third of the debts by means of the sale of the company’s productive and non-productive assets and a adjustment of the outstanding debt with a two-year grace period. There is no here - and I would like to point out - issue of deletion of interest. The question was to renegotiate the company's obligations to the Bank in order to be able to draw up an integrated restructuring plan, which will enable the company to continue operating and to develop. The sale of the two production units of Serbia is therefore part of this overall agreement. It was, of course, not a choice of our Government, but it was an acceptable way of debating debt and providing liquidity under these difficult circumstances. More important to us - and I think that we can agree on this - is the issue with factories in Greece. The aim of the Greek Government is to reopen the factories in Greece and to allow workers to return to their jobs and to be able to sell their products to Greece. That's why I'd like to point out, so that the impressions aren't created...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Haritsis, you can tell your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u26	Wait a minute, Madam President. Serbia's factories do not use as raw beet from Greece, but only from Serbia. The factories in Greece were therefore crucial to reoperate so that they could exploit domestic production. Open up, as you know very well, the factory in Orestiad. Our goal in the next few months is to open up the Serres plant. Yesterday, I also had the opportunity to visit the area to have a meeting with the workers, who have the same will. One final word on the debts to producers. The 2015 debt, amounting to EUR 9.5 million, has now been repaid after this agreement as a whole, while in 2016 an advance payment of nearly 39% has been paid and by the end of January 2017 there will be a full repayment of all debts.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u27	You have the floor, Mrs Manolakou, for three minutes. I say it, of course, but who keeps it...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u28	I will respect it as much as I can, Madam President. You have described the responsibilities of the previous governments, but you have not described the responsibilities of the European Union, Minister. Because when the European Union puts you a quota and reduces production to half, it will of course close factories. And not only did they close in Greece, they also closed in other Member States, so the monopoly was gigantic. This is the aim of the European Union's regulations. Basically - now don't fool each other - a factory has been operating in the last few years in Platy. Can this situation be reversed? Look at you, you say you disagreed with ATE and the way it was given. But, see, you go and do tax checks for the past few years, which you haven't been a government. Why, in other words, do you not open up such issues that were challenging in the end, so that you can also save such productive industries for the people? Because every year there is a problem of paying the customs producers. Why do we put it on? But if you don't have the raw material, you can't operate the local factories, which you say is what you're targeting. You gave them 40 percent. These people should have been paid off since December. And now you're saying you're planning for the end of February. But Flevair authorities are starting to sowing. If there's no field in which you'll be planted, how will you secure raw material? And last year exactly the same problem existed and we were pressing you and asking questions again. Do you know what farmers say? They say that customs farming is a gifted girl, but only in words. I guess you heard them yesterday in the Serres. Secondly, the divestment of factories in Serbia was a request from the creditor bank, Piraeus Bank, which was pushing you back and you were resisting. And what did he mean? She was aiming to redeem her portfolio. She doesn't care about the social needs, the interests of the country. Her God is her gain. That's how it works. What are you doing right now? You adopted it. That's what you're doing. Under the pretext of rescuing her you satisfy her request. Thirdly, describe what measures you have taken. Let me remind you of something. It's not the 30 million you gave in 2015. We proposed that you then give from the NRP 2007-2013. Yet more than 900 million, which you returned to the European Union. In the amendment that you had in March 2016, you could oriented them into modernising the plants if you were aiming to develop them. These factories are the '70s. You know that. They would have told you. So your proposal does not give any prospects for either customs production or the sugar industry. It gives perspective for the competitors, for the monopoly, for the bank. Is there anything I can tell you? The sugar industry may be devalued, but it is considered a very fertile bride. That's how it happens every time. When it comes to giving something, you deceive it for the capitalist to get it as cheaply as possible. We say that both producers and workers in the sugar industry must draw their own political conclusions. Above all, we must take a dynamic and massive place in the face of the rural mobilisations of the farm. Finally, the Communist Party of Greece will also support the struggles of the customs producers, as it did last year, and of the workers to keep this dynamic cultivation with fully active and productive sugar factories for the need of the people. This is what we mean to develop to the benefit of the people rather than the financial capital and the monopolies. And you, with this proposal you are promoting, are actually putting tombstones. You'll give a death certificate. We call not only on the workers and farmers to fight for this production process to remain, but we say that a definitive solution is the overthrow of this policy and the change in power.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Haritsis, you have the floor. Please, soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u30	I will try, Madam President. We agree on something, Mrs Manolakou, that workers and farmers should draw their conclusions. And their conclusions start with the fact that while all previous governments were closing down sugar factories, we were the first government after all these years that we opened up factories. The conclusion is that 2016 was the first year in which the downward trend in crops was reversed. We've had a 25% increase in tectocolecules and 23% increase in sugar production. Also, as I told you before, it was the first time that we managed to reverse this catastrophic course, which had been followed in all previous years for the Greek Sugar Industry and for the first time we had a loss reduction. Of course, we inherited a situation that was very difficult and which we are trying to manage. And this agreement, which we have negotiated and which we are implementing, is the only solution to enable the industry to stand on its feet. As regards the related aid of 2015 to customs producers, we have managed to double it, as you well know, from EUR 25 to EUR 52 per acre. So there are several positive indications that this procession, which started in the last year and which includes both the crop and the processing, will continue in the next period. The aim is to keep the factories in Greece operational, to absorb domestic production from factories in Greece. That's our design. We will continue to work in this direction. And we are sure - and this proves and the evidence I have just mentioned - that we will eventually succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u31	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a statement to this House. The Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics shall submit its reports to the Prosecutor's requests for permission to prosecute Members of Parliament. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take into account the fact that the Committee of Inquiry into the legality of lending to political parties and the owners of media companies from the banking institutions of the country, set up in accordance with Articles 144 et seq. of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and for which the plenary has set a deadline for submitting its findings until today, 16 January 2017, calls, on its decision, a short-lived extension of the deadline for submitting the conclusion by 23 January 2017. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u32	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u33	I hear you, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Madam President. We must give not one, but two and three weeks in committee, but we must make a few comments. Firstly, this has already been made public today, and this is unfair vis-à-vis Parliament, which the committee is asking for an extension. The second point is that the assent is requested by Parliament. Of course, if, according to the Rules of Procedure, you consider plenary on the day of parliamentary scrutiny, at least they are representatives of all the parties here or most. We are only representatives of three parties, because we still have questions. If, in other words, the question of the Communist Party had been finalised, and the Members who have no questions were missing, where would you apply? Thirdly, if you consider it to be a plenary, then I would ask you, because every time you tell them children here from the Bureau and you personally, that: "Look, today is a day of parliamentary scrutiny, and they are not obliged to be the Members, because it is not a plenary, but only the questioner and the respondent", to justify the seat permits, I would ask you not to say so again, not to lie to the young people who visit this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u35	I am not saying: 'They are not required'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u36	It's over and I'm done. It is eight days of parliamentary scrutiny in the month in which no attendance is received. If, therefore, it is a plenary session, I would ask you to be absent and so far as they are concerned, since five days a month, if Members are not here, the compensation is curtailed, to observe the Rules of Procedure. So please tell the President that we are neither formal nor essentially in plenary session and bring it tomorrow, which is the bill on plenary or Wednesday, without having any objection for a week, but we would give twenty days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u37	Mr Kegeroglu, we have said this at noon at the Conference of Presidents and you are also unfair, because all that you could say there was nothing there, but there was no television I imagine.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u38	What you're saying is none of my business, because it's got TV on the outside, and I can do whatever I want.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u39	You didn't say that there. There has been a whole debate on whether it is a plenary or not a plenary. It's a plenary, then.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u40	Please very much, we will be talking about what is happening here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u41	That's what we're talking about, Mr. Kegeroglu. Keep going, though. First of all, that. Two...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u42	The Conference did not take a decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u43	Sit down, I'm talking now. I didn't interrupt you. Sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u44	We did not have the right to an opinion either, because it is not a decision of the Conference. Then don't ask us to give our assent here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u45	Secondly, when I inform the students who are coming, I do not inform them that they are not obliged to come. I'm explaining them why he has so little presence.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u46	You're not telling the truth, Madam President. Aren't they obliged to come to plenary?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u47	That's not what I'm saying. Not even now you're not listening, much less the other thing I'm saying. I'm not saying they don't have to. I'm explaining why they're not here. And you, when you don't have a question, are not there. So don't do a theater now. When you don't have a question, neither do you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u48	To curtail the compensation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u49	Please. At the time when the deadline was expired there was no decision because the committee was meeting in the afternoon. We're all legal. This is a complete process. We've said that for years. You, who are an older MEP, should know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u50	To curtail the compensation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u51	The deadline is now over and the debate will take place today. If you want, don't vote. We discussed this at noon at three o'clock. You could have submitted your objections and not find the place here to do your fermentation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u52	Don't lie.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u53	That is not what honours you in Parliament. It doesn't honor you. What do you want now? Who do you want to inform?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u54	What doesn't honor me being told by the citizens, not by you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u55	So you're talking to the citizens. You are not talking about the parliamentary procedure regulated by the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u56	Is this a recommendation from the Conference or from the Committee?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u57	Go to the Constitution to speak. Take a shower and say what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u58	Question, Madam President: Is it a recommendation from the Conference or from the Committee?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u59	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u60	Is this a recommendation from the Conference or from the Committee?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u61	The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u62	Is this a recommendation from the Conference or from the Committee? That's what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u63	You could raise all these objections at the Conference. That's where you didn't say a word.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u64	Is it a recommendation from the Conference or from the Commission?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u65	You are now coming here and you are stalling a whole process.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u66	Not provided. Is it a recommendation from the Conference or from the Commission?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u67	In all, it is a responsibility, and now it is debated in plenary.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u68	Everything is responsible? Are you serious?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u69	It is not my fault that they are not representatives of the other parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u70	Madam President, may I have the floor for thirty seconds?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u71	Please have the floor for thirty seconds. We will not now monopolize the debate to hold a dialogue. The papers will be written. They also make progress with previous dialogues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u72	What are they gonna write about?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u73	That you're very legitimate, and you're interested in everything you want. Please, Mr. Theonas.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u74	Thank you very much, Madam President. I appreciate and have always expressed my appreciation to my colleague Vassilis Kegeroglou. However, I just want to say a word here now. I often monitor parliamentary dialogue. I like the conversation that's taking place, etc. It's not my questions. Still, I'm watching them. I do not accept any compensation for this monitoring from now on. It cannot be considered that Members are attending plenary sittings for economic reasons to receive compensation. I don't want that compensation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u75	Mr. Theonas, these are secondary issues. I shall therefore put the matter to the vote. On a proposal by a majority of the Committee...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u76	Madam President, I would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u77	You want to say something? You're welcome, Mr. Katsotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u78	You are now raising a matter for the vote, which is only the Democratic Reconciliation and the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u79	And what can we do, Mr. Katatotis?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u80	It's not me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u81	So, what if we leave?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u82	Mr. Kegeroglu isn't. He's gone.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u83	Here you go. There's no one else.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u84	So what do we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u85	Do not put it, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u86	It can't be done, Mr. Katsotis. There are procedures. What can we do? It is the first Plenary Session after the deadline.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u87	At a time when there are only two parties here, and they do not constitute - so to speak - a majority of them, you cannot put it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u88	All parties are informed that this afternoon the proposal for an extension will be put to the vote. It was all the parties, all the representatives of the parties at the Conference of Presidents, which took place at noon at 3 p.m. Whoever he wanted, he could tell the parties to come here to disagree.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u89	When the parties are here and represent a majority, you must put it, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u90	Which parties? Where is he?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u91	Now they are not parties that are a majority of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u92	I don't understand that. This is substantiated and it's over. That's always it. That has been decided by the committee itself. You don't do it first. The committee has done it. It has decided by majority to extend. What do you want? Be one of you, Mr. Katsotis, lawmakers, with the civil system? Come on out, you guys.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u93	You know, mocking ourselves?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u94	Come on out, so you don't charge the extension. Did you ever hear of that? I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Okay? We'll all be legal, and you'll all speak here for three minutes. It's over. We will not do whatever we want and where we like it, we will talk about regulation and where we do not like it, we will not speak. Okay?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u95	How much more did we talk about?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u96	Everybody. I'm not just talking about you. The committee, as we have said, decided by a majority to extend for a week. Do you agree? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u97	But there's no majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u98	Whoever's there. It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u99	We say what our representative told the committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u100	And how do I know what he said? Whatever he said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u101	Come on, let's go! How do you know?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u102	You say.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u103	In committee, our representative agreed. What can we agree on?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u104	You must say that you agree to be extended.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u105	It is a plenary decision, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u106	Hey, that's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u107	Is this part-session here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u108	If they want to go out or they're not interested in coming, what do we do? I can explain to you: at 3 p.m. we had a Conference of Presidents. It was the first issue the President of Parliament raised. He said about the afternoon he's considered a plenary. The exercise of parliamentary control is a plenary. The fact that they don't come does not concern anyone. That's what I'm telling you. Mr. Kegeroglu, who knows the Rules of Procedure, came out. What can I say? What do you say from SYRIZA? Do you agree to an extension?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u109	We agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u110	Mr. Theonas agrees. You're telling the JRC what your representative said to the committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u111	Yes, but this agreement does not constitute a plenary decision. That's what we're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u112	That's not an answer. So the House agreed by a majority and the experts in the House will decide what was and what was not what we did today, because these are unprecedented things. Series is the first with number 1122/11-11-2016 question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on improving the conditions for the granting of benefits to uninsured over-ages. The Deputy Minister of Labour will answer Mr. Petropoulos. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u113	Madam President, let me tell you that we have not disputed that the President has referred to this House or anything else, but that we are in a real plenary session. We are not in a party plenary, nor in a plenary, as you can count. Mr. Petropoulou, on a point that has been dealt with, I have tabled the question. It is about the pre-pension pension for the elderly. He went through various waves. Finally, the provision of Law No.4387/2016, where I think there is an injustice. While, in other words, a limit of EUR 4.320 is introduced to the applicant's or the application's income - at the same time in the family of EUR 8,460, twice - a third limit of the spouse or wife is also introduced, as appropriate, to be up to EUR 4.320. What does that mean? I would like to give you an example of making the point of injustice clearer, which I am referring to. If we have an applicant with EUR 4.300 or an applicant and the wife or wife has EUR 4.300, the total income is EUR 8.600, covers all cases and receives a pension. If we have an applicant or an applicant with zero income and the wife or wife have 4,500 euros, so total income of 4,500 euros, they are not entitled. In one case, therefore, the couple of the elderly with 8,620 euros is entitled to pension, whereas EUR 4,500 is not entitled to it. That injustice if we could fix it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u114	Mr. Petersburg, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u115	Sooner because the problem is known. It has been in force since 1982. The rules laid down by our Government have not been laid down by Law 1296/1982. What we did with Law No.4387, the insurance law, is to change the unfavourable arrangements imposed by Law 4093/2012, so it ceased to pay this allowance to the uninsured elderly, or because they received any pension - even EUR 40, for example, which was the pension for the perpetrators of the National Resistance during the struggles against the conquerors - or because they had less than twenty years of stay in Greece. These conditions were forbidden, resulting in 1/3 of those receiving a pension by 2012 to stop receiving the relevant benefits. And they lost 1/3 just because they didn't have twenty years of stay in Greece. So these two and nothing else have changed. Mr Kegeroglu, I understand the logic of your thoughts. We didn't get into this regulation. I repeat that we have met these conditions, as they existed since 1982. If in future we can return to the mind of the 1982 legislator, because we will have a Roman social security system, it is something that remains to be seen. In logic I have no objections. But in practice, what we have now managed to do is to re-establish regulations that were abolished by your own government and what we have done at the moment was to make as much as possible the conditions for a better social security system.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u116	Mr. Kegerolwa, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u117	That's half the truth. Rehabilitation of Law 4093/2012, if I am not mistaken, was made by Mr. Army in May 2015. Only in October 2015, if I remember correctly, Mr. Army's arrangements were abolished and returned in a different way to L.4387. Half the truth, however, you said about 1982. And I will prove to you that the provision for the total income of EUR 8 640 is unnecessary when one sees the provision that has recently been introduced for husband's income. First, in 1982 there were no designations of ‘taxable’, ‘confidential’, ‘objective value’, etc. These laws came much later and were incorporated much later. Therefore, additional restrictions were introduced that frustrate the weak. I do not doubt that there might have been either in the original criteria, in the two of at least three or even in the third. But today, under the additional conditions, we have to lift them. Because this amount of EUR 4.320 or EUR 8 640 can also be obtained from evidence, from objective expenditure, from home and car. There may be an old house and an old car in the village and it's over, it doesn't take. Then, of course, it would be considered homeless and go into another program, you'll tell me. Here, then, I think it is good that you agree that this is a matter. But, why is there the total family income of 4,840 euros? If you have the limitation of the applicant or the applicant to have up to EUR 4.420 and the husband or wife to have an income of up to EUR 4.320, it is understood that the family is up to there. It's unnecessary. So it's obvious that the husband's income was added after. That's what I'm telling you. Look at it. I haven't studied it since 1982, you said. But those who gave you the information should tell you and when this additional insurance link was added. Otherwise, it doesn't make any sense. It's got to be about the whole thing. Well, it's unfair. It is not unfair for those who have a total income of 8,640 euros to receive the pension, but it is unfair not to take the couple or the family who has an income of 4,500 euros. That is what I wanted to say, Mr President. Minister, we need to see this. Your intention is acceptable, but do it more specific, not in the endless future. The applications are now being examined.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u118	Here, Mr. Petropoulou, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u119	It has been four years since it was abolished and we have brought in a regulation that was faced with a blatant problem of injustice, which in this world could not be solved differently. Mr Kegeroglu, since 1982 as a criterion, income has been based on the way in which the minimum pension of the OGA was determined. The matching is exactly the same, EUR 360 a month, EUR 4.320 a year, both EUR 8 640. This was the criterion for the 1982 law already laid down by the legislature when it first paid this pension to the over-age insurers, as it was introduced to be. And you must admit that this move from the side of our government was facing a problem that was badly caused by your own government. Take that!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u120	We voted for the'military law'!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u121	If it really broke through a period of dispute, which, in this Chamber too, was developed with those who said that we should not take any measures that favour the weak - which was repeated on our legislative initiative to grant the low-pension workers this aid we gave in December 2016 - you know very well that the political opposition that was developing here from various political wings that blindly oppose our Government, the creditors who pushed in October 2015, abolish the original provision for insecure overages. We made a commitment at that time that we would soon bring in a provision that would resolve this issue and do so. This is the result of our own firm commitment to supporting the weak and those who have the lowest potential to live decently. We did it. We will, of course, also do everything we need in the future through a stronger social security system.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr. Petropoulou. Athanasios Vardalis, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, will now be discussed on the second question of the second question of the Greek Parliamentary II of the Communist Party of Greece, Athanasios Vardalis, Minister for Social Affairs and Social Solidarity, concerning the problem of the employees of the Supermarket "AFOI KARYPIDIS S.A.". The question will be answered by the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Efi Ahtsoglou. Here, Mr Vardalis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, I imagine that you are aware of the problem of the workers at the supermarkets 'AFOI KARYPIDIS S.A.'. This month, one year will be completed without entering the house. And it's not just that there's been no part of the house for a year - that is, they owe them a year's dues - but the workers themselves are obliged to pay for light, water, tax, the various rafts you're putting them on top. Moreover, as things have evolved for this operation, they have also the uncertainty whether they will have or will not have a job tomorrow and it seems that they are most likely that they will not. Madam President, our opinion is this: All this time, the employer has found your own policy worthy of support. All this time you accepted through the tripartite projects supposedly of company development and survival, various partnerships that would do and all that, of course, went for a walk. You have advised workers to accept and consent to such an employer's plans for the development of the company and, of course, to be patient. Even an exceptional allowance of 1,000 euros, which you have set them up for four months, you have not given yet. Only promises and in practice nothing. Despite any undertaking's commitments, not only the problems have not been solved, not only remain the problems of workers, but it seems that the company is going for a lock-up. There are various right and left, that it already puts a lock on its stores, what it owns and has made deals - we do not know whether the information is correct or not - a number of other chains to sell the shops along with the products of course and by putting the workers on the ground to remain unpaid. Questions are in particular, Minister: What will you do to ensure that workers get their jobs, but that insurance contributions are paid by the employer? Secondly, if the company or parts of the firm changes its hands, what will you do to ensure that jobs are permanently and permanently employed, with full employment, wages and insurance rights? Finally, what is going to happen with this allowance that your Ministry has promised for four months that it will be given to the workers? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u124	Mrs. Ahchioglu, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u125	Ladies and gentlemen, the protection of workers and the safeguarding of their rights is a central pillar of the work of this government and of the Ministry of Labour. We work in this direction every day. The case of KARYPIDIS and its employees has been employing the Ministry of Labour for too many months and continues to worry about it today. The position of the Ministry of Labour at each meeting, in each negotiation, at each trialogue, was initiated by a basic condition which was clear to the undertaking, any plan should include payment of all the wages paid to the employees on the one hand and, on the other, any plan for the reopening of the company on the other, on the other hand, conditional on compliance with labour law. The attitude of the company, however, has been at least unreliable. The company presented proposals which could not be accepted as they were based on the reduction of employee employees due or on proposals which included redundancy or deterioration of their contracts in the later situation. But I do not hide from you that I am surprised that you are accusing the ministry of conceiving the operation, of washing his hands, of being patient, of accepting the decisions of the employer. I would remind you, in order to restore the truth, that dozens of checks have been carried out by all the local agencies of the Labour Inspectorate. Tens of sanctions have been imposed. We have repeatedly pointed out that any requirement of the company to relinquish workers' claims for paid remuneration, in breach of the mandatory provisions of the law, is void. We have repeatedly pointed out at the trialogue meetings, which have taken place, that no proposal can be accepted which includes a reduction in the number of recruits due, and we have repeated this in public. I don't have to convince you. The company itself, with a press release, denounces the Ministry of Labour that it puts gravel on business and that it criminalizes entrepreneurship. This support, this coverage, do you see there being between the Ministry of Labour and the operation? That doesn't look like cover. We have pointed out and made clear during the tripartite and negotiations that the proposals allegedly put forward by the company to offset the OAU's allowance, wage cuts, paid debts 50%, changes in contracts with 20% reductions, etc. are not accepted as they are not lawful. There are the relevant decisions of the Labour Inspectorate and the relevant announcements by local authorities. With regard to the allowance, the emergency aid, we have taken the necessary steps to pay the exceptional financial assistance of EUR 1 000 per employee. The relevant joint ministerial decision has already been signed by the political leadership of the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Interior, pending the final signature by the relevant Minister of Finance and within a few days the workers will receive the allowance of EUR 1,000.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u126	Mr. Vardalis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u127	Madam Minister, this is not particularly what we see, but what workers see themselves. I do not know if you have ever talked to the workers in this company, but I have done so on several occasions and not personally, but as a Communist Party of Greece. That's what happened very recently. The workers themselves, therefore, see no support for your business policy. In order to be more specific, because generalities do not have a place in this debate, we have once again a well-known phenomenon, companies going bankrupt and entrepreneurs leaving rich. The specific businessman, who is now speaking about, is not only continuing his business, but is also a major shareholder of an anonymous football company. He makes transfers, pays players and workers in his business, has them a year unpaid. Today, if you go to the different websites, it is said that the same businessman has done cooperation with players and has closed them down. This is today. Today makes the transcriptions. With what money? Where does he get the money? Shouldn't the government intervene in such matters? Second matter. You say you support the workers. Did you show or show no tolerance? Apart from what you have said, which is, of course, correct and we do not question, under the pressure of workers and the complaints of workers in the labour inspection. Work inspection should have been and is obliged to check and impose a fine where necessary. You did that. We are not questioning these issues. However, the various projects which we have mentioned before, and while you have made this a precondition - in words, you have said that, we do not dispute that - in fact, you have supported them. You supported these business actions, these business plans. Of course, within the tripartite - within one of them I was personally - you told the workers that they had to agree and that only the prospect of securing their jobs is for them something positive. Such plans provided for. Let me tell you one more thing. This operation hasn't paid the Christmas present. Over a hundred seventy employees sued. You know it's self-evident. And yet, he's on the loose, and no one's bothering him. He's been making transfers today that we're talking about. Such support! What can I say now? Or else I'd call it me. KARYPIDIS S.A., Minister, as part of its discharge of responsibility and obligations towards workers, proceeds to secret agreements with MARKET IN. The latter provided the stores with goods - look out, there was no formal agreement - and the workers at the end of the day submitted the receipts on behalf of MARKET IN. What was your intervention in this? Was that legal? We arrived here today, yesterday and the last day before closing the last shops, sending bracelets, putting locks, such as at the store in Toumba or in Veroia, and these goons being arrested by the police following complaints from the workers. Of course, I told you what it sounds right and left, that it sells its stores at MARKET IN, MASUT, and possibly VASILOPOULOS. For all this, there is no intervention from your Ministry. I'd say he's just a spectator. Madam Minister, workers in particular are asking for specific answers on this matter. There is Presidential Decree 178/2002 and the corresponding European Union Directive. Even if parts of the company go into other hands and continue the same activity in these shops, then the new employer is obliged to take the workers with the same rights and the same contracts. Business groups do not want that exactly. What are you going to do? This is where we want a concrete answer. The workers are waiting for her. Of course, I had more to tell you, but time won't allow us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u128	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u129	Because you said that at this stage of generalities they would not be accepted, I told you that the regional labour relations inspectorate's shops have done everything possible so far. Ten lawsuits have been filed from the stores of Imathia and twenty-nine lawsuits have been filed. From the Halkidiki Prefecture stores there have been tripartite meetings and press releases for entrepreneurial debts, while the Serres of the Serres have sued them for the debt of entrepreneurs. These are all actions taken by the Ministry of Labour and the Labour Inspectorate. I will submit to the Minutes all the actions, so that Members will also be aware of all the actions taken by the local labour inspectorate's inspection services. I would also like to make another point in the Minutes, because you refer to your question that workers are not being informed. All employees shall be informed. I therefore also agree with the minutes of the last three-day meetings at the Ministry of Labour, where the workers are present. [[At this point, Minister Efi Ahtsoglou submits for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] In relation to the Christmas gift, there has been a self-contained criminal procedure for not paying the Christmas gift - you will see it in the Minutes I have tabled - and administrative and criminal sanctions have been imposed. With regard to Presidential Decree 178/2002, no one refuses that, in the event of a transfer of a company, all the employment relationships in any new scheme should be respected as they were before and that there should be no burden and no worsening of the working conditions. This has been noted by the Ministry of Labour since the first time in the meetings and in the tripartite meetings that are taking place. The Ministry of Labour has also explained that it is not possible for any urban transfer scheme, such as the prerogative, to have any agreement to worsen working conditions. And that has been clarified. In relation to the project that existed for transfer to a third undertaking or to an agreement with a third undertaking, because this was mentioned by the company ‘KARYPIDIS’, in the context of the independent investigation carried out by the Office for Law Enforcement, the company was invited within six days of notification of the Workplace Dispute Order to present to the service any agreement with a third undertaking, such as ‘MARKET IN’, in order to check the part relating to compliance with labour law. The company did not provide the information requested and the competent authority received a check sheet and initiated the penalties provided for. I think it is clear after all that the Ministry of Labour is on the workers' side. Despite difficulties, he is trying to give a solution as soon as possible in the most effective way. But, you know, the solutions are not just given to the big problems. Well, it's not enough for a patient to tell him that he needs to get well, that the patient has to be healthy. He has to work to heal. So I think the Ministry of Labour does that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u130	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the first under number 321/9-1-2017, a topical question from the New Democracy MP, Mr Constantine Javara, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, regarding the suspension of the professional activity of the members of the Government, is not being discussed due to a workload of the Minister. Also, the second question is not discussed under number 115/10-10-2016 by the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Finance on excise duty on wine due to a workload of Mr. Tsakalotou. The same is included in the document of the Secretary-General of the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Friday 11 November 2016, Monday 14 November 2016 and Thursday 17 November 2016 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u131	The minutes of Friday 11 November 2016, Monday 14 November 2016 and Thursday 17 November 2016 were therefore validated. We are now entering the debate on the last time question. It is the fourth under number 329/10-1-2017 topical question by MP II Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister for Migration Policy, concerning measures to protect refugees and migrants from brutality. Mr Kattotis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I will begin with the questions: what are you going to do, so that no refugee and immigrant stay on stage and, of course, in front of and in winter, no one is without heat, electricity and water, without proper food for the winter, without public health? What will you do to provide immediate winter clothes and special bedcloths with the responsibility of state services? What are you going to do to move the islands as a matter of urgency double-tracked refugees and immigrants and stop - we are asking - the plans to create closed detention centres? I say the questions and we give greater weight to them. Of course, we charge you responsibility, Minister, because, despite the timely and continuous interventions by both our party and actors in the labour movement, the need to take immediate measures to protect refugees and migrants from the brutality, despite your assurances that everything is going well, the recent snow has brought to the surface the dramatic conditions of living in the hot spots of Moria Lesvos, Samos, Chios and Malakasa camps and elsewhere. The government is responsible for the fact that thousands of people, including young children, are hiding in tents or even in containers and sheltered spaces that either do not have or do not have heating. The Government, Mr Minister, and all those in favour of the European Union-Turkey agreement, bear the full responsibility for this double caging, which I also told you in my question, of refugees and immigrants on the islands of the North and Eastern Aegean under these terrible conditions. The government is responsible for the fact that the NGOs who are plunging up Community funds and who are doing their best in hot spots and camps decide whether and when winter clothes are given, bed linen offered by our people as a sign of practical solidarity. Finally, it is a challenge, Minister, that I do not know, that you will not accept these allegations - statements by government officials and officials, in fact, that we 'we have made out of the ten thousand of them, and the thousand will remain at the mercy of the cold.' I think this is a provocative statement and there should not be - of course, in practice - because winter is ahead of us. These are the questions I asked you before and we would like, Minister, to see what measures you will take for them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u133	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u134	Mr Kattotis, I would like to tell you this, that sometimes the wrong words lead to the wrong impressions. Let me tell you, then, that we have responded very responsibly to the ending attempt and we have managed to get about fifty-seven thousand people home and under heating and no one on stage. That thing we think we did it. We are very responsible for the rest of us who have been unable to do so. That is why we are not giving up, but continuing to do so. And I hope very quickly that I can tell you that these people have also improved the conditions of life. Now that we're talking, I'm just here from Lesvos and tomorrow we're going to Samos. In general, there is a huge effort. I never said everything was going well. And because I know your seriousness, I would ask you to read me and not for me. I said that in the mainland we did it - and it is true that we did it - that in the mainland we have about fifty, fifty-five thousand people and that in the islands - and I said so, Mr Katabotis - the conditions are very bad and we are trying to improve them. I could explain to you - something that I think you know through your party organisations - that in the islands we have been in front of a reaction in order to improve conditions and create new houses to get in. For example, we needed spaces that were not given to us and other things. And that's not a transfer of responsibility. But, for God’s sake, you realize that no one can take an overall responsibility that does not belong to him. He'll take over the part of the responsibility he owns. So we're trying! I conclude with two things, however, which are secondary. They don't apply to winter clothes. In the last two months we have sent twice a full set to all with sleeping bags, shoes, gloves, winter clothes and waterproof. Honestly, we're making a huge effort. As far as Europe - Turkey is concerned, I would like to say that it is a fundamentally different view. I understand that. Our government considers that this very difficult agreement must be observed. You disagree with this, which is understandable. Obviously within three minutes there cannot be a convincing dialogue for both. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Finally, I want to assure you that what we are trying to do, we do it with a lot of care and a lot of care. We are satisfied with the extinction of this vast majority of people and in relation to other far more advanced countries than us, Mr Katsotis. We, the fifty thousand hosting places, made them within seven months. Germany still has stadiums and here everyone talks about the Greek, while Paris still has people in the squares. Calais was dissolved like this. I want to tell you that there were objective difficulties. So I am pleased with the attempt to resurrect that took place in the hinterland. I am pleased with the effort to achieve the extinction that has taken place, with regard to this vast majority of people. And I'm devastated by the fact that we didn't get these two thousand people to have them in the same way as the others. I think I will soon be able to get out of this crash and tell you that we have succeeded.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u135	Mr Katsotis, you have the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u136	Minister, this issue has been discussed several times recently on the occasion of questions and questions from the other parties as well. And here the government has said a lot about what you will do to best manage the refugee issue, which is, of course, far beyond what we say, such as that the definitive solution is to respect the rights of refugees and go to any country they want, without any restriction. But the European Union has built walls here. The European Union, with your agreement, encloses these sixty-three thousand people here. As they now say, the refugees in Greece have reached sixty-three thousand, perhaps more. And you say today that you have secured accommodation with heating to the fifty-seven thousand. So six thousand people are without heating and without housing. Sixty-three thousand is now! Because those who are in the Greek, Minister, and are on the field, are not with heating. Little children, pregnant women and other people vulnerable are on scenes inside the field - on a baseball field - which is not heated and open. So you understand that they're in cold, they're freezing! You said here, Minister, in your reply, that you are preparing new decent camps in the next quarter. Your commitment was at the beginning of October. Today we have January. Nevertheless, new camps that will be housed in a decent way, with housing and heating, have not been established so that - if you like - this is to satisfy the needs of those who are here today, of refugees and immigrants. There are a number of issues with NGOs. I know that you are on this line and on that logic, that the NGO is a pillar that helps, it is a pillar of importance. And you accept this line of the European Union, that is to say, whether it is financed and not accounted for and, in any case, it must be a state within every camp that exists today. For that, Minister, we see that on our own. It's more than the one responsible for the camp. They go and say 'I forbid you'. You have said that these independent movements made by NGOs you are limiting them. But every time they are going to report you independent moves and limit them? So, how's it going to be? There are many NGOs who act, and an NGO is constantly growing up. And as we have denounced here, Minister, the refugee has been exploited for business, for the profitability of certain eagles, and here it seems that the money that comes does not go to the refugees. I'm not talking about the government. The government is apologizing. He's got the line, the budget, he's making the contests. But the NGOs that give an account, Minister? Bring us the NGO accounts, how much money they've taken and where these have gone. It must be with responsibility that the government faces all this embezzlement of all these eagles, which are now wrinkled, pocketed anyway, that this money must go to refugees. I'm done, Minister. We say that because winter is ahead, measures need to be taken, solutions can be found. And the solutions to the islands where this problem exists are to leave immediately there those who have already been registered for political asylum. For them, Minister, you can do it for those who were recorded yesterday to take them today and come. You can't have them there. Although we do not agree to be there and say that they must be moved immediately, they can also be moved for reasons of such, humanitarian, Minister, so that they do not fall apart.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u137	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u138	Mr Katsotis, let me clarify this. It is a very big mistake that I have the logic that NGOs are a pillar. Believe me, my whole life my logic is that the pillar of service provision and service control is the state. NGOs are a part of this whole thing, and I want you to believe that. My whole life has moved to that level. It is a different thing that we have been resisting, money has been given to institutional and non-governmental organisations. No matter how we scream, our job is to stay here as much money as they can. You're right, we don't have much control capacity. We demand it from the European Union too, but you know that these are legal procedures which your will or your social mood is not enough to solve. Those who are entitled to leave are those who have taken the threefold - that is, you mean - who have been found to be vulnerable and who are entitled to seek asylum in Greece. They're leaving. We have moved within three months about four thousand people from the islands. Over the past twenty-five days we have carried eight hundred from Mytilini, but transport can only be done on the basis of Europe and Turkey's agreement. We're speeding it up. You're right, we're trying. I think the islands can also tell you that. You're wrong with us. In Greek the scenes that exist - which I did not hide, I said - are tents of a polar type with heating. Measurements are that when it has -6 to 1 degree inside it has 16 to 19. And when out there is -2 to 4 degrees, in there is 20 degrees. This does not take away our responsibility to cover the situation on the islands. I hope that next time I will not allow you to ask such a question because of practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u139	Thank you. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-16-S1-commons.u140	With the consent of the House at 20.00 noon, the sitting on Wednesday, January 18, 2017, at 10.00, on the subject of this House's work: a debate on a pre-dated order, in accordance with Rule 143 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, at the initiative of the President of the Group of the Democratic Alliance (PASOK - DIMAR) Mr. Fotinis (Photo) Genuines, at the level of the Heads of Parties, on the primary sector and farmers, in accordance with the special agenda distributed.
