ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, this is my first day as Vice-President of Parliament. I am very grateful to everyone for the cooperation and the officials of the House, and to the ministers and the secretariat and the stenographers. I hope that good cooperation will also be a good parliamentary, democratic work. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers for Infrastructure and Transport, Home Affairs, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economy and Development, Economics, Administrative Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, the Deputy Minister of Finance and the Deputy Minister of Finance, on 14-7-2017, tabled a draft law entitled "New regulatory framework for urban transport in the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki and other provisions". This draft law has been classified by the government as urgent, has been submitted to the committee and is already being discussed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We begin with the fourth with the number 1168/4-7-2017 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the licenses of substitute teachers. Mr. Delis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President, and ironhead in your new duties.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u6	It is a lot of time and time-consuming the problems of this category of teachers, who have been working for too many years in a flexible work regime. I'm talking about surrogates. One of the problems of these teachers is their inequality towards their permanent colleagues in the issue of licences. It is something that we do not understand exactly what logic it is based on. So they do not have the same rights as their permanent colleagues in the permits. To say here two - three examples of the situation in this matter. If any they want to get a normal licence, which, of course, cannot be more than seven days, then they are obliged to pay it at the end of EUR 35 for each day of licence. Like also, if they take sick leave, which will be more than fifteen days, they are at risk of being fired if it is necessary to replace them. There are also differences between the alternates themselves. Those who are paid through the State before, their license is granted by the school director himself without many, namely, bureaucratic procedures, and if they are paid by the NSRF or by the Public Investment Programme, then their permission should be approved by the Education Manager. In any case, what we are asking first is to respect the principle of equality for all teachers in the issue of licences so that there are no such differences. That is what we are asking the relevant Ministry, namely what it will do to overcome this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u7	Thank you very much. The Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr. Gavroglou, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u8	In my turn I wish you success, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u9	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u10	Mr Delis, first of all, I apologise because it is a question that you have asked since February and for some bureaucratic reasons it has not come to my attention. The second is - and I do not know how to express this - that I agree with you. There is a very complex legal regime which does not allow these colleagues to take the licenses they are entitled to and are given by permanent teachers. Like you said, the maximum license is half a month. It is quite obvious that no one should be fired and I think it has not been fired. If she's fired, she's poorly fired if she's been using more days mostly for health reasons. There are additional permits, as you said, of the six days that allow them to go to educational or scientific seminars. We're trying to solve this problem with the Ministry of Labour. We will not be able to similarize it to teachers, again for law reasons, but we will be able to improve it. However, the main problem you are addressing in your speech is the status of assistant teachers. We shall try at all costs, firstly, to ensure that our educational system does not depend largely on substitutes. You know that today about twenty - one thousand teachers in a total of about sixty - five thousand are substitutes. For us it is a very high percentage, a problem that will only be solved through permanent appointments, for which, as you know, we have discussed and launched what we have said and in consultation with the institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u11	Dear Mr. Delis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u12	I think, Minister, that you were clear. Of course, at first you said you agreed. All right, well, it's good for a Minister, a ministry, to agree in a proper position. But the Minister or the Ministry is not judged by his theoretical agreement, but by his actions. It makes no sense, therefore, that you agree with what I said a moment ago, since you yourself said a little while ago that, unfortunately, you will not be able to fully assimilate the system of deputies' licences in relation to the system that applies to the permanent ones, saying that it is quite complicated. I think, Minister, that if you really had the will, then only one provision, an amendment - from what your Government likes to bring here to Parliament - which could say that alternates' permits are equitable, is treated as permanent permits. So the problem would have been solved. In the end, I will say a few words about permanent appointments. But look, this position has a lot of practical implications, Minister, for deputys. I refer particularly to the alternates, the mothers, the mothers, the mothers, the mothers, the maternity leave. While permanent people have nine months of rearing leave - and they do well and have and perhaps they should have more - the licence they are entitled to is only four months old. I don't know if the children of the deputys are children who have different needs. I don't think so! These are some issues, you know, that their solution requires life itself and such provisions, such laws, which your Government maintains and confesss will preserve them, I think they do not help overcome such problems. And I now come to the issue of permanent appointments. Look, at some point, Minister, I think that this trade of hope, which your Government is doing with these people in particular, fellow teachers, will have to stop. We all know - and you have done so with an article here, by order, in the House - that permanent appointments cannot be expected before 2020. That is what you said in a relevant amendment. This situation is really unacceptable, the status of this work, for both teachers and schools and for children. Indeed, I would say that it is particularly criminal for children with special needs who need a stable educational environment. Therefore, the expressions of grief or sympathy to these people on the part of the Ministry or of the Ministers concerned do not convince them at all. What these teachers need now are themselves, all those who have worked in recent years - I do not know exactly how many are, twenty-three, twenty-five thousand - to now claim with their organization, their permanent appointment, because they need education before all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes to develop your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u14	Let's start at the end. As to how they will claim and what the assistant teachers will do, it is obviously something that depends on their own jurisdiction and is the result of their own procedures. Only you must be very straightforward about what you think this system should be, which is fair to the whole world that has its pre-service, and at the same time, young people are not left out of the opportunity to become teachers. Isn't that right? So it's a complex social problem. The main thing, of course, is to have the appointment posts, which I think we did not say that they would not exist before 2020, or at least there has never been any such statement from the Ministry of Education. And now I'm coming to the rest. Look, as I told you, the political problem and the government understand that. But when a person has a nine-month contract, that is, as long as the academic year is, you understand that by definition he cannot have the same potential as permanent teachers. That is why this institution should be an institution that should be weakened, because the institution itself creates inequality. Because, as you know, neither the same persons are appointed or recruited the following year nor in the same place they are recruited, etc. So the institution of substitutes should be an institution used by the state for absolutely essential needs and not as has happened, unfortunately, in recent years or substantial needs have been discovered on a more permanent basis. Now, as far as the issue you have raised, that of special education is concerned, I think you are a little unfair. It's the only government he's appointed so many. It's taken steps, which haven't been taken for decades. This year, for the first time, we are setting up a special school in vocational schools. It is therefore a government which, as well as the number of recruitments, has increased or included the number of schools, as well as a normalization of special education in our schools. Now there is indeed one issue with the deputies, since many times the same person does not go to the same school next year. But that - you know - the problem is again inherent with regard to alternates, because of the tables and criteria with which they are appointed. So let us keep the core of your reflection, with which, as I say, we agree politically, and try to bring those changes to the Staff Code, which will not bring any other kind of problems to other categories of workers. That is the difficulty. So we are not talking about a simple amendment that could be tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u15	Thank you very much to the Minister for his answer. We move on to the next questions. Mr Pavlos Pavlakis has his honours, with five questions. As far as I can see, the issues outside the Athens City Centre are also interesting for the region. We'll be happy to hear him. We will begin with the first with number 1187/11-7-2017, a timely question from the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ilia Kamaterou to the Minister of Health, on "Direct need to strengthen Kos Hospital". My colleague, Ilias Cameroon, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u16	Good power to me too, Mr President. Minister, you know the problems on the islands very well, since we work with the island parliamentarians and we try to provide solutions on a daily basis. Your ministry is one of what they've done enough for the islands. I don't have to say it all because I should have time. For example, they are the special motives for doctors, the incentives the municipalities may give, the molecules they receive above, 400 euros as an incentive for doctors, along with the district that gives them another 350 euros. There are too many things we have done, but it is not enough, Minister. For these more general reasons, I will be given the opportunity to tell you more and to make a proposal in my dentistry. I now confine myself to the question concerning the Hospital of Kos and, more generally, the health problem on the island of Kos, because a large gap has been created at the moment. After the Red Cross left the Centre for First Reception of Immigrants, organisations left, NGOs ended the contracts for CEDEFOP, the contracts for the CEDEFOP ended, and there is a large gap until all this is done, until new notices and recruitments are made. And if we consider that on the island of Kos this year we are waiting for more than a million two thousand visitors to the airport - we have the individual ones, we have the days from the opposite, but also from the surrounding islands - if we consider that we have the First Reception Centre, which increases the needs we have, then we understand that the problem is very great, especially in the tourism sector, as has been developed on the island, which is sensitive, volatile and we must pay great attention to it. So I would like you to tell us how you intend to deal with this gap and, of course, how we solve the problem on the islands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u17	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u18	Thank you for the question, Mr Colleague, because it is time to say a few things, which were not data two years ago and a year and a half ago, and which is now to a large extent. As I have said many times, we have been doing a huge attempt to balance the system for a year and a half. The first thing that the system wanted to balance, with the suffocating limits set by the memorials and the logic of dismantling the public and pushing people to private and the economic suffocation we received in October 2015 that we started running, was that we had to fund the structures and now I'm talking specifically now. When we received and started to rule in October 2015, the budget allocated for the Kos Hospital to get from the General Accounting Office of the State was EUR 1,395,000 for 2015. What he got at the end was 1,931,943 euros. This is for 2015. In 2016, a serious increase in the already increased amount of the previous year was made to EUR 2.487,000 and this year's budget is to get from the General Accounting Office of the State is EUR 3,679,000. That's all you're saying. The first thing, then, is that. Also, the hospital has been funded with EUR 2,701,260 for arrears of earlier years, of which it has unfortunately absorbed 1,277, 539 euros and is pending in its funds in 1,423,000 euros, to enact it and give it. There are delays, we know, there are also various Commissioners who create some problems right and left, but that is the economic reality. Secondly, after many years of permanent positions of doctors in the hospital, which are the following: One surgical post, one cardiology position, two curator's second pediatric post, one nephrology position, one pathology position, one curator's anaesthetic position. All of these are curators II. Those approvals have been granted since 2016. Some, such as surgery, cardiology and nephrology have been completed and are in the appointment phase. The position of the pediatrician has come out uncivilized and we have again approved it to the extent of director in order to create an incentive for someone to come. In addition, two permanent staff crew seats were set for the EAW last year in the EAW. From that point on, because we know the problem that exists, we had strengthened for a long time through CEDEFOP and the EMCDDA and, in general, this programme that was then completed, which ended and managed to replace it, because the non-governmental organisations who left, I would say, suddenly and created the void that they created - to extend the Philos programme, which concerns mainland Greece, again and on the islands of the Eastern Aegean. This plan provides, for contracts up to 19-1-2018 - and we will also see for extension after this programme - that is, from now until the end of the first phase of the programme to be extended, a hundred three posts serving in the hospitals of Lesbos, Chios, Samos, Leros, Kos, for EKAV rescuers for for forty places and in the reception and identification centres for migrants another two hundred sixty-one places. The notice is out and it expires on 25-7-2017. It came out on 10-7-2017 and ends on 25-7-2017. Instructions have been given to CEDEFOP to run the program as quickly as possible, because most likely, after 19-1-2018, the program will be extended, so we will also have the continuation of those who will be recruited now. In particular, for the Hospital of Kos, there are seven positions of doctors, twelve posts of other staff and seven rescuers - crews of ambulances in this notice. There are six doctors, general medical, pathology, pediatric, psychiatric, eight nurses, six psychologists, eight social workers and eight intercultural mediators. That's the programming that's there. Applications are being made, as far as I know, there's a lot of demand in the program. You know the procedures that exist in the Greek State, but we believe that we will soon be able to cover all these positions, in so far as there is interest, which - from what I am hearing - exists for the majority of positions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u19	Minister, can you tell the rest in your dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u20	I'm not gonna say any more after that. The hospital and the healthcare region have requested approval - apart from permanent posts - and other subsidiary doctors in need. There's a budget for the hospital to cover them, based on the evidence I've said before. After the appointments that will be made, we will also be proclaiming subsidiary positions as well. For example, in cardiologists and nephrologists you have a unique specialty and are likely to be taken by the paramedics who are now serving. So, by recruiting them as permanent, if they do not take the place of someone else with more qualifications, etc., we will also be proclaiming the positions of the subsidiary, who is able to cover the hospital's budget. So I think that, in the broader context that exists, these are a serious effort to support, which I do not believe has been another one for Kos Hospital in recent years. In fact, Mr President, unfortunately or happily - I think, fortunately - the population is multiplying throughout the islands. This is happening everywhere. In fact, you receive a situation in which you have been underrepresented for years, because the reality is this: in Athens there is no medical staff and in the province there are no doctors missing. That's the point. When you didn't have an incentive, or when you were "collapsing" wages, or when you didn't call a post, or when you called a post on loss and fallout, it's obvious they weren't. Because it's another thing to publish seven places together, which means that a team of doctors will go, so the hospital will work differently, and another one will call a seat, which tells you "what am I going to do alone?" so no one puts it. That was the logic. Here in pediatrics there is a particular problem. We've been proclaiming two positions. Unfortunately, it did not show any interest. There is a problem with the EEA contracts by the pediatricians there. We're calling them back in director's seats. I think that as far as possible, in relation to what we are doing throughout the rest of Greece, we have looked at your island as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much the Minister. I think he's covered all the time of dentology. Dear Mr Kamaterre, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, please do not deprive me of the opportunity to give me a positive answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u23	I don't deprive myself of my first day anything. The second will begin with deprivations and aids.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u24	Good. To keep my time off, I'm on my way. Minister, I am pleased that my question gave me the opportunity to clarify several things and much more what we have received. Of course, you and our government only abandonment cannot be said to exist more generally on the islands and especially on the island of Kos, which we are discussing now. It is very positive what you have said and the programming and the notices and everything, but my assessment is that they can be implemented after the summer and now in the summer we have a great deal of trouble. That's why I wanted you to tell us, if there's any secondments at the first reception center, and also a few postings at the hospital for the summer months, until all these announcements that you've said are successful. I think that, if there is an evaluation, we can do some distractions, even the fewer we can in the summer, because the gap, Minister, is too great. I would add - and I would ask you to confirm this - that serious aid to the island, which is a cut-off, will be the creation of the primary health units of the TOMY. There's something like that about the island of Kos, than you've told us. The Ministry provides three such units and will really be a jump in the service of the needs of the island. I wanted to conclude with a more general proposal that I have told you before that I have to do to you, even though we have discussed this. Minister, with the system that exists so far in health for the islands, we will always make a much better management, we will cover some gaps, but we need areas. In the process that you are about to review the whole system, the whole structure, all services, we need to see what will happen with the islands. We have to predict something else. It is not possible for the IPA, which are the islands of the southern Aegean, for example, to be hospitals in Attica. It is not possible for health centers to belong to the Ministry of Health, to be the Hospital of Kos in Rhodes and Kalymnos in Rhodes, Leros Autonomous, Agricultural Medicines in the ICM and all this. We should see the specificities of the islands. This whole system must be changed and in relation to the classification of the islands which we are studying at the Ministry of Island Policy, because it is absolutely essential to categorise the islands in what is coastal. For example, we will have another way of dealing with the centres - nodes, another way of dealing with the islands - satellites and another way of dealing with the remote islands. One example, therefore, in the health system, based on this separation and categorisation, could be this: If we strengthen hospitals in the islands - knots and give the responsibilities of the whole region's health system to these units, then they will be able to obtain distractions - and short-lived - cover the needs of the small islands, which we cannot meet now. You know very well that it will be difficult for a doctor to go to an island of a few residents. It's like stopping his career, stopping his experience because of the island's isolation. But when a central serious hospital takes over, which can do short-lives - one month, two months - the needs will be covered and there will be interest by doctors. This could be applied immediately, even with the existing regulations in some hospitals, in specialities that we cannot cover. I'll say, for example, to finish with that, the pediatrician you're telling Kos. It is impossible on such an island, with all the needs we have said before, to have 12 or 13 years without a pediatrician. Let's strengthen the pediatricians in Rhodes, where we can. If I'm not mistaken, right now, it's three and they can't meet Kos' needs. There may be pediatricians going, because in Kos it looks like they're not getting to come for the moment, and that's where you're distracting me from circular, recycled, to meet these needs. I mean, we need to see the incision...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u25	My dear colleague, we have escaped this question a lot in time. We've reached twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u26	I'm done, Mr. President. I want to say that we need to see what we are going to plan, because, if we do not cut it, the situation will not change dramatically. Until then, we have to look at some smart solutions at the transitional stage, cover the gaps without much cost and without many more intakes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, too. Minister, would you like to fill in something?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u28	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u29	The Member of the New Republic, Mr Ioannis Plakatakis, shall request permission from a short-day absence abroad for personal reasons from 17 July to 22 July 2017. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u30	The House therefore approved the requested permission. The fourth question will then be discussed under number 1176/4-7-2017, the first question of the Greek Parliamentary I of the Union of Central Banks Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of Health, concerning the recording and treatment of deficits by EKAB Halkidiki in ambulances and rescuers. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. I wish you success in your new duties.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u32	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u33	Mr Minister, I am very well aware of the situation you have inherited. I also know that you are not responsible for this situation. But you have been in the same ministry for two and a half years and have been managing the fates of this ministry for two and a half years. So I would ask you, saying that I do not want an answer that will be blessed, nor do I want an answer that will cast all the mistakes on those who are responsible for this situation, which you inherited. I would like you to give me an answer on how you understand the next day's planning. Minister, we are already in mid-July and the tourist season is at its peak. The coverage needs of the Halkidiki area in ambulances and rescuers are increased daily, as is the pressure on the workers of the EAW. In view of two tragic incidents, which took place in the Uranoupolis region and in the region of Nea Skioni, you ask, Mr Minister: how many ambulances and how many rescuers should be at the disposal of the EKAB Halkidikis and what are the gaps in logistics infrastructure and personnel identified by you in Halkidiki? What's the planning of the Ministry, Minister? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u34	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr Colleague for the question. At the moment, the situation in the region of Halkidiki is nine vehicles received in 2014, three vehicles received in 2009 and two vehicles received since 2004 and used as reserve vehicles. At the moment, twenty - seven persons, rescuers and ambulance crews are serving. A further six transfers have been made, which will take place within the next few days, after the completion of the proceedings by the EKA Board of Directors. These transfers have been decided on objective criteria and are to go there, not to get out of there. Fourteen movements have also been made for the first period and twelve movements of staff have been made for the second period, asking for their permission to be passed and to work in some tourist area by staff serving in the EKA and paying offshores and having these privileges. In addition, the recruitment of two new permanent staff from the ninety-three of the competition from the AACC, which has finished and the final results have been obtained and have already begun to be invited. The shifts covered by the area are with five to six ambulances on the morning shift, four to five ambulances on the afternoon shift and three ambulances on the night shift. We believe that this is a relatively sufficient coverage. The foundations are in Moudania, Kassandra, Polygyros, Agios Nikolaos, Ierissos and Palaiochori. Be careful now, in recent years the EKPB in Halkidiki has been the orgy of customer transfers. Ten people left there, from such a neural sector, which in summer has the tourist movement of others. We received ten people reduced from 2014 in Halkidiki. There's these things I'm telling you about. The most serious thing, however, was what happened last weekend. Because in the dramatic incident that always and everywhere can happen for a number of reasons, we give full publicity. What publicity has he received from the fact that last weekend the fire chopper, which on Friday - weekends and last year and this year he attempts in Halkidiki, saved three more people? Did you see that anywhere? It has saved many people this helicopter, precisely because of the specific transport problem where the road is narrow and far away from the distance to come to Thessaloniki. Is that a small thing? Because it hasn't happened for so many years. We did so, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, and last year and this year and we will try to expand some more days. It certainly attempts Fridays - weekends, with a pilot from the Firefighting and crew from the EKA and has saved people. How many times did you see that writing local media? That's what we've done for Halkidiki. They are programmed under the Fleet Change Programs and by NIS notices, as well as by the donations of Niarchus and the TAP pipeline, to replace a very large part of the fleet throughout Greece. The ambulances from Niarch are a hundred forty-five, about a hundred-five are the ambulances we get in collaboration with various regions and another thirty are from the TAP pipeline. I am not counting here ambulances, which are bought either from the NRP or from own resources in various health centres, such as those that had been taken here in 2014 and which were in health centres, but which did not use them there, were new. Again, this government took them from health centers and uses them by the EAW.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u36	Thank you very much the Minister. Dear Mr. Saridis, you have your denture for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, let me begin that communication policy is a matter of government. You're gonna have to advertise this and not look for us to find it. So it's not about us. Secondly, Mr Minister, you said that we currently have 12 vehicles in Halkidiki which are in operation, apart from the two that operate on a back-up basis. You said we had 12 and two backups. You said that for these vehicles we have twenty-seven people plus six others, i.e. thirty-three people for 12 vehicles. You will answer your dentistry if I have misunderstood what you have said. These people...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u38	Drivers exist in health centers and come out together.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u39	Yes, however, I know from a communication that I had with the President of the EKAV Halkidiki's employees, that for every ambulance on a daily shift eleven people are needed. So, for the twelve ambulances you say they're on a 24-hour basis...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u40	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u41	Six ambulances on a 24-hour basis?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u42	Six ambulances in the morning, four in the afternoon and three in the evening.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u43	That's all they need for every ambulance of 11 rescuers. Are there?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u44	I've answered your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u45	Minister, you will answer your dentistry. Mr. Saridis, please close your question for the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u46	You can answer your dentistry. And I would remind you that this same question, not for Halkidiki, but for the ambulances in general, was discussed by you and you a year ago, in conjunction with the closure of the tender for the other ambulances, which were in the region of Central Macedonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u47	Minister, if you wish to answer Mr Saridis' questions, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u48	I'll answer that soon. I repeat, Mr Saridis: twenty-seven are the permanent, six are the transfers, fourteen and twelve are for the first part of the tourist season. The second is the movement of staff from other regions there to strengthen the tourist season with the agreement of the officials. They don't need the winter six, they have much less movement. Summer needs six on the morning shift. Secondly, there are guides to health centres, who are taking part in shifts and are going on a joint project between the EKAB sector and the health centres, as is happening throughout Greece. And that's why we need synergies, we want no waste of resources, no human or material. For the ambulances in central Macedonia, the competition will be reopened. The procedure for the technical specifications has been completed, as is the case for Attica and Western Macedonia and for central Macedonia and for the other regions, where the previous tender has not been completed. It will be implemented now. And I will reply more in general and much more in detail on this subject to the next question by Mr Foyla.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u49	Thank you very much the Minister. The sixth question will be discussed under number 1116/30-6-2017, a topical question by MEP I of the Thessaloniki Union of Centres Mr.Ioannis Saridis, Minister for Health, on the subsistence of the General Hospital of Papageorgiou, Thessaloniki. Mr. Saridis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u50	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, a year ago, in September 2016, a timely question had been asked and I had considered the most serious subsidization of the General Hospital of Papageorgiou Thessaloniki, highlighting the shortcomings of both medical staff, who had sixty-two empty organic posts, as well as of nursery, paramedical and other staff, who had two hundred and eighty-four empty posts. The consequence of this was the limited functioning of both surgery and clinical and of beds in the hospital intensive care unit. After the debate on that topical question, Minister, on 29 September, as is apparent from the Minutes, you mentioned the recruitment of eighteen subsidiary and six permanent doctors, while you also attributed the inability of full staff to the policy of older governments. Today comes the nursing and medical staff of the Hospital of "Papageorgiou" and clearly states the shortcomings that exist, making a press release, as well as inviting Thessaloniki's media to inform about these shortcomings. The situation remains very bad in empty organic positions and we have many inactive beds in the hospital intensive care unit. In view of the above, Minister, I ask you what is the planning to quickly fill out the gaps of the “Papageorgiou” General Hospital, so that the citizens of Thessaloniki and Macedonia enjoy the quality of their health, since this hospital covers 50% of the area of Thessaloniki to citizens attending hospitals for health reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u51	Thank you. The Minister has the floor for three minutes for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u52	Because a lot of ink has been spilled about Papageorgiou Hospital, I, as you always know, always speak with data. And I remember last year, at the end of 2015, at the beginning of 2016, there was a great deal of pressure on the fact that the hospital is not funded, that it has stayed in the air and so on. Because I looked for some things, I saw that in 2013 the Papageorgiou Hospital was funded by the state budget with 30m euros, in 2014 to 35m euros, in 2015 to 37m euros, in 2016 to 37,5m euros. And that is being implemented so far, which has already taken EUR 18,824 million. Also, in 2016, it was funded with 67,895,000 euros from the due date program and practically paid off all its suppliers. Also, I see the following, that while 2012 had only taken from EEAY 8 million euros, in 2013 it had taken 30 million, in 2015 it took 32 million and in 2016 it took 67 million euros. I think that is what the Papageorgiou Hospital has balanced. And when these were given, I didn't see any of them - and from the administration - who were shouting about sub-financing coming out and saying that the hospital has balanced and refined because the government has financed this way. Secondly, eight positions of curator were announced at various stages of the crisis, namely: a position of curator of Second Cardiology, a Second Pathology, two Second Anesthesiology, a Second Cytology, a Second Pneumonology and a Second Surgery. Twenty-nine auxiliary doctors have been appointed at the Papageorgiou Hospital, Mr. Not eighteen, but twenty-nine. I am also announcing - and the administration and colleagues from the club know - that the approval by the Ministry of Finance for the adoption of an act of ministerial council for the recruitment of a hundred permanent staff at the Papageorgiou Hospital, which, if not already signed, is completed by the Minister of Administrative Reconstruction, is also given as an extra call for the Papageorgiou Hospital. The hospital was not provided for in the previous notices because we had much more intense gaps elsewhere. We know very well the work produced by the "Papagorium" Hospital and we have planned to support these hundreds of people, of whom the forty are eight nurses, two RU nurses, eight radioologists - radiologists, two OC medical machine operators, twenty DUs, two CUs, two secretarial assistants, two DUs, six DUs administrative-accounting and ten YUs of health assistants. This has gone through the most difficult stage, which was the approval by the Ministry of Finance to meet needs. There is agreement from the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction and if it has not been signed, it is signed these days in order to be given a notice to the hospital. It wasn't the first phase of appointments, because, as I told you, we had sharp gaps to cover elsewhere. And now that we have balanced things, we can also strengthen the Papageorgiou Hospital. I think this is the best proof that we take very seriously and know the work that the hospital produces, and that is why we support it in this way, which we support, and all the things I have said before.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u53	Thank you very much to the Minister for his reply. Mr. Saridis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u54	I won't plunder because I'm not a populist, it's not my character. I won't do that. I was covered by the Minister's answer. I remain assured that the hospital will be sent with a new notice relatively soon, as you said, with a hundred people who have them and a great need, in order to support, you know, and the work of those who are already working, since you know much better than me that the national health system is hanging in a thread, and that thread is enduring because, in fact, the people who manage the national health system, the nurses and the doctors are there every day. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u55	Be well. If I may make a small comment, it is very important and documented the Minister's answer. It's a huge problem in Thessaloniki. For the Papageorgiou Hospital, I think that the documentation was complete, it is sufficient for the members of the county to check how soon we will be implemented, on the other hand, as a government to implement it. We're moving on to the next...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u56	Let me just say a word.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u57	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u58	There was a serious negotiation with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction in order to be able to issue, because we have announced many thousands of positions these two years throughout Greece. The Papageorgiou Hospital was not included in the first plans. He's joining us now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u59	Right. We continue with our second question with No 1209/11-7-2017, on the subject of "Pragmatic deficits on the islands of our country". In addition to the previous question, we must also have a full response from the Minister to have a picture, because it is summer months and it is important to know what is going on. Mr. Fotella, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I would first like to express my warmest condolences and my deep grief to the people concerned and to the family who Anti-Fraud Aristides Mousakitis who was injured in duty and who lost his life. I have decided to ask this topical question in the context of parliamentary scrutiny, because we all understand - and you - that the presence on our islands of EKAB, fully equipped, is urgent and that is why, due to tourism on our islands, the population of the islands is multiplying. The evidence I have in mind, Minister, by institutions of the islands and of the EAEC, is unfortunately not satisfactory. The institutions themselves - you know that they do not belong to a particular party - point out that there are significant deficiencies in ambulances and rescuers in most islands in our country, during the tourist season. In particular, in the islands of Sporades - Skiathos, Skopelos, Alonissos - there is no ambulance at all, as well as a large number of Cyclades and Ionian Islands. However, even in what is available as an ambulance, the number of survivors is not enough to cover the necessary shifts. For example, in Rhodes, an island of which the population in the summer months reaches the hundreds of thousands, there is a serious problem of being suppressed and weakened by staff and ambulances. There are similar problems on the Ionian islands. The most dramatic result of the deficiencies occurred on the island of Santorini, with the tragic death of one of our fellow citizens, because there was only one ambulance, since the other, which has arrived from Naxos, does not work because of the lack of a satisfactory number of rescuers. Even with agricultural vehicles, as we read again in Zakynthos these days and are being recruited for drivers, police officers, and even mayors. I would like to stress here that, despite the shortcomings, the staff of the EMCDDA are making titanic efforts, overcoming the limits of human endurance, while at the same time being due to thousands of hours of work. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. I was informed that the South Aegean Region, in cooperation with the President of EKAB, has, in the last few days, responded partly to the requirements of the island of Rhodes. He announced the intake through ASAP in the next period - unknown when in particular - some rescuers - I only wonder why this notice did not provide any more, since the needs of the islands are so great - and the supply of additional ambulances for the Aegean islands. Despite positive announcements, however, the problems remain on Aegean islands, Ionian islands and the Sporades. In addition, there are complaints that the Ministry will transfer seventy rescuers. I am wrongly writing "thousands" in my question. Thirty are mandatory, it's a court order. They are seventy, then, rescuers, without precise justification for this number and they move to positions which several of them do not seem to be imposed by the reality of needs, since the needs are everywhere. No service, after all, has a great deal of rescuers. At the same time, just a few days ago, the date was given for the renewal of the contracts of about fifty rescuers on the islands that had expired since November 2016. The deficiencies I mentioned in the EKA, along with the sanitary uniting of the islands, lead the vast majority, if not all patients with emergency health problems, to seek aerospace or crossing the coastline at the large hospitals.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u61	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u62	I'm done. You are planning, as I have seen you announced, to organize a system of waterways, by supplying waterways and bases to Naxos, Leros and Rhodes. That is a good thing. But as far as I understand it, this is scheduled to work next summer. So since, in any case, the need to fill gaps in rescuers and ambulances is immediate, I would like you to answer: First, what is this timetable in order to strengthen the EKRD immediately on our islands with ambulances and rescuers so as to meet the increased and pressing needs that exist? Secondly, what direct actions will you take to ensure that any transfers and transfers of personnel cover the urgent gaps on our islands, given that the tourist season has already begun? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u63	Thank you very much. Minister, you have three minutes for your prototype to give your answer to Mr. Fotilla.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u64	Mr Fotella, thank you for asking me the question, because it gives me the opportunity again to clarify a few things. You're new to space and you're confusing them a little - based on the information they give you it has to do, that is - why a mistake, obviously, is that there is no ambulance in Alonissos, Skopelos and Skiathos. There are ambulances who are in health centres, there is simply no sector in the EAW. Now it's going to be fixed. Let me get them a little bit, because the numbers are the best thing to answer. Firstly, we have implemented, as you know very well, the market for ninety ambulances, from which some new vehicles were given to the southern Aegean as well as to the northern Aegean. We have reintroduced a number of ambulances from an EAW programme, and I will say them in particular. The program has been integrated, it has been approved feasibility. The invitation's coming out to be auctioned. It is a budget of 829,000 euros and concerns: Thera with a small-scale vehicle, Kalymnos with a small-volume vehicle, Karpathos with a small-volume vehicle, Leros with a small-volume vehicle - "small-volume" is called the ambulances that are smaller in order to be able to enter the narrow roads of the islands - Mykonos with a small-volume vehicle, Naxos with an ambulance 4x4, Paros with a small-volume vehicle, Rhodes with an ambulance 4x4 and an ambulance small-volume vehicle, Syros with a mobile unit and a small-volume vehicle, Tinos with a small-volume vehicle. These vehicles are the distribution between the contract to be signed by the EAW with the South Aegean Region. Also, under a contract already approved and totalling about EUR 1.5 million, it is planned that health infrastructures, health centres, multi-powered doctors, or regional doctors, which exist there, namely the islands: Nissyros, Anafis, Astypalaea, Serifos, Halkis and Kasos, will be equipped again with vehicles of small volume. They are six small-volume vehicles, which will be incorporated there and operated with the drivers who have health centres or multi-powered regional hospitals. The approval of feasibility has also been completed and the notice is expected to be issued. They are all finished with the technical specifications from the Region of Thessaly for thirteen vehicles, which ten are conventional ambulances, there is an ambulance 4x4 and two mobile medical units, which can also be given to the islands, Skiathos, Skopelos and Alonissos. You also know very well that there are two very large donations under way, as I said before. There is the donation of Niarchus with the hundreds of forty ambulances throughout the country, which has become a total distribution of Greece and which the islands have to receive in it. There is also the donation from the TAP pipeline. Of course, there are also other notices for central Macedonia, western Macedonia and the Attica region, especially in the Attica region, which is a very large number, it is about fifty two vehicles, of all, mobile units and conventional ambulances. In total, there is a very large renewal of the EBRD fleet. Now let's go to the staff. Last year, in 2016, the eighty - seven rescuers were hired, who were allocated throughout Greece. This year, with a procedure - and it is the second mistake you made before - we did this for the first time, Mr President. We didn't make a client move. We made an open invitation and said: 'We need people in these areas. Is anyone interested in the staff of the EMCDDA, who is serving today, to go there'? There was such a call of interest, and that resulted in them passing through the service board with a specific moleculation of these people that we needed in the provincial areas. We have seen where they will move from the centre and that is where we have announced the new positions. What did that save us? What happened before? Or did you have a "Barba in Koroni" to make a client move or if you didn't have a "Barba in Koroni", a man who was serving what he was doing? When a proclamation came out, one who served was making his papers to go to that post. So, practically, she was getting out of here and go over there. As a result, while in Athens we had planned to declare thirty positions in this 100-position notice, we proclaimed fifty-six seats, for the other twenty-six left Athens and covered positions in islands, which we did not declare after. So the ninety-three recruitments that came out and the final table, the sixteen seats are on the islands and hired, the final table was also given and the administration of the EAW has begun to call. Specifically, there are: five in Thera, two in Kos, four in Mykonos, two in Paros, two in Naxos, one in Tinos. These are since the ninety-three announcement that came out and the final table and the administration is beginning to call. We also unblocked after many years forty-six special-class posts. Through OAED we have been told who they are entitled to. You know, they're the multitude, unemployed, third-party, etc. One in Ikaria, one in Lemnos, one in Mytilini, one in Rhodes, one in Samos, one in Chios. It's the special categories.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u65	Minister, can you continue in your dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u66	Shall I say it all together?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u67	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u68	It is also what I said earlier that we are not reopening. Mr. Comrade, this is the third mistake you made before. We do not re-approve those who had done the eight to nine months with the CEDEFOP programme for aiding the refugee crisis. We are essentially extending the "PHILOS" programme concerning the continental regions and the Aegean islands, reception and identification centres for the support of the EAW and the strengthening of the health structures that are a total of over four hundred people. Forty are for the EKA, scattered on these islands and there is a post-medical and medical staff for the hospitals. I answered these before the timely question by Mr Kamateros. There is also medical and nursing staff, intercultural mediators, etc., which are for the reception and identification units of refugees. All this is reinforcement. I would also like to say a little more specifically, because there are some things that do not apply. I want to tell you about each island separately. In 2010...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u69	Minister, because you have exceeded time, will Mr. Fotillas answer and give you a minute later?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u70	I'll talk to you later. You're right. These are the first general elements that I have, and I will tell you later in my dentext, concrete elements that exist per island, because in all what I have said, another thirty-five people have to be added, which we have received through OAED with the twelve-month programme for the unemployed. There are another thirty-five seats. We had been proclaiming seventy, but the thirty-five were covered. It's for 12 months. They're doing business.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u71	No rescuers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u72	No, they're ambulance drivers. The C.E.D.A. is taking rescuers. Ambulance drivers take the health centers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u73	The OAED calls rescuers?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u74	If they deposit their papers, they might get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u75	Let's move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u76	I'll answer for every island separately.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u77	Minister, thank you. Mr. Fotella, you have the floor for three minutes. Then the Minister will give us the rest of the documentation, briefly, in one minute, so that we can get through to the other topical questions. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u78	First of all, to protect the rescuers a little, I'll say the rescuers are rescuers. They're not drivers, they're not injured, they're not maids, they're not cleaners. They're rescuers. So this unemployed person, hired by the OAED for a few months, I don't understand how he's a rescuer. I do not think that this is about rescuers, but it does not mean that they cannot help other secondary services. With regard to the 90 ambulances tender, it is a competition in the New Democracy. As far as the Niarchus donation is concerned, I shall say that it is a matter that is a three-year-old subject. I have listened very well, Minister. What you have said to me is very good, but, above all, they are drafts on paper. It's things we'll find before us, but the summer is here, the tourists are here and the dangers are here right now. If, at the moment we're talking about, there's some bad episodes, I don't know how we can handle it if there's any need. I have no specific timetable for what you have told me. You told me that they were going to be. You didn't tell me specifically when. The only thing for sure is that it won't happen this summer. Because I have heard this from the previous Member, I would like to emphasise something. You said that in Halkidiki, in fact, there are twenty-seven rescuers and fourteen ambulances. Fourteen ambulances need about fifty rescuers to be able to work. So he asked you how they are going and you said that they are moving. They don't move with a miracle, visually, how you said it. Let me tell you: The only way to move fourteen ambulances with twenty-seven rescuers is just the same rescuers every three hours to change ambulances so they don't get hurt! To operate all with staff covering them is not done de facto. You told me everything was fine. But you didn't tell me about the transfers. What I would like to ask is this: if everything was done well with the transfers, why did you then have to change the chairman of the Staff Board, who disagreed with these transfers, obviously not serving real purposes? Why did you have to change it and put someone else who would agree to these transfers? I also ask, because I do not understand why there are acceptable transfers in Yannina and Thessaly, when the needs for rescuers are everywhere, obviously from where you transfer them. I would understand whether there were acceptable transfers to islands that need to be huge. Of course that's where you'll tell me there's no applications to go to the islands. Finally, you obviously wanted to say about the Sporades that there were never EKAB areas. Indeed, there is no EAEC area, but if necessary and you are judging, you are two and a half years, Minister, in this government. Create an EKT domain if you judge what is needed. When you reply to me - not only you, anyone from the government - with a political argument from the previous ones, that is, what the previous ones have done, you simply confirm to me that you have not done everything you should. I tell you you're two and a half years of government. Go, go, go, go, go, go! Don't talk to me like you're still opposition. Don't get ahead of yourself. You'll be coming to the Antipopulation site soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u79	Thank you very much to Mr Fofila and to his sense of humor. The Minister has the floor to answer. Wait a minute, Minister, with little tolerance to give the evidence, so we can close it down.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u80	Mr Fotella, unfortunately with the groups you are holding, you must all end your words by going back to the opposition soon. "Where's the old lady in her wrath, she lusts them in her dream," to start with. Secondly, you probably didn't understand what I told you about the transfers. Yes, obviously, and we changed a president of the service. They had learned to work as follows: “Is he my friend? It's my congressman's? I'm moving him. Isn't it? I do not move him.’ That's what we broke.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u81	I'm sorry, you're right. Let me tell you a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u82	Mr. Fotella, I have not interrupted you. Not half.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u83	From Halkidiki...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u84	For the first time in time, EKAV issued a public invitation and said: "I have needs there. Who wants the servants to go? So this thing has been scored and gone. Where we had applications, the one who had most molecules went. Let anyone go out and say a word, if we did not have any graceful treatment. These positions we were planning to publish, we did not publish them there, but where those who took off the position left, and so we will have a profit, because otherwise we would have lost. It would be taken by someone who was already serving, who would go there, who would improve the provision of services to one part, and who would be lost from the other. That's for the first time. What can we do? I've been saying what we've been doing all this time. I'm not saying what we're gonna do. I said more that we did, but I never said it again. You've got this as if you can't. The base of the aerospace facilities in Syros you've seen it, I guess. Isn't that right? It was a 40-year-old request, and it happened. She's over two hundred aerospace apartments over there. It's improved very much. It is true that the programme will go ahead with the waterways, at the pace of the European programmes. We ended up, we found the specifications, we said it'd be three, they'd get into these locations, and we joined personal for this thing. Such programmes also existed in previous years, but then no such programme came out. Why didn't he go out? Because we were "we had good relations" with those who made the courses on the islands and who cost EKAV 1.5 and 2 million euros a year. It was Sicily - Naxos with 15,000 euros, as if he were on a cruise ship. That is why you have not announced them in previous years. I want to speak specifically about the islands now. In Santorini, for example, the EBRD sector had eight rescuers in 2010. In 2014, two were left. Who left them two there? Did a client state that took them to where they would take votes?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u85	2009-2010 was.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u86	In 2010, it had eight and in 2014 in the beginning of 2015, we received two. They are currently serving six, serving some at the hospital via AEMY. It's the ambulance's shift. The ambulance shift comes from eight to eleven. Secondly, another five rescuers are now recruited since the ninety-three. I told you before, but you did how you didn't hear it. The final results have been obtained and they are starting to be summoned. Now it's going to happen, not next year.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u87	Minister, do you have any other evidence to submit to Mr. Fotilla? To earn some time, because we still have four questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u88	I can testify everything for Paros, and for what happened in Mykonos. He had eight, they were kicked out of Mykonos, and that's where you cut off and six left. Now it's seven and there's two more. In Paros they had two to six rescuers. There are at the moment nine others going two of this proclamation - I am talking about the trafficd tourist islands - who, in fact, will strengthen the coverage of all these regions. I did not say 'time' on the subject of ambulances. Niarchos' donation will be completed by 31-12-2017 this year. This has been announced. Didn't you hear that? Didn't you see it? The donation of the ETF will also be very fast, because it is the same technical specifications that we have produced for the donation of the Niarchus, as well as for the work of the Attica region with the fifty-one ambulances and for the work of western and central Macedonia, with the fifteen and twenty ambulances. The standards, as I have said before, are common now and we have no confusion, as we had in the past. Because these ninety - to say another word, because you probably do not remember them well - you published them in 2007. Do you understand that? In 2007!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u89	Minister, we got away a little bit.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u90	Just a word. I'm done. They were declared again in 2011-2012 and we were barely ahead of time! - in October - November 2015 to pass through the Court of Auditors, so that the funding for the ninety could be integrated, otherwise they would be lost. They'd be lost too! And we weren't late. They were delayed since 2007 who did not find them in sharing and could not end up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Minister. These elements are very concrete and useful for the internal movement made by the new process of people in the EAW and in the intersects. All Members must have them, so that they can inform their regions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u92	I'll testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u93	We move on to the third with number 1189/11-7-2017 a topical question from the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Dimitrios Gakis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "What timetable will be the intensive care unit of young people at the General Hospital of Rhodes?" Mr. Gaki, you've got two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u94	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, this question is submitted for the third time. The two previous times were in 2014. They had their luck getting here today. I hope it doesn't trim the evil today. Of all the services of the state on the Aegean islands, health is the most valuable good. Health services are first in ranking priorities of the islands, as recorded by the World Health Organisation, and in a recent development study for the south Aegean is among the top priorities of the islands. Critical questions about the country's present and future require brave decisions. That's well known. With a view, therefore, to safeguarding the social character of the State and upgrading the services provided, primarily in health and care, in the planning of the state, island regions should be taken seriously into account, with the specific social, geographical and economic characteristics of the islands and a necessary factor in strengthening the health care of citizens. The General Hospital of Rhodes, despite all the adversities it faces for a number of reasons, is consistently strengthened by the government at all levels. From staffing to the provision of modern technology and medical equipment to operate on the basis of special geographical conditions, as I told you, the Aegean. In summary, it would be necessary to implement an island policy in practice in terms of health policy. I, Minister, will not spend my time on statistics, because our policy is still that people should prosper and not numbers. Efficient and functional solutions should therefore be given and regional differences should be minimised in terms of access to health services. In this context, it is crucial for the effective provision of health services for the Dodecanese to take two steps. The first thing I'll tell you right now and the second one in my second speech. The first step is to deal with serious incidents of newborns and young children with the operation of an intensive pups hospital at the General Hospital of Rhodes, a modern unit that will serve the entire area. The operation of MENN at the General Hospital of Rhodes, which will be run by specialist doctors and neonates specialists, together with the already excellent cooperation of doctors and nurses in the pediatric department, we believe it will solve problems faced by the inhabitants of the islands of Dodecanese. Minister, with the operation of the intensive care and treatment unit, we do not aspire to eliminate the problem of aerospace. But we are sure that we will reduce it drastically. MENN is necessary for infants who require special monitoring or intensive hospitalisation immediately after birth. That is why the figures are superfluous here and the costs that the state should spend should not be measured at costs but at the cost of providing services. For all these reasons, therefore, we ask you: will the Government proceed to the operation of an intensive care facility at the General Hospital of Rhodes, and if so, with what timetable will it be managed by qualified personnel and provide the necessary modern medical equipment to the hospital in Rhodes for the effective provision of health services in the Dodecanese and the wider region of the southern Aegean, in line with the real needs of the population?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. Gaki. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u96	Mr Colleague, after we have been able, as I have said to colleagues who spoke before, to balance the basic points of the system, we can move on to some further things. This proposal has been before us last year and from the hospital administration and from you and other Members and from Mr Santorini, etc., as a request from the region. Why, in fact, a very large part of the aerospace facilities in both Rhodes and Mytilini are concerned with the aerosol pups, which need a care, which they cannot have in hospitals. We made some decisions in cooperation with the administration. There is space as far as I know, and there is a plan to shape this area and there is a cost for the conversion of this area and, at the same time, for its equipment, which, with an initial assessment, does not exceed EUR 200,000. This is what we decided to do from the Ministry's reserve in order to start buying this equipment - we are talking about thermos, monitoring monitors, CPAPs, pump systems, intensive hospitalization respirator, etc. - and start the process. In other words, the hospital will be financed with all the amount required from the Ministry of Health reserve in order to make the conversion of the space and the purchase of equipment. Secondly, in the context of the massive proclamation we made available in the past few days, permanent positions of physicians of intensive care units and newly intensified hospitals were announced for the Rhodes Hospital and approved in the Second Health Region and the hospital must now proceed to the call for posts. The notice was given for two positions of curator II for the hospital's ITH and two positions for the MEN of the Hospital of Rhodes. We think that so, this is also in the hospital's hand to run it, - you know the process, there's a time horizon that we've put in three - three and a half months to complete once they've been proclaimed - and in ours, the ministry, to complete the implementation. What I commit and say in public is that approval has already been given for the call for the positions to be taken. The decision was also made to fund the hospital for the purchase of the necessary equipment and the configuration of the space, which does not want much change, than the hospital administration has told us. We believe that this will, in fact, be able to upgrade the services provided by the Rhodes Hospital and, at the same time, reduce the number of courses required by the island of Rhodes or other islands in the centre in order to deal with these incidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u97	We thank the Minister very much for the time. Mr. Gaki, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u98	It is certain, Minister, that the citizens of the Dodecanese have listened with great satisfaction, because, in fact, the water enters the groove, the operation of the Youth Intensive Hospital is under way, and that is very positive. It should be understood that the functioning of the unit, such as the MEN, should also be based on a serious map of population-based substantiated health needs, on which to make the best possible use of all the human and material resources of the system. Its logic must not be communication. It has to be based on recording reality and it should be its strength. Health is a unique intersection of state-of-the-art science and ever-growth technology, the political sensitivity and the great gravity it has for patients and their families. Above all, this also defines the course of the strategic objective for a health system which judges political credibility with regard to the demands of the citizens and the development model we have for our society. Minister, on the question of the functioning of MENN at the General Hospital of Rhodes, as well as on the proper functioning of the other hospitals in the Dodecanese region - which you have just mentioned in other topical questions and you have eaten too much time today for the islands and it is very positive - we always need to have a plan that has the following elements: The treatment of patients in the islands should be done with a reference to the overall medical path and the proper planning of our interventions with a budget support for primary care and with a focus on prevention, direct treatment, care and equipment of medical applications. The second step which must take place immediately after the establishment or at the same time as the operation of the MONN unit is - other colleagues have said so - the operation of the radiotherapy department, the strengthening of the tumor section, a section which is currently served by a valuable doctor in the region of Rhodes, with very great results in terms of both the suffering of people and the cost of the hospitalisation of this particular disease, which is cancer. There is a study by volunteers led by Statis Kousournas, the former Mayor of Rhodes, is in consultation and in good cooperation with the Ministry. This should gradually be implemented. Funded by the South Aegean Region this section. And I think the next step is to modify the hospital body so that the Radiotherapy and Oncology Department can be included. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u99	Thank you very much, Mr Gaki. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u100	Look, Mr Colleague, I understand that now that it really seems that some things are being made, we are constantly asking for more and more. That's fine. Watch out, though, now, for someone has to press firmly and with concrete steps. If you were to tell me last year why don't you make MEN, I'd tell you that wasn't our problem. Here we had half the islands without doctors. Now that they're starting and going, with the motives given and run, let's go one step further. Look at you now. Unfortunately, or fortunately - we are the diamond of the earth - we are an island country. This archipelago wants a project that has a horizon of ten, fifteen years. There was never that plan. It was customer relations. Did the MP have power on an island? Then he took five people. If he didn't, he wouldn't. This was done as it was in all of Greece. This poor thing we've arrested and we're trying to balance with Andreas Xanthos today. We don't have plains coming in on one side and in an hour to go on the other side. We need three serious major secondary hospitals in the Aegean Sea, which will be Syros, Rhodes, Mytilini - these three are - and a serious system of stays. We took the first step in Syros. There's also to you, but it's not his main job, it's research and rescue. And it's the other one that needs to get his base in Mytilini. All three must act as a pole with a specific area of responsibility, where they will bring there the large portion of the incidents and not run them in Athens. This is the long-term planning. Of course, the main specialities need to be strengthened by the hospitals of the other islands. That's the plan. From that point on, we know the study. We're watching her. The first study that had come out had come up with a very high cost. We're waiting to see the second one. We'll see how things go in general. We have also announced the position to strengthen the section of chemo more and not to move people. Crete is close. It could be there right now, too. We installed yesterday a linear accelerator that reduces the anticipation. We'll see the study that will end up now, see the cost. And getting out slowly and from the memoranda we'll be able to fix it everywhere. The central idea, however, is what I told you. There are three serious hospitals with an organised system of stays. There'll be a certain area of responsibility. Syros will be for the Cyclades, Rhodes - you - will be for the southern Aegean and Mytilini for the northern Aegean. That's the plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, very much the Minister. It is important because Greece's geographical distribution is specific and all governments must work with this strategy because the world in remote islands and regions and in mountainous places has difficulties of accessing many times and moving to health centres. We move on to the second with number 1208/11-7-2017, a top-level question from the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament, Emmanuel Konsolas, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'Assessment of the effects of the tax burdens imposed on tourism in the last two years'. The honourable State Secretary for Finance, Mr Catherine Papanatziou, will answer. Mr Emmanuel Konsolas has the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President. May I wish, on the occasion of our debate, good luck in your work, good strength.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u103	Thank you very much, be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u104	I would like to go into this at once so that we do not delay a reason for the limited period of time. Madam President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind my dear colleagues that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government was the one that, following the tax raid on tourism due to the delay in the 2015 negotiations, created problems with regard to the adequacy of economic policy and the burden it has placed on tourism in general. And you know, we must admit that it is not Mr Varoufakis' fault, which we have heard lately, Mr President, but it is your fault, Minister, because, you know, you are simply the main responsibility. The Government is the main responsibility for this development of the cost of tourism. We want in this report to illustrate the following elements, so that we can also discuss the substance of the matter: the increase in VAT in accommodation from 6.5% to 13%. The increase in focus led it from 13% to 24%. The increase in reduced rates of VAT, unfortunately, has caused a terrible burden. The increase in the ETUC in small tourist businesses and in tourist accommodation has led to a dead end for the people active in tourism, which is the backbone of the tourism industry. There have, of course, also been indirect charges, which have caused additional injuries. For example, the increase in fuels has caused terrible problems in the operation of businesses. Indicatively I submit an excerpt to the Minutes from the newspaper "DIMMOCRATIA" which demonstrates this report. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] And, you know, not to bother, Minister, in your answer to tell me that the revenue from VAT has increased because it will be a slippery because we have this information too. And it must be said that this was atrocious you did by increasing these rates. Because it is a question of seeing what the consequences of this tax raid you impose on tourism are. My question is, Minister, have you assessed these consequences? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, give me some time as well from my dentistry. Because you have imposed no competitiveness on the tourist product. I would ask you and I ask you to turn your eyes on our neighbour from the East, Cyprus, to the north of Croatia and Italy to see what is going on there. And we must say that revenues on tourism are another indicator. It's not just taking you to increase the tourist current. The revenues have collapsed in 2016. For example, in 2016 it was reduced by 6.5%, and in more than EUR 900 million the reduction according to the Bank of Greece figures is translated. In addition, the revenues related to the expenditure per tourist in the country in 2016 and from 541 in 2015 went to 471. And that's not all that's done. Expenditure per night was reduced to EUR 68 from 75 as well as to average expenditure on the stay of visitors in the country. That is for 2016 is 6.9 nights from 7.2 in 2015. I also note, Minister, that a reduction is recorded for 2017, according to the Bank of Greece figures. That's not enough. Nor was the effect of the measure abolishing the reduced VAT rates in terms of the sum that it has created wealth in the country. May I also remind you of what you have done, Minister, about the suspension for 2018 concerning islands other than Karpathos and Rhodes? Have you made a decision? Why should I stress that in the context of this defence you have tabled here to a previous question by Mr Kremastinos in relation to the imposition of the tax on overnight, the competitiveness of the tourist current will be further reduced. I would ask you, Minister, to suspend this measure and to reply to us what you will do about the previous measures that you have imposed and made our tourist current uncompetitive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u105	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Dear Minister, you have the floor for three minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. May I also wish you success in your work and good strength. Mr Consola, it is true that since 2011, various economic policy measures have been imposed in our country, mainly aimed at increasing the state's revenue. It's nothing new right now. It should first be noted that our Government has conducted a very tough negotiation with the institutions so that accommodation in hotels and tourist accommodations is not set at 24%, but maintained at the low VAT rate of 13%, which is converted to 9% for islands that have reduced by 31-12-2017 by 30% to maintain the competitiveness of Greek tourism. In addition, we have repeatedly stressed that the regulation of the abolition of the reduced VAT rates on the islands was a political necessity for the government, and not an option, within the framework of the strictly necessary budgetary adjustment measures. While the abolition of the reduced rate would come from 1-1-2017 to the islands of the country's eastern borders, the provisions of Law 4446/2016 regulated their stay at the reduced rate by 30% by 31-12-2017, precisely because of the refugee crisis and the negative consequences that these islands have suffered because of the immigration issue. With regard to HPAI, any change in its factors concerns all property, regardless of the status of owners, natural or legal persons, as well as their functioning, and was deemed to have been required by the change of the objective values in different regions, pursuant to decisions of the Council of State. However, from data from the former General Secretariat of Public Revenue and now Independent Authority of Public Revenue it appears that HICP to natural persons was significantly reduced, and the percentage which has been reduced and remained stable is 91.88% of cases, despite the application of the provisions of the SPC. We had to. I must also remind you that the legislature is more favourable to the property of legal persons, such as hotels used for the production or pursuit of all kinds of business, regardless of the subject of work, for reasons of non-discrimination, so that the supplementary tax is calculated at a rate of one thousand against the rest of the property, which is taxed at a rate of five and a half thousand, while for natural persons there is a tax-free tax. I would like to add to this point that the Ministry of Finance promotes legislation on the exemption from HNVY for the years 2017 and 2018 of buildings after the relevant plot, located within the limits of the municipal units of the Municipality of Lesvos and have proved to have been damaged by the earthquake of 12 June 2017 and the relevant bill is submitted to the House. I'm just reporting it in the papers. As regards the imposition of the residence tax, which you dealt with most time in your speech, he was imposed by Law.4389/2016 with application from 1-1-2018 in hotels, rooms and apartments. It is a fixed amount per day and per room, reduced by half in case of two days, and the amount is determined according to the benefits and degree of luxury of the accommodation, i.e. the stars of the hotel. I will note here that in any case, the Ministry of Finance monitors the effectiveness of the tax policy pursued and evaluates the results of the measures taken. For example, Article 72 of Law 4472/2017 simplified the way the accommodation tax is levied on rooms, since this is no longer relevant to the classification of rooms on the basis of the keys, but a single charge is introduced for all rooms, namely EUR 0,5 per day. Finally, given the budgetary constraints of the Greek economy, if necessary and feasible, we will make further necessary legislation based on social justice and sustainable development. I submit to the minutes the replies of the Services of the Ministry of Finance and the Independent Public Income Authority.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u107	Madam Minister, thank you very much. Dear Mr. Consola, you have one remaining minute with a slight tolerance, because it is a serious matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, this is where we have all witnessed a cynical confession by the Minister that it characterises the implementation of a law on the abolition of the reduced VAT rate on the islands. This is completely absurd and I did not expect to hear it from you, Mrs Papanatsiou. Can I tell you something? You must also admit that, due to the refugee flows, the current of the islands has been aggravated. Will you answer us whether this measure of reduced rates will be extended after 1-1-2018? You didn't answer us. You also told us - an upbringing approach - that you evaluate and monitor the implementation of the measure, in relation to the night-fall that has not yet been implemented. The other things we've discussed, will you assess them? Allow me to say this because you have again insisted on the residence tax: Mrs Papanatsiou, Minister, have you, as a government, assessed what the residence tax is in the competitive countries, in Italy, in Croatia, in Cyprus? It's not a horizontal tax. It's a special tax, which has rewardable benefits. You, not only have a reward, you do not have, but you charge the country as a whole, the tourist product, the people of tourism. It is more burdensome that despite their good will to absorb many of these taxes, they will not be able to compete in the dilemma. The same goes for Spain and other countries. Allow me, by closing this report, to tell you only that studies by the Institute for Economic and Tax Studies, but also by audit firms that supervise agencies, but also by tourism companies, have recorded that indirect and direct taxes exceed 76%. You know what that means, Minister? Let me tell you. Income tax 29%. Prepayment of 29% tax. 6.3% dividend tax. Insurance contributions of 12%. You know, where there are also natural persons, it also has taxation, with the solidarity levy, which you have retained, while saying that you will abolish it, and instead you have increased it, you have permanently. Also, in the calculation method, depending on the amount of income, the rate is up to 10%. There are great and irrational demands of the state by people, who are currently, Minister, holding the economy and the country upright. They're the people of tourism. You know, you have not reduced rates, as the previous government did, because the previous government of Samaras has not dared to abolish the VAT rates on the islands either, but it has also reduced the focus tax, with the results you know. Unfortunately, you will lead visitors from abroad to choose another country and to spend less of those coming from now on in the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u109	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u110	I shall conclude, Mr President. I would ask you, Minister, to make a commitment here to what is going to happen with the refugee and to extend from 1 January, and also to revise the measures that have been imposed on tourism and tourism as a whole, which we have to draw up, a decade-old policy that goes beyond the limits of any government, your government, because the measures you have brought bear the signature of SYRIZA - ANEL.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u111	Dear Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u112	Just the measures we have brought and the results we have brought bear the signature SYRIZA - ANEL. I will not question that at all, Mr Consola. The aim of the Government is, through the development and achievement of the budgetary objectives, to achieve the gradual reduction of the tourist industry from the accumulated financial burdens and the commitments created by the burdensome policies and mistakes of the past, which you and the other governments have brought up to now. I must inform you that the residence fee applies and applies to many countries and popular tourist destinations in Europe. We should also bear in mind that the implementation of the measure will apply from 1-1-2018, so from the next tourist season. The financial results and any impact of the measure will therefore appear at the end of the following year and any adaptation of the legislation will be discussed on the basis of those results. As the relevant bodies informed us, the figures published by the Bank of Greece for 2016 presented significant differences for the first time in relation to the results of other European statistical authorities, as well as the data available to the Ministry of Tourism by EOT, the international organisations, etc. and these discrepancies led to the question of the results of the World Tourism Organisation and ELSTAT, which even requested clarifications on the methodology followed by the Bank of Greece. Following the provision of these clarifications, all data will be taken into account in order to pursue the best policy. With regard to the effect of taxation on Greek tourism, which you made them so important and so widespread, we trust the data provided to us by the Ministry of Tourism, according to which, in 2016, a record of 28 million international arrivals and in 2017 has been spectacularly launched and aims to exceed 30 million tourists.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u113	Thirty-two million.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u114	Thirty-two, said by Mr. Paulakis, who has better information than Crete, than it seems. The growth rates of Greek tourism are over 7% and twice the world average. Restraints for this year's period have increased by 15% to 70% from all foreign markets and there is an unprecedented rise in arrivals, overnights, completeness and tourist revenues, as confirmed by all professionals in the sector. In the end, I believe that the numbers will come to disprove you, as far as the part of Greek tourism is concerned.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Minister. What we are discussing is fiscal consciousness, tax evasion and tax evasion and the establishment of pos, which our government has done, so I think we can avoid transactions that are outside the system so that we can tax all transactions. We move on to the next timely question to which the honourable Minister will answer Mr Andreas Xanthos. It is the first with number 1188/10-7-2017 appropriate question for a second question by the MP Preveza of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Konstantinos Barkas to the Minister of Health about the urgent needs of the Parga and Canalium Health Centres of the Preveza Prefecture, as well as the creation of the EKAV Section Parga-Canalliou. Mr. Barkas has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u116	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, and by this Step I would like to stress that in the last two years, the leadership of the Ministry of Health has stimulated the heart of the health system in the Preveza Prefecture, which is the hospital. The systematic effort of the Ministry of Health to support and upgrade the public health system of Preveza Prefecture has brought very significant results, as the strengthening of the General Preveza Prefecture to personnel, medical, nursing and administrative, has overcome the expected predictions, are very important and improved the level of public and free health services for all citizens of Preveza Prefecture, as well as of the wider region. However, Minister, important deficiencies in health centres, particularly in medical staff, are presented in the Preveza Prefecture. The image of the Preveza Prefecture is not what corresponds to the needs of the citizens of the prefecture. In particular, the two health centers, Paris and Canalaki, are facing acute staffing problems, as I said before, so that their daily and safe invention on a 24-hour basis is not possible. Unfortunately, health centers keep 15 days a month alternately with each other. In this context, one of the permanent demands of local society is the creation of an EKAB Sector in this area, due to the geographical, transport and tourism specificity of the Municipality of Parga. It is noted that the Municipality of Parga is the most dynamic tourist destination of Epirus and the second potential destination - proportionally - of the country. Already, the administration of the EAW of the 7th region has decided to create an EAW Section in the Mesopotamos. It is the interim position, between the two capitals of the two Preveza and Thesprotia prefectures. It is the intermediary of this route to upgrade the urgent pre-private care of its area of responsibility. While the Municipality of Parga has decided to grant free of charge the property of the Community Office of the local community of Mesopotamou for the establishment of the EAW of this sector. After that, you ask, Minister: First, what action will the Ministry take to ensure that the two centres of health of Parga and Kanali on a daily basis provide health services to citizens and visitors of the Municipality of Parga? Secondly, what is the Ministry's timetable for the implementation of the EAW sector? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u117	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes to begin with.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u118	My dear colleague, rightly so, I think you have pointed out the fact that last two years a very systematic effort has been made to meet the most urgent needs, first of all, of public hospitals in the country, to prevent the collapse of the whole system and I believe that this has already been achieved by the staff of the health system, but above all by the citizens, namely that there is a stable and constantly improving functioning of public hospitals. That's exactly what happened in your area. To a large extent, the main reason, which is a protracted difficulty in getting these two health centers into 24-hour daily on-call is mainly due to the fact that part of their medical staff, who are anyway very incomplete, meets the hospital's on-call needs, and the emergency department and the medical clinic. Indeed, these two health centres are subordinated in terms of medical capacity. There are gaps even in agricultural medicine, where unfortunately, despite the efforts we have made and despite the fact that we have given extra financial incentives to many regional medical establishments in the country, this is a real difficulty, which we have as a health system. In other words, not all the needs are met and there is no way of dealing with the problems that exist, particularly in the islands and in the difficult areas. To a large extent, this is due to the large stream of scientific migration in recent years, which has been deprived of our country by doctors, especially young doctors. What are we doing right now? Firstly, we ensure that the interchange of newspapers also works in the Paris Health Centre twenty-two days a month, mainly by moving from neighbouring structures of the health system. Therefore, the health region has ensured that especially in this area, which, in the summer time, receives a very large volume of visitors and thus increases the demand for health services, moves from the Ioannina PEN, the Margariti Health Centre and the Institutional Health Center, which alternately contributes to the 24-hour publicity of the Health Center twenty-two days a month, first covering all three days, where there is the peak of the tourist movement, but also some of the other days. Accordingly, it is also made available at the Canalium Health Centre, where it covers three days and a few days of the week as a priority. So the attempt we are going to make next time - we will discuss this, we have also asked for a relative suggestion from the 6th health region - is to see whether there is any possibility of one of the regional hospitals belonging to these two health centres in order to incorporate them into the agony so that they can be covered by the 400 euro allowance, which is a very important economic incentive. You know, of course, that we have already established two additional regional medical establishments in these centres in the previous period, which, unfortunately, were not covered in the notices. This is in terms of meeting the immediate needs. Here I must say that we are preparing a set of recruitments of permanent doctors from the ESS, four hundred for the whole country, which will serve today's primary health care structures, beyond these new structures, which will be developed through the new primary care model. So these four hundred permanent ERC doctors' posts will be allocated to the rural-type health centres, such as these, and to the health units of the EMCDDA, with a priority on the basis of needs, the rate of vacancies, the specialities we need, etc. I think, therefore, that in this design we will look at the need for significant support, covering both the region's needs on a permanent basis and on a permanent basis - that is what is important. Also...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u119	Minister, if you will, you will tell your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u120	Yeah, I'll say a word about the NSAB, and I'll tell the rest of it in dentistry. For the EMCDDA now, what we have also done is the following. There is indeed this decision of the Management Board of the EAW. To implement this decision obviously, certain minimum requirements are needed, not so building facilities, but mainly staffing with permanent staff, rescuers, etc., because you know that the staff standards of the EMCDDA's ambulances are increased. What we are also doing at this time is, through a call of interest made by the EKAV Epirus sector, to ensure that two people have been strengthened by an ambulance stationed at the Park Health Center, covering peak hours by late afternoon, so in the long, say, demand for emergency pre-medical care services. That's the one. Also, on weekends it is supported with two other people, who come from the EKAV Ioannina sector. This is for the immediate needs to meet the most pressing needs of this period. Here, too, there is the issue that has been discussed in the overall planning for all of Greece, to develop an additional aerospace base in Aktio. So far there have been two aerospace bases: one in Elefsina and one in Rhodes. Added one to Syros. Next period we are preparing to develop in the northeastern Aegean, in Mytilini, and we are talking about the Aktio. This strengthens the operational capacity of the EMCDDA to respond quickly, in particular the need to carry out serious incidents. However, I think what you all understand is very important, first of all, that the Preveza Hospital is operational so that it can deal with the serious cases which will, in any case, be transported from health centres there and cannot be transported to a large degree at primary level.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u121	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Barka, please, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u122	Minister, it is acceptable to everyone, even from the hard main opponents of this government - and I am talking about the opponents of the government at local level, those who disagree with the government's strategy at local level, in the Preveza Prefecture - that the Preveza Hospital now, in relation to the image we received - and I am talking about December 2014, in January 2015 - the hospital in Preveza is now a hospital which has all the basic functions, all the basic specialities of doctors, so that it can deal with the incidents. The doctors are coming, almost all the clinics are working full, as far as medical staff are concerned. Therefore, the heart of the public health system in the prefecture is acceptable to everyone, even to the opponents, that it works well. We must say that the fact that it was not working well was a political project that you presented from the previous governments, which we overthrown throughout. But I must say, Minister, that the operation of health centres, particularly in an area of extremely tourists such as Parga, is something that should definitely concern us. The alternating newspapers of doctors and health centres have not started now, Minister, it has been a long time. Indeed, during the summer months, the Ministry's leadership and the Ministry's co-operation with the authorities of the county are trying to meet needs, because then there is population overcrowding. At the moment, Parga is estimated to have about thirty - five thousand visitors. She needs a hospital. The Canalium Health Centre also covers needs of the Ioannina Prefecture. And the Canalaki has tourists to cover. So I think it is very important that you place yourself in competition with the four hundred permanent doctors in order to meet the needs of these kinds of health centres in Greece. Minister, I must point out this: unfortunately, the most recent intakes in health centres were, if I am not wrong, in 2010. And these recruitments were carried out with such customer-based logics, which means that there is overcrowding of doctors in some health centers, while in next-side health centers, within fifteen to twenty kilometers, there is the picture of no medical staff. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] These things I think should be a step and a thought - if you like - for the head of the ministry to "break" that kind of perception. And I am sure that it is in your mind, your thoughts and your function - you have proved it - that it is in the process of breaking. As far as the EAFRD is concerned, of course, they are now covering the coastal route. There is an EKT which, as you rightly say, covers any accidents now. The leadership of the EKT in Jannah has taken such an ambulance. I don't know if it's what you said, what's stationed at the Park Health Center. I don't know if we're talking about the same thing. But I believe that this decision of the Ministry is positive. Because the Ministry has first decided to build an EKAB sector in the Mesopotamos position. The location of the Municipality of Parga, the municipal council, which grants a building to cover these needs is positive. I think we should speed up this process. After all, there are people who meet the requirements in the EAW so that they can come to the region. I would like, Minister, to conclude with this: it is a fact that you have indeed included the Preveza Prefecture in order to be considered an infertile area, a barren prefecture. Therefore, subsidiary doctors have been staying for three years. Also, your leadership had opened up positions of subsidiary doctors, pathologists for health centers. Unfortunately, no one came. No one agreed to take this place. I am referring to the Parga and Canalium Health Centers. It is also true that two rural hospitals are considered barren. So we get the extra four hundred euros, as the law says. Also, Minister, the Parga City Council also grants space...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u123	My dear colleague, I would ask you to shorten up, because we have gone far beyond time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u124	Mr President, you are very strict for the first time I see you in the Chair. The Municipality of Parga also covers the needs of any doctors who will come to the municipality, giving them a home. I think that all of this is consistent with helping the region. I stand in your commitment that the next four hundred doctors recruits will be in areas like these two health centers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u125	Thank you very much, Mr Barca. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u126	Indeed, we recognise that the intervention of aid to primary care facilities went a little back, because priority over the past two years was first to support the public hospitals, which had the great accumulation there. You know very well that the Primary Care System was being reorganized, especially from the urban centers. So, the pressing need was that. The hospitals therefore accumulated a large volume of incidents, especially in the on-call. This has largely been achieved, elsewhere better, elsewhere less. This year, we are making a systematic effort to give priority and support to primary care by supporting today's structures, by upgrading their laboratories, helping to meet more people's needs, by strengthening their operation and 24-hour operation, where it is necessary and necessary, but by promoting at the same time a new plan - which I hope we will have the opportunity to discuss in the next few days - with the new local health units. So that's the direction. But, my dear colleague, you should know that the Ministry has no tank of doctors that it can place at will. What he can do is publish positions and manifest interest. Unfortunately, however, despite the fact that we have given the extra incentives, despite the fact that we have strengthened the possibility of hiring subsidiary doctors to hospitals, but also to primary care structures, there are areas in the country that do not meet and do not cover gaps. I think that we really need to see again all the modalities that exist, which are mainly involving inappropriate, island, arid regions, and to improve, in synergy and with local authorities, the incentives to attract these needs in a more systematic way. That's our target, too. We are therefore trying, in addition to these interventions that we are trying to strengthen the system's response, particularly to the urgent incidents by upgrading the EAW by strengthening the aerospace, by strengthening telemedicine especially for the Aegean Sea. We are trying, as far as possible, to strengthen this improved response of the system and, above all, to strengthen the sense of health protection for the citizens and visitors of the country. This is a crucial component of the daily lives of people living in a region, but I think it is also a very powerful element that strengthens the country's tourism product. It is a very powerful element to have public and reliable health structures and to know that visitors can, when needed, have effective care. We are therefore in this direction. It is difficult and that is undeniable. But we believe that the political will to move forward and constantly cover more gaps and needs is absolutely given and strong.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u127	Thank you very much, Minister. I want to make a comment on the last thing you said. The contribution of the health system to tourism and the tourism product is very important. If the tourist leaves with good health services, we're beaten! - for any accident, it's an extra ad for our country. And I think we have fallen with due care on this matter. I should also like to add that, as far as the Ministry of National Defence is concerned, taking the list of your needs per post in the territory and especially in the places that are barren, they are going to probies - we have done this as a government, and we have to take note of it - who submit their request to go to serve in barren areas. And that's something that's happening. So that's how we cover these needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u128	Mr President, there should be a few more comments. I say it because you're new.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u129	Series is the first with number 5762-22-2017 question of the circle of petitions and questions by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARK KEgeroglou Vassiliou to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: ‘Acknowledgement on the amount of the amount calculated under Article 199(4) of Law 2717/1999 of the Court of Justice paid in order to make final and irrevocable judgments against voting’. The question will be answered by the honourable Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Mr Stavros Kontonis. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr President. For the time being, I thought another question was inserted. I shall refer very quickly, because the time has already come. Minister, in order to make final and irrevocable judgments of the administrative courts, in accordance with Article 199(4) of Law 2717/1999, there is an obligation to pay a court fee of 1.17% on the amount requested by the plaintiff. Because in many cases, in the vast majority, there is a great difference between the amount requested and what is ultimately in the case, we ask you whether you intend to consider amending existing legislation by removing the unfair burden on citizens, the difference between the applicant and the amount claimed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u131	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr President. Before answering the question of my dear colleague, I would like to make a reference to the decision of the five-member appeals office, which was issued a few hours ago, and to say that it was an unpleasant surprise for us. This is because, firstly, the position of the applicant, that girl, who has been sentenced to a long term sentence, was absolutely exemplary at the time of her case, after having complied with all those forced procedural measures which had been imposed on her. Secondly, she, respecting our legal system, took advantage of the procedural tools provided by the Code of Criminal Procedure to remove certain restrictive conditions which prevented her from scientific development, particularly the lifting of a ban on the possibility of traveling abroad. The third, Mr President, is that citizens demand and demand equal measures and equal weight for all. It is strange, at least, that some who have been sentenced to multiannual prison sentences for drug trafficking may have the benefit of suspending them until appeals have been tried and in other cases, such as the one in question, it has not been possible to obtain such benefits, nor by the court which issued the judgment, nor by the court which it has held today. But, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress one thing else: the actions which have taken since the decision was adopted, namely violence and verbal attacks on the judges who constituted the court, are unacceptable and condemnable. This is because not only are they defaming the effort and struggle made by this girl to prove the validity of her claims and the effort made by her lawyers to convince her legal and factual facts and claims, which they are developing before the court, but because above all, the judges are human and as humans make mistakes. For this very reason, the Code of Criminal Procedure provides for the possibility of submitting a new application, which will be decided by the same court, obviously with another composition. I would like to say, therefore, that, as I am surprised at this decision, we can only condemn these events, which are directed against judges. In the opinion of one or other of the judges may have been wrong, but in any case an organised society cannot operate otherwise. And the right to the proper functioning of justice and the courts is determined to defend it in every legal way. On the question which Mr Kegeroglu has asked, I would like to say this: ladies and gentlemen, the procedure described in the Act concerning the conversion of a request from a voter to an ID is clear. I also think it is clear that the law and anyone who does not understand it absolutely should also take a look at the explanatory statement, which sets out several issues. What's going on here? The first thing I would like to stress is that a plaintiff can turn the request from a voter to an I.D. and in this way not to pay the legal act provided for. The legislator came and said that in order not to have reopen proceedings or to have further recourse to the issue of a payment order or anything, that is to say in an attempt by the plaintiff to obtain an enforceable title, the identification result, the result issued on the appeal, should be converted into a voter and that the plaintiff should be executed. It goes without saying that in such a case the court will pay the amount ordered in recognizing the claim. And I am surprised that, obviously, you will have something in mind to ask this question - there are law-makers who are doing something else than what I am describing to you. And I would like to support what I say to you in the explanatory statement, which states in particular: 'The new arrangement is expected to work reassuringly for the plaintiff, giving him the obligation to make an advance payment of the judicial document, when the final outcome of the case is still unknown - and be careful! - and the amount to be ordered.' So when the explanatory statement says to us 'and the amount to be ordered', it says nothing but that the judicial record of the conversion of the claim into a vote will be paid on the amount which has been awarded and not on the claimant's application. That is why, Mr President, I do not think there is any need for any further legislation rather than any further information from any judges who interpret this provision very closely and in an extremist dogmatic manner without even taking into account the explanatory statement accompanying the law and solving the problems that may have arisen. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u133	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u134	Minister, I think that by reading the explanatory statement, which is the fact that I had not referred back to see for myself what was the spirit of the legislature when it introduced this provision, the interpretation you have given and the fact that you referred to the explanatory statement is resolved. Because in the absence of a clear interpretation - at first sight, however, because of what you said, the provision is very clear - they did not apply what is provided for by the law. In this sense, I think this whole world is indeed covered in these cases, which really should not be burdened with when there is a huge difference between the amount requested and the amount requested. That's what I think he's going to do. Besides, if the question had been answered, it wouldn't have arrived here. In other words, I did not make it as timely but as written, but for some reason it was not answered. So we would have avoided the conversation. Let me also say a word about the comment you made in relation to the court ruling. I believe that once there is a new request in order to ask for a new release decision - I think that was the request - of this prisoner, but also of every prisoner, that is an insurance policy of the same system as we have. From there on, I, too, believe that under no circumstances should the reaction to judicial decisions be the one I read on electronic media - I had no other opportunity of information - that it was after the court ruling. In this sense, I reserve what happened. However, I believe that the system we have given the opportunity and indeed justice can be guaranteed in all things that, when it is a hot case, we consider it unfair. And it may be unfair, but in the end a request can be accepted. So what matters is the final result rather than what is provisionally issued. I would like to thank you for answering the question and wish, Mr President, good work. You started today, I think?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u135	Today! Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u136	I will not go back to the subject of my statement. I think it was clear. However, I would like to stress this. As I have described in my prototype, the usual course of a case, if the 2010 legislation had not been inserted, would have been the citizen, the plaintiff, after having obtained a positive judicial decision on the request for recognition, to then issue a payment order or repeat the entire cycle of the case, having now brought as a concrete amount the decision on recognizing the amount. Why do I say that? Because I really am surprised that there are law enforcement officers who are circumventing this whole process and approaching it in a narrow and wrong way. I'm stressing this thing. I would therefore like to say, Mr President, that the 2010 legislation just tried to reopen the procedure either before the courts or through the issue of a payment order, which, from now on, you are aware that it could put an end to interruptions, insurance measures and so on. That's what the legislator tried to do in 2010. And I ask: is that not understood? Why has this legislation finally come about and how can it be circumvented both by itself and by the explanatory statement, which has been thoroughly and without any doubt, says why this legislative initiative has been taken? I therefore believe that today's debate highlights some aspects that might not have been taken into account. In any case, however, I think that the law-enforcementers should be more flexible not in terms of the law, but in terms of why a legislative initiative has been taken, such as this one and we should not have the phenomena that have been described. But I would like to say to you, Mr President, why the written question has not been answered. We tried to collect evidence from the administrative prototypes to see the size of the problem. This delay has exceeded the time we have had to respond to, but every obstacle to good news in Zakynthos. It is better to have the oral debate. Watch out. We're still trying to have a clear picture. What we have in mind is that these cases are isolated and, therefore, I do not think there is a need for regulation. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you at this point that, after a letter from the General Secretariat of the Government to the Greek Parliament and the Special Secretariat of the President of Parliament, we will read out the list of topical questions which will not be discussed by the relevant ministers and which are the following. Due to the obstruction of Deputy Minister of Finance Mr.Huliarakis, the third question under number 1181/7-7-2017 will not be discussed at the time of the first question by MP II Athens of the Democratic Symphony of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdou to the Minister of Finance on the subject: "At the same time, measures in favour of small savers who lost their money with the debt cut in 2012." Nor will the second report be discussed under No 5958/576/30-5-2017 - question and application for the submission of documents by the Independent MEP II, Georgios - Dimitrios Karras, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Are alternatives sought or not, in order to avoid a new reduction in pension expenditure with the last of Law 4472/2017?" Due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance, Mr.Euklidis Tsakalotou, on the grounds of "workload", the fifth will not be discussed under number 1119/3-7-2017 in the second cycle of the United Vice-President of Parliament and Mr. Piraeus II of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance on the theft of electricity. Nor will the seventh question, under number 1032/16-6/2017, be discussed in the context of a second question by MP II Piraeus, of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the bet companies. Also, the eighth question under number 1026/16/2017 will not be discussed at the end of the eighth session of the Independent MEP Mr. Dimitrios Koukoutsis to the Minister of Finance on the subject: ‘The perspective and needs of the international airport of Kalamata’. Nor will the eleventh question, number 931/2-6-2017, be discussed in the context of the second question of the Athens MP, Mr. Georgios Amyras, on the 'SIEMENS' case. The twelfth question under number 924/1-6/2017 will not be discussed in the context of the second question of the Athens Parliamentary II of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zaroulias to the Minister of Finance, concerning the "definition of a court of law in the administration of the Supreme Council". And we will not discuss the tenth third with number 948/6-2017 a topical question by MP II Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Sakis Vardalis to the Minister of Finance regarding the Greek Vehicle Industry "ELVO ABE". Due to the blockade of the Minister of Health, the ninth will not be discussed under number 976-6-2017, a topical question from the Plenipotentiary of the People's League - Golden Dawn, Mr.Salvation Vlachos, to the Minister of Health, on the topic: "Halkidiki's Deficiencies put the lives of citizens at risk". Due to the impediment of the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr.Gavroglou, the tenth question under number 923/1-6/2017 will not be discussed at the time of the second question of the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Pappas to the Minister of Education, Research and Religion on the subject: "Fullement of the Battle of the Nation". Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Wednesday 3 May 2017, Wednesday 17 May 2017, Friday 19 May 2017 and Monday 22 May 2017 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u138	The minutes of Wednesday 3 May 2017, Wednesday 17 May 2017, Friday 19 May 2017 and Monday 22 May 2017 were validated. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-17-S1-commons.u139	With the consent of the House for 20.28 minutes the sitting for Wednesday, 19 July 2017, on the subject of the House's work: legislative work, in accordance with the agenda to be distributed to you.
