ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS Today, eleven topical questions will be discussed. There have been postponed for several reasons, which will be announced in the course of the debate, seven times. So now we will be discussing the first first under number 412/30-1-2017, the first-round question, by MP Kilkis of the New Democracy, George Georgios Georgios Georgios, to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the immediate need to relocate the Kilkis Peace Court. The Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights will answer Mr. Stavros Kontonis. Here, Mr Georgioda, you have the reason to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, thank you, firstly, for the immediate response to the debate on the topical question, because very quickly since the question has been tabled it is already being discussed. I mean the following. The question of the accommodation of the judiciary services of Kilkis, for those who know the subject, is a history of long and well-trained, let me be allowed to speak. An effort has been made to build a privately owned mansion, because we are deprived in all judicial services of a private nature. A building is rented, where the Kilkis Court of First Instance is located and another 'building' - and I say it in introductory form - in which the Kilkis Peace Court is located. A solution was found to address the issue in 2014, when the Minister then signed the relocation of the judicial services to a rented building of the Holy Metropolis. The rent was made by the State Building Agency. We all thought that the necessary studies and interventions could be carried out in this building. And to note that in this building, studies and interventions, Metropolis itself took over to do so. However, unfortunately, on December 31st ended the contract with the Holy Metropolis, as the public, the "THEMIDA CONSTRUCTION", "KITIAN INDUSTRIES S.A." no longer fulfilled their obligation for the necessary studies, so that all judicial services of Kilkis can then be established and that all judicial services of Kilkis can be housed there. But what has emerged very strongly in recent years is the very bad situation in the Kilkis Peace Court, as it is a very old 1967 building, in which no renovation has ever been made, a building without central heating, a building in which there is only one stove, can be imagined in the only conference room. However, with the bad times of recent years, the moisture there has been, the lids that are old and for which the owner, due to the low rent, does not show any willingness to replace them, they have brought to a marginal extent the possibility of staying and working there, both judges and lawyers, but also of having access to citizens. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Also, a trial was postponed due to bad weather. Minister, my request today is specific only for the Kilkis Peace Court. I wish there was a solution immediately to give us or complete this previous intervention on the relocation of all services. However, the Kilkis Peace Court case seems to me to be easy to resolve, as it is only one meeting room and three - four offices. So they could be moved to a public building in Kilkis, as there are public buildings free of charge, so that there would also be a financial advantage for the Greek State.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Georgioda. The Minister has the floor, Mr. Kontonis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I would like to tell you that a few days ago I received a letter signed by you, the Metropolitan, the MP of SYRIZA Mr Parastatides, representatives of the Bar Association, the President and the representative of the Workers' Association. I would therefore like to tell you in advance that I agree. Indeed, there is a serious problem, which, of course, as you have quite rightly and sincerely mentioned, has been placed over a number of years ago. Unfortunately, there was no government care in Kilkis to gather the judicial services in a building and indeed in a public building. On the other hand, we have a situation here which should probably be one of the few in Greece from the image I have. In other words, the judicial services, including the Prosecutor's, are in different rented buildings, and that is why there is a problem, both functional and essential. As far as this issue is concerned, we have here in Kilkis, from what I have heard from the services, a building in which no improvement has been made. It is a rental in which the owner has not carried out the necessary maintenance - as, of course, many court orders - and because of the bad weather in recent months further problems have arisen. Now what's the story, and how's the evolution? Indeed, there was a first approach to renting a metropolitan property, which would be able to house all the judicial services. And while the process was normally going on and on our Government, a serious issue arose. The assessment of the "KYP", which is the company that succeeded the "THEMIDA CONSTITUTION", notified us that to complete the necessary tasks of this building - I mean studies and work that will enable this building to accept a large number of visitors, since we are talking about a public service, and indeed a court palace, which in certain hours has a great audience - the cost can reach from EUR 800,000 to EUR 1 million. You realise, Mr President, that if you were in the position of any minister of any government, you could not approve such an expense, because it is particularly high and it is an expense which will not go to a public building but to a rented building. Therefore, from that point on, we are considering alternatives. And I am glad to see in your question you now mention as the case in question the metastabilization of the Tribunal alone in the first phase, which is also facing the most acute problems. We are working on this at the moment. If anything further needs to be done, Mr President, I will return to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Georgiod, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u6	Minister, the only thing I will disagree with - and I will not disagree with it is that the engineers of the Cilkis Metropolis - are that what the 'CITIANS INDUSTRIALS S.A.' considered it necessary for the Metropolitan Building to be able to adapt to the seismic protection law, with data today on a building which was built as a public meeting area with provisions that were in place a few years ago, is wrong. I have this view, the scientifically substantiated view of Metropolitan engineers. We know that. It had passed this building by the Committee for the Adequacy of the Judicial Services of Kilkis, it had been approved all the minutes, it had become the lease and there have been two things left to do: "THE ADVANCER", "KIRIAN INVESTMENTS S.A.", now, to do the necessary studies and Metropolis with its own costs to make the necessary interventions. In any case, I would ask you to see this because I, too, understand that a million cannot be given to a rented building - I understand it - but when we started this process, none of the scientists who saw the issue did tell us that such an intervention was necessary. Even now, as the "KIRIANS INVESTMENTS S.A." have said, there are serious objections on the part of the scientists of the Holy Metropolis, the scientific associates of the Holy Metropolis and the Bar Association Kilkis. In any case, Minister, I think that you should immediately find a way to deal with this issue and to overcome this barrier, of money. And this is a request for all the legal world of Kilkis and all the citizens of Kilkis. You know, the meeting rooms of the Kilkis courts are rooms which they visit and many times prisoners from the neighbouring country of Skopje. When the police direct them to the so-called courthouses, all that shows that there is a court palace there is the Greek flag outside. The space in nothing reminds of a room in which justice must be given. Especially for the Peace Court, which I know, my request is this. I wish you could find a solution and start all together and we will make a patience. However, if there is no immediate solution, which I think there can be, the Peace Court needs to be transferred immediately. There is a building in the two hundred metres from there, which is free and is a public building, which, because of the fact that this period is not being used, has already deteriorated and which we will be able to support. And there can be this metaphor very quickly. It's a request, because it's imperative. It is a joint request, as you have seen, of all the institutions of Kilkis and I think it is your obligation toward a city, which is really in the worst situation of all the cities in Greece, because in all inspections carried out it is recorded that the worst building, the worst situation in the judiciary, is that of the city of Kilkis. So please find a solution either overall, in the design that has been made or otherwise immediately. I would like to say this directly, because there is indeed the possibility - for the Kilkis Peace Court alone. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Georganta. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Unfortunately, the issue that we are discussing, as I have stressed in my prototype, has also been mentioned by my colleague, has been a protracted abandonment of the Kilkis judiciary by governments over the last 40 years. It was an issue that could have been resolved, especially in the years of economic development. Developments could have been initiated and today we are not talking about the deadlock that both the judicial officers and the fellow lawyers and the legal world in Kilkis, but also of citizens who are in charge of justice. So I say that it is better not to go into the assessment of whether the scientific opinions expressed by the engineers of the 'CIS' or other colleagues, apart from this body, are correct or wrong. That's not our job. I am particularly pleased that you too recognise the fact that no Minister can sign such an expenditure when this expenditure is one third of the increase in the budget for the Ministry of Justice this year. Three million we have been able to secure more than last year. You can understand that if one-third of this expenditure is directed only at this area, which is the studies and work on the suitability of this building, we will get away from every limit. It is also true - and you are right - that the initial assessment was that around EUR 80,000 will be required. This has, however, been completely overthrown by the fact that the previous government, but also our own, had almost completed the procedures and had signed the documents, and this shows a good option to solve the problem and it will be resolved. I have to say this evening that Immediately - when I say immediately I mean in the next quarter good things - I will visit Edessa and Kilkis, because they are two counties that have similar problems with building. We'll see and deal with them. In any case, we are considering the solution which you are proposing, namely the OAED public building in the town of Kilkis, and I hope that at least we will have a change in the services of the Peace Court. I believe, however, that the right thing is to see firstly whether there are possibilities for gathering all judicial and public prosecutors in a building, and, if possible, for being a public building. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with the first with number 91/5-10-2016 question of the First Vice President of the Parliament and MP of Athens, New Democracy. Nikita Kaklamanis, to the Minister of Migration Policy, on the programme of renting apartments for refugees by the Athens Development and Tourism Promotion Company (ETA). The question will be answered by the Minister for Migration Policy, Mr Ioannis Mousalas. Mr Vice-President, you have the floor for the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, this timely question I no longer know how timely it is, since, as we have all heard, it was tabled on 5 October. It's been four months for the time being to be discussed in the House. I know, of course, that for the questions which I had put you tried to get answers from the Municipality of Athens, which, instead of pressing a button on his computer, was a programme contract from the City's Development Society and the High Authority - and giving you all the information, every week he took you to the next week to collect the information. This has made me very suspicious in adopting what I read in the daily press about the implementation of this programme. Just for it to be written in the Minutes and for them to understand and for those who listen to us, I will read my questions. I won't read the whole reasoning. In other words, as far as the delay is concerned, I am giving you a discharge. It was not your fault, I was also told by your office that you would not come because you did not have the evidence. On the substance of the matter now, I would like you to answer - I imagine you have been sent to the Minutes and I would ask you to submit them to me later - how many apartments have been leased by the City's Development Company? What is the total cost of this project and how much money has been spent on renting the apartments? The contract was for two hundred apartments and a thousand two-served. What is the total cost of the project and how much money has been spent on granting prepaid cards to supermarkets? How many are the beneficiaries? Have there been a thousand hundred people in there right now when we're talking? How many people are involved in the implementation of the programme? When has each of them been recruited and by what process did the recruitment become? I know that it is not done by the Ministry, but that does not mean that the NGOs have a white card and take whatever criteria they want those they hire. How much money from the total budget of the project comes from European Union resources and how much of us, namely Greece? Who are the project committee and what criteria have been chosen - as I have told you - by those who will serve this project? Because luck brought it this way, in my protology, I would like to ask a question about the Greek one. As far as I know, there was a programme contract between the "Greek S.A." and the government for the concession of the site. What end date does this contract have? Is he still in force? Is it over? And if it hasn't expired, when will it end? Finally, when it is foreseen that they will be converted, because we all know - and I shall end, Mr President, with that - that the projects for the renewal of the Greek - we are talking about an investment of 8.2 billion - cannot begin, since these unfortunate people are there. The second problem is that it's stuck on another issue, which is none of your business, in the signature of a master. Leave the master's signature. However, the removal of the particulars in other areas is also a suitable prerequisite for the start of the works. That is why, if you know, I want to know when the contract is over or when the ends.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr. Kaklamani. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u12	Mr. Caclamani, may I apologise for the delay? We really tried too hard. In some things there was a difficulty in accessing. Finally, the Municipality of Athens helped us. It was an ongoing program. Let me first tell you about the Greek. I will produce the contract here and submit it for the Minutes. Right now, I can't answer you. As you know, I've taken over the part of the responsibility that concerns me. In relation to the delay in the Greek, we are making a huge effort. The delay - if there is a delay - of the projects in the Greek, is not due to the refugees and immigrants who live there. I think we're always making places so we can cover it up. In any case, I will give you a written answer and a more complete answer to what you have been asking. Let's go to the program. This programme is part of a programme which was signed about a year ago between us, the European Commission and the UNHCR. That's when he was Guterres High Commissioner. Now he's the president of the UN. It provided for the creation of twenty thousand hosting places throughout Greece. This overall programme, which is under way, has shown a great deal of delay at first, even though it is not a programme that we are carrying out. We gave a lot of help, with his logic that a hundred apartments are a camp less. We spit out blood to help out there. He's having troubles. It's not easy for the other person to give his apartment. Such things had to be overcome. The programme is almost complete at the moment. For Attica, Athens, I read the information: The program provided for a thousand eight hundred hospitality places, initially a thousand two hundred and then four hundred eighty and sixty all over Attica. The High Authority and the municipality signed in March. The standards were defined according to the laws. The hospitality began in June 2016. There was no flaw here. It's one of the programs that it looks like they're running better. We have more apartments - two hundred and fifty instead of two hundred - one thousand eight hundred forty - and a thousand ninety-four refugees and immigrants have been hosted by the end of January 2017. We also have a full budget absorption and a special model structure was created in an old clinic - you might know it - in Kapodistriou 4. The apartments, which by the end of January have been leased, are two hundred and fifty eight. By the end of January, there are two hundred thirty-eight, with a thousand five hundred beneficiaries. We've got 92% completeness. The remaining twenty are being prepared with waiting for the Asylum Service and the High Commissioner. The total cost of the project - and this is very interesting - is 4,446,500 euros, including the new structure of the old hospital. Four hundred fourteen thousand have been spent for rents, a million for equipment and are renewed for 2017 legally and in good time. So the cost is 4,046,000. For 2017, 653.029 euros have been channelled for prepaid cards, 56.000 euros for TEKO accounts and 119.000 euros for means of transport tickets. The beneficiaries are a thousand nine hundred sixty-four, 56% of whom are children. Of these, the four hundred nineteen have relocated to a total of thirteen European Union countries. The programme is also concerned with relocation. We mainly have people who are subject to relocation. We called on the European Commission, following the caging of people, and extended for asylum seekers and especially for vulnerable groups, such as elderly and young children. The choice is made by the Asylum Service and the UN High Commissioner, under International Law. Of those living in Athens, 86% are from Syria, 7% are from Afghanistan, 6% are from Iraq, 1% from Eritrea and 0% from Palestine. I'll give you the evidence. On the basis of the information we have received and in which we have no possibility of intervention, there are hundreds of three professionals on a daily basis, eighty-nine full-time. Each of them has been hired under a fixed-term contract - but it is not our choice for professionals or their reward or anything - without social scientists, district supervisors, interpreters, administrative staff, pediatricians, gynecologists, pathologists, psychiatrists. The monthly fee - I quote, for example, without being able to swear on it - for doctors is EUR 2,500 for psychologists EUR 2,000 for the administrative staff of EUR 1,500. The total payroll for 2016 was EUR 1,024,000. All money is from European resources. There is no participation of the Greek state. The Committee consists of the district of Athens, the County of Social Solidarity and Gender Equality, the office of Mayor of Athens and the EBRD. Criteria are considered to be merital. I want to repeat two things: we have no possibility of appointment, that is, to appoint him or him. It is a program that runs the Municipality of Athens with the High Authority. I want to tell you that, despite all the delays, it is a successful program. We're trying to make another program like this in Livada, and we're doing it. And there is this programme, which we want to build in Crete as well, and we have been delayed. I'll testify the evidence for the Minutes. Thank you very much, because we may have been late to respond, but it was an opportunity to take a full analysis of the facts, which we had in part.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u13	Good, Minister. You should put it out for the Minutes, so that Members can be informed. Mr. Kaklamani, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, first of all, I am pleased with the information you have given me. Please testify to them, so I can check them out. Of course, the fact that there is a doctor's salary of EUR 2,500 today - and we both know how much the salaries of doctors in the HR are - is a matter, not why they get the EUR 2,500. Although it's not your responsibility, I wonder how the choices are made. Of course, the work these people do is not pleasant. It's a very difficult job. But how choices are made is something you may typically not be responsible for, but we have to look at it. Is there a proclamation? Is there a call? They're getting CV? Does anyone see them? I will, however, study the papers you will present to me. That's the first. Secondly, I want you to be a little careful, because even though you have a high responsibility for such programmes, you are not the perpetrator. For example, in Sepolis, about a month ago, it has been a mess with an old ten - year - old, semifinished building, which they are now building to rent, when there are complaints that it has urban problems. And we still don't have a decision on whether the building is okay or not. And this in an area where as you well know - Sepolis, Attica Square - it's a burden. I also asked a question about another building in New Philothei, which is an open structure, and you said that it was not the government's intention to create the area of the structure mentioned, because it does not meet the standards that you set for open structures. At the same time, however, when you sent me this answer, Minister, you signed the HR with which the structure was opening. Keep these in mind, for at one time the Minister’s intentions are lost on the road. I too may, because I know you, not question your intentions, but there are problems in this regard. I now come to another point that I heard you mention because I happened to chair on Friday - I took your papers and saw them - on the NGOs. I see that an application for registration has made seventy-seven - you were right to make the register, it was a shortage - and they are ready to join nineteen. From you I have heard him that the NGOs energized by Greece - in and out of import, the word - are two hundred. The rest of what are they? How do they work? Do they get money? Today I heard you in the Greek you denounced solidaritys and said they were the same ones who last time and before. Today you have to name us who they are. Tell us it's the tweaks. And after you'd seen them a couple of months ago in similar cases, why didn't you resort to the prosecutor forego them? It's not, of course, the Minister's job to do the prosecutor. I heard you today when you made the complaints. I happened to know some faces myself. Is this a political body behind solidarity? Who is this political body? And to avoid misunderstanding and to be more specific, it is not someone who is in Parliament, represented in Parliament. So that wants too much attention. Also, there was a spec for the fact that the Chief of Officer Response didn't enter Moria's hot spot. But neither did you enter Mr Avramopoulos - and rightly so - because there is a reason. So, it was done on public television by some journalists - one lady said she was sick, another one said she was afraid - and she did not come in after the police was set up. It's irrelevant to the question, but I'm saying it, to finally see in there what's there. Because, apart from the guests, there will obviously also be NGOs or solidarity, which, if you and Mr Toskas were to go, we could have had the incidents that we had today, much more if someone from the Opposition.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u15	Mr. Kaklamani, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u16	I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. Regarding the Greek - and I want you to see it - I believe you were not ready today to answer me. However, in October, I had asked a question, not for the hot spots of Greek, but for the delay in refreshing the Greek. I have before me the written reply of the Minister, with the notification of the letter of the CEO of "Greek S.A.", Mr. Spyropoulou, where he says that the programming agreement you have signed with "Greek S.A." as a government has expired on 31-3-2016 - I have it here, Mrs. Spyropoulou's letter - and that despite the successive letters that have repeatedly raised the issue of early release of the space, there is no answer from the Government. So here's a question of whether they're there now in the air. Because it has expired since March, Mrs Spyropoulou's letter says so. But it's October. I do not know whether you have renewed the contract from October until today, and so it is unreasonable. But in October the structure was in the air. If it has been signed, please let me know until it is. You don't have to send me an answer within the House. You're sending her to my office. If not, when is the migration predicted by these people? Leave the refreshment of the Greek. If the contract has expired, you must do something: ‘Or renew it - I do not suggest this to you - or see what will happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u17	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u18	Mr Kaklamani, I will answer you with clarity and courtesy, with which you have asked the questions. For the Greek I reserve, because I'm not prepared. I'll get you the paperwork. I am absolutely convinced - and this is my personal political will - that refugees and immigrants will never be the reason to delay the regeneration work of the Greek. The choices for whom they are recruited, etc. We can't do it under the law. These organisations are also controlled three months after the end of the work under the law of the European Union. This is a regulation that existed before. It wasn't created now. In this sense, you haven't been very politely in his rejoicing position to accuse us of something. We do not give the NGOs a single drachma. NGOs take money from the European Union. They are eight large NGOs, which take as subcontractors here smaller NGOs in Greece. I would like to say that it is not a bit if you see that we have built the register a month and a half a month, '7719'. What we are trying to do - and you know, he wants an education, because now it has not been possible - is to enter a deadline and then anyone who has not been in the register will not be able to work in Greece. First warning will take place at the end of March.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u19	That's an answer to my question, the last thing you said right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u20	Yeah, and I hope we can keep that thing. For the hot spot in Moria, I never accused Mr. Mitsotakis of not coming in.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u21	I didn't say you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u22	I want to tell you this. I think Mr. Mitsotakis has taken advantage of this issue, which is a way that he shouldn't have done. And Mr. Avramopoulos didn't come in. Others came in. Depends. There are no solidaritys in Moria. There was a lot of people and there was the custom, when people enter official, to become little uprisings, "we love Europe", "we love Merkel", "we date Europe" and all that. So our recommendation was this at this stage. Tomorrow it'll probably be another. Yesterday it was probably another. For the Greek, I stated clearly today that there are situations in progress. And whenever it happens, I declare this thing. I'm not a prosecutor, like you said. You'll have to see that. But I thought it was my duty to say that this is the third time falsely said to be becoming a universal hunger strike in the Greek. What happened is that thirty Greek and thirty, forty foreigners - ten over, ten down - banned food from entering the structure. Now in the structure they eat, now the journalists are there. What I said - and I repeat it in the House, not in you, but through you to listen to the Greek people - is that the Greek state has laws. The laws will apply. We have a very long mood - and I am sure of you personally, I have known you for years - as far as we can in the difficulties we have as a state, to grant the rights of these people. But they too must respect our legislation and observe it. That's what we're trying to do. We don't want violence. We will not be subject to violence, however. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Before we move to the next timely question, I would like to inform the House that MP, Mr. Apostolos Veyropoulos, by letter to the President of Parliament, seeks permission from a few days' absence abroad from Tuesday 7-2-2017 until Friday 10-2-2017. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u24	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Next is the third with number 397/27-1-2017, a top-level question by the Deputy of Serres of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.MAR.Michael Jelloni to the Minister of the Interior, concerning measures to be taken for the Subordinated Police Directorate of Serres Prefecture. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for the Interior, Mr Nikolaos Toskas. Here, Mr. Jelloney, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Deputy Minister for Citizen Protection, after four months we are finally discussing a problem that for the Serres Prefecture has become even more acute and is more topical than ever. We are talking about increasing crime in Serres Law and to an excessive extent. And this is a common finding both from the contact I have with my fellow citizens in the Serres Prefecture, but also from the meetings I had with the seven self-government mayors of the Serres Prefecture and the Police Directorate. Minister, Serres Prefecture is the largest prefecture in central Macedonia, with an area of four thousand square kilometres and a population of two hundred thousand with students. And this population is scattered in a hundred ninety villages, along with the settlements. It also has a huge provincial road network, kakisto and dangerous to most of it, and it includes parts of the Serres-Thessaloniki and Egnatia highway. It is bordered with Bulgaria, where the customs office of Promahona is the main northern gateway of entry into the country of vehicles, people and goods from both Balkan countries and Europeans. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The portal for importing all kinds and grades of crime - starting from Serres Prefecture - drugs, smuggling, illegal immigrants. At the same time, in Serres Prefecture, there is the Nigrita Penitentiary, with barporians and terrorists imprisoned. You understand that the needs of the Serres Police Department are increased. Nevertheless, the Serres Police Directorate in relation to border counties, based on population criteria, and bearing in mind what I said about Serres Law, is subordinated. In fact today, compared to the period I first asked my timely question, it is even more subordinated. We are talking about 570 planned posts from 586 and existing executive positions from this establishment plan 540. I am not aware here that since 2012 the Transport Division has been approved, it has not been working. In fact, transfers are carried out by unexperienced staff...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u26	Mr. Jelloney, please complete your prototype. You've already exceeded three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u27	I shall conclude, Mr President. A further thirty places are provided for the Transport Division. I would really like you to answer what you intend to do to serve empty organic positions, to give the citizens of Serres Prefecture the sense of security for their living and their property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr. Jelloney. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u29	Mr President, Mr Jelloney, as I speak, I speak with numbers. I'm going straight to the point. Serres Police Directorate: predicted officers 43, existing 48. Total lieutenants, architects, state guards, police officers: provided 555, existing 539. And because you referred to the municipalities of Nigritas and Heraklion, the figures are as follows: Nigrita Police Department: planned organic positions 29, existing 25. Heraclea Police Department: anticipated organic positions 20, existing 23. Serres Prefecture is one of those prefectures which have the least crime. So that's not the way it is. We do not need to go too far when we ask for extra policing - and apologise for the designation - but we need to look at the numbers. There are seven police deputy directors in the county. There's a very big police force. The small staff deficit is due to the fact that the power of the entire Greek Police is all in deficit due to reduced staff recruitment in previous years, but also to the compulsory dispersion in which we have resorted because of the treatment of migration flows and retirement and withdrawal of personnel. So things are not at all the way you presented them. I can say Serres Prefecture is in a privileged state compared to the rest of the prefectures. There's no particular crime, and I wish it hadn't. The situation, as some cops showed you, is obviously not exactly like that. Nevertheless, positions were announced to cover these small gaps and were covered on 3-8-2016 with the posts of a lieutenant, two extra police posts, etc. Additional placements were also made on the third 10th of November following a call for posts. There is a whole process when the positions are being proclaimed. That's not how we arbitrarily transfer some cops. Mr. Publicis knows about this. Any remaining vacancies shall be taken into account when the transmissions are announced in 2017. That's the real situation, Mr. Jelloney. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Jelloney, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, if you'd like evidence, I'm going to list you with data that I got from the Serres Police Department and also the neighbouring prefectures, so that we can look at them comparatively on the basis of populations as well. I also mentioned the criticality of Serres Prefecture as a border county. There are five hundred seventy organic positions in the law and five hundred forty are covered at the moment. That's what the Police Department and the Police Officers' Union agree, with documents you've been notified on several occasions...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u32	Actually, it's five hundred fifty-five.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u33	...without taking into account, as I said before, the function to be performed and required for the Transport Division, where other thirty organic positions are provided. At the same time, you also announced a new police department in a municipality that has nothing, the Municipality of Emmanuel Papa. In the adjacent Kilkis Prefecture, with half the population of Serres Prefecture, with much less area than Serres Prefecture, the predicted force is sixty-four police officers and the existing force is six hundred forty forty. Is there equality, is there an equivalency towards the Greek citizens of the two counties? Isn't Serres unjust, on his road axis, with seven municipalities versus two, double the population? How can we accept, when you say that there is no increased crime in the county, when the other day in a municipal district was undisturbed in the ELTAs, they took the safe and fortunately fell on the road. We're not in the center of Athens, and they don't get publicity. Do you know that in Serres Prefecture, to inspire the sense of security in the villages, are there protective groups? Do you know that many villages pay private security? I would ask you to treat Serres equally against all the border counties. If some people had a barbas in the Koroni, that's all they have to finish. At least make the distribution of police forces proportional to the population, as well as to the risk of criminal acts, judging the new data produced in each county. This is the demand of my fellow citizens, that there should be a sense of security to all of them equally, as the rest of the country has. They consider that the county is wronged in relation to policing, which in many respects does not exist at all. They consider Serres Prefecture to be subordinate, especially in some municipalities with increased crime, due to the composition of the population, such as the Municipality of Heraklion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr. Jelloney. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u35	I would ask the numbers given to be the official figures rather than the numbers that give trade unionists or others. The whole organic force of the Serre Police Directorate is five hundred fifty-five and the existing one is fifty-thirty-nine. Comparison with different prefectures, like Prefecture Kilkis, should not be done. The Kilkis Prefecture has too many refugee camps and many problems, and if we could, we would strengthen him further. The Serres Prefecture has no such problems, no camps, and no crime, no matter what the individual incidents you have presented. The reorganization of the Greek Police and meeting needs are not only carried out on the basis of population criteria. It's about the rest of the evidence. Scientifically this is the distribution of police forces, which are not endless. It's not because he wants a minister. They're done with studies by the Greek Police and decisions at the service level. Now, for the guard teams, let me not comment on it, because we could say a lot. And I don't know if you're supporting these teams or not. I believe you do not support their existence.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u36	It is self-sufficient, but at least do what you have to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u37	I repeat that the distribution of police forces is done as required. We can't compare Kilkis to Serres Law. We will also strengthen those prefectures that have more need and more crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I will address Mr. Prussakis and Mr. Micho. Mr Panagoulis, who is third in your order of questions - that is, you must precede Mr Panagoulis - and, beforehand, he has gone to the Bureau and asked us to put forward his question, because he has been notified of something urgent, if you agree, and if you allow it. I ask both of them. I have to. I can't force it. If you agree, we should give the floor to Mr. Panagoulis, and then to Mr. Prussakis and Mr. Michos, as was the order.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u39	Yes, I agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u40	From my point of view, no problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u41	You agree. Thank you very much for understanding. The second question under number 8/3-10-2016 by the Independent MEP Mr. Efstathiou (Stathia) Panagoulis to the Minister of the Interior will be discussed, on "storms and chemicals that the Government teaches us what democracy means". You have the floor, Mr. Panagoulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u42	I thank my colleagues firstly, Mr President, for allowing me to speak before the normal order that I should have. Mr President, it has been three and a half months since the sad events of October 3, 2016, when with chemicals it faced the Ministry of Protection of the Citizen, peaceful pensioners and workers of PAME, who wanted, on their way from the Ministry of Labour to the Maximos Mansion, a resolution to the Prime Minister's House on the well-known shameful provisions of the Katrugalos Act, which weakened their pensions once again. The Minister should know, Mr President, that these conquests of workers and pensioners have been built here with long struggles and great sacrifices of the working class and the workers. So they met on October 3, 2016, chemical and preconflicts and knew what democracy means! You must be aware, Minister, that many of these people - older today - were tortured, imprisoned and exiled during the seven-year-old tyranny. Democracy is not at risk from them, nor from the workers' peaceful demonstrations. Who gave orders, Minister? You have come out to tell us that you take the political responsibility of throwing chemicals on workers and over-aged people. I would like to remind you, Mr President, what the person who appears to be the left-wing government, Mrs Tsipras, when he was in the opposition, said: 'The proven and well-founded cooperation of police officers with hoodiers and extremist elements, which also exert violence in the context of peaceful demonstrations, cannot remain uncontrolled'. And he produced not one, but thirty-eight videos and rich photographic material to the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, then denouncing police violence and unreasonable chemical use.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u43	Mr. Panagoulis, please complete. On the other hand, you have a second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u44	I shall conclude my prototype, Mr President. That is what Mr Tsipras said and what the previous governments have done, he is coming to implement. Today, as regards the Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Toska, a title can be awarded to him: 'Minister for the Protection of the Hero of Attica'. I shall return to my denunciation, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u45	Good, Mr. Panagoulis. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u46	Mr President, I am not going to comment on either the title of the question or the other titles that Mr Panagulis has used and which he has repeatedly used in his various interviews for my face. However, in political response, I would like us to consider what the repression was on previous governments and how many times tear gas has been used in previous years over previous governments. That's what happened a thousand times and I've got the numbers here. From there on, reference is made to a specific incident - in fact unfortunate - with the pensioners, which I have referred to on several occasions. That is why the use of chemicals against workers and pensioners has been banned from there. But, from there on, the repetition of an incident and the constant reference to it refer somewhere else. Of course, I do not know, but I do not think that the JRC or PAME expects Mr Panagoulis to defend his positions, because I think these things have been cleared up in both Parliament and outside Parliament. We all know how difficult it is to maintain public order, how much balance is needed on a stretched rope and how much it needs to be judged in the specific circumstances, but also as a whole, by examining the entire supply of police officers to the daily practice that is being applied, in the daily results, in the treatment of drugs, in the treatment of fraud, in the treatment of robbery, and in the lack of repression. Although problems and crime will never be nullified, the enormous effort that is being made should not be zeroed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Panagoulis, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u48	Mr President, the Minister has tried - and I will explain why he is doing so - to distort my words. Mr Minister, neither the JRC needs nor I have defended the JRC nor the WEU. I'm defending working people. This practice continued a few days ago with the cleaners, firefighters and a whole lot of other social classes. I don't understand why you're ejecting so easily tear gas. Perhaps because with so many years in the army, Minister, you have never been involved in a demonstration in your life? Or do you think that with the CV that you shared before the elections, which you must be ashamed of, that you are anti-Russian, that...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u49	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u50	Sit down, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Panagoulis, I would ask you to withdraw.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u52	When in 1971, who was a Juda...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u53	Mr. Panagoulis, the Bureau is addressing you. I would ask you to withdraw the expression you have just said to the Minister, that you must be ashamed of yourself, etc. You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u54	I withdraw that expression. But the Minister cannot present us with a CV and say he was a resistance when he was introduced in 1971 to the Military School of Hope. What did you have to do with it, Mr Toska, with all these colleagues who fought for this Chamber to work? What did you have to do with General Oropulos, with Spyros Mustaklis, with Tasos Monu, with George Panagoulis, with Michael Vardanis, with Angel Spiritual, with Bard Vardinoyannis and dozens of other officers who gave their lives and spilled their blood? Mr President, the Minister is forging forgery during that heroic period 1967-1974, when the Greek people assembled - and I do not blame you for entering the School of Hope...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u55	Let him go, Mr. President! Let him go!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u56	Mr. Panagoulis, I'm sorry, but your question had a specific subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u57	Yeah, it's specific.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u58	You are now putting personal questions to the Minister, saying things, all that has been said. I think we have escaped the subject of discussing this question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u59	Mr President, I have not lied.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u60	I won't judge whether it's a lie or not. I have to keep the procedure under the Rules of Procedure, to operate during the debate on topical and urgent questions. You know that very well, like all those present in the Chamber, that topical questions have a specific subject matter. These are questions which Members are addressing to the relevant ministers and we are asking for a reply and we are staying on that. You're now making a full reference to names, and so on. Let us avoid this kind of controversy. To be a political confrontation, to be confronted on the basis of arguments, I understand that, Mr Panagoulis, but not on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u61	It's not personal, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u62	But you refer to persons and events that are out of question. I'm focusing on this. Allow me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u63	I'm closing up to make it easier for you, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u64	I'll give you some more time, as I owe you, and you have the right. Finish it, please. They also expect the Members who gave you the order with patience.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u65	I should like to close, Mr President, by pointing out that Mr Toskas' attitude shows that every day. He showed it to retired people, on that route on October 3rd, he showed it to the cleaners the other day, showed it to other social classes and charges, when he puts it in front of men of MATs and throwing chemicals or pushing the protesters in an unacceptable way. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u66	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u67	Mr President, I think I have answered the question. I will not, of course, answer the slanders, the lies, the insults of Mr. Panagoulis. I am proud to have served my homeland for thirty-five years, most in extreme areas, and I am proud to have served democracy as well. If facts are distorted by Mr Panagulis, I will not return his words to him or his other insults. From there on, of course, everyone is judged in this area, because I was not a permanent politician for thirty-five years. I have been a member of Parliament for thirty-five years and I feel, of course, honoured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u69	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u70	No, Mr. Panagoulis, you don't have the floor. I'm sorry, but there's no tritology.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u71	I would like the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u72	No, there's no staff, please now! I'm so sorry!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u73	Mr President, I would like to say a phrase.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u74	No, look! I beg your pardon, Mr Panagoulis, you must also respect the colleagues who have given you their order who are patiently waiting. No staff, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u75	I'm not a politician. Mr. Toskas is a forgery of history and I deliver him to the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u76	We continue with the sixth under the number 319/9-1-2017 topical question of the second question of the Member of Parliament Evros of the New Democracy. Anastasios Purchasios Publisher to the Minister of the Interior, on the degradation - abolition of the Tychros Border Guard Division in the Prefecture of Evros. Mr. Treasury, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, for two years I have watched for many reasons the drawing on the map of the new structure of the Greek Police Corps, so that its structure can be buttoned in the administrative system of the country, under the cultural law. It had been decided on every town, except for Attica, Thessaloniki and Patras, a Police Department. Especially for Evros, it was decided to abolish the Police Departments of Ferra Alexandroupolis, Tychuros Soufliu and Righteous Orestiad, in order to stay only the Police Departments of Orestiad, Soufli, Dymothi, Alexandroupolis and Samothraki. Now we are faced with a second wrong choice of your choice, to downgrade and effectively abolish the Tychure Border Guard Division, including it as an immigration management office within the Police Department. In other words, a service of about a hundred people, who have a national duty to guard the borders, join a police department of ten. The Border Guard Department has been working relentlessly for sixteen years and has contributed decisively to dealing with cross-border crime with many successes, in fact, in its assets, creating a sense of security for residents. And I think that his executives really face problems under adverse weather conditions and not just. On a planned visit to the offices of police leadership and the Secretary General of your Ministry, it seemed that you accepted the consolidation rather than the abolition of the Tychro Police Department with that of the Border Guard at the building offered by the Mayor Souflio. So, on the basis of the above, you're asking: On what basis are you going to abolish - downgrade the Tychure Border Guard Division with the promoted presidential decree? Do you feel that, with the logic of removing border guards, you will be faced with increased migration flows in Evros? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr. Treasury. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Prussakis, you as former Chief of ELAS I do not think you should have asked this question, because you had been given enough explanations from the Secretary-General of the Public Order when you visited him, and then it was said that the abolition of the Police Department and the residence of the Border Guard Department was originally planned. But you asked - rightly maybe - for the Police Department to remain, because the people of Tychero had to go twenty kilometers away to serve. This has been accepted by our services, not to abolish the Tychero Police Department. But the Border Guard Department was joined under the Tychure Police Department, in order to reduce administrations, service officers, guards and everything, that is to say, there must be an economy in staff, without reducing efficiency, as no staff is removed, the same staff remains. And I think we will all agree that there is better efficiency when we have fewer administrations and more people, more police officers, that is, in border fields or on the road. That is how we achieve better results. And we're talking about an area that, let me tell you, I've probably lived a lot longer - although you're from Evros - since with my unit, I was responsible for this part of Evros in lucky. Therefore, our entire pursuit was to achieve better results with fewer administrations and maintaining the same staff. None of these cops are leaving this area. It's just being subjected to one force within the other for the sake of power economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u80	Here you are, Mr Prussakis, you have the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u81	Minister, you speak to a man who has grown up in the river, you speak to a man who has grown up in a corps who has devoted a life of thirty-five years to it. And today you're taking care of me! But I would like to tell you that you are unparalleled. I have proposed that you set up the services in a building, which the local Municipality of Souflios grants, because this ensures a uniform view, a single voice mailer and possibly a single service officer at night. Two sections, police station and border guards, it's the same structure. You're downing it. Converts the 100-person border guard at the Office - with the "fuck" capital - that is, the last tier of a service. It's not possible for a hundred people to join the ten. It's simple logic! I think that you are on the wrong track and I will ask you to rethink this issue, because you have a national responsibility to guard the land borders and you cannot create achilles heel on our land borders. I would say to you - and I would suggest to you - that if I were in your place, I would have established a Department of Transboundary Crime and Drugs in northern Evros based in Orestia and a similar in southern Evros as far as Alexandroupolis is concerned. Also, above the border guards for the northern Evros, an operational sub-address with three individuals and a police assistant, who will coordinate the Orestiada border guards and border guards and a southern one. This is the right structure for you to be able to deal with the problems, for which tomorrow, at a given moment, the Minister for Migration Policy, may open a safe way across our land borders. And you realize - this was planned in September 2015 - that we would see images of infinitely good in our region. [[At this point, the Honourable Member's speech bell is ringing.]] Secondly, since we are discussing it, I would like to tell you that by the speaker, as Head of the Greek Police, it was planned to establish migration management parts in the five islands of the north-eastern and south-eastern Aegean, because we were unfortunately seeing migratory flows coming. And we had planned to do, as I said before, cross-border guards of 50 people in Mytilini, Chios, Samos, Kos and Rhodes, because the citizens of Greece, who live there, have the need for state protection and security. And not all of these agencies can deal with the issue of identified foreigners, namely, war refugees and foreign economic migrants. Look at the topics, do not create vulnerabilities on our borders. You have a debt to the state. You have a debt towards the Greek people to guard the country. You have sworn home and I think that's your obligation. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr. Prussakis. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u83	Despite the fact that, Mr President, I appreciate the knowledge of Mr Prussakis - a woe, a chief of police was - something we both know from common sense and from structures. Because I cannot understand - of course, this House will not become an operational staff - how the Right, which is seventy miles away from Orestiad, can be controlled. Therefore, structures need to be adapted to the geography of this prefecture, which we know with Mr Düsseldorf, as well as with the closeness of Turkey, but also geographical specialities. We are precisely trying to tackle the problems of illegal immigration in the best way. And please, no expressions suggesting that one who has done this kind of structure has a better national perception than the other. Nor have there ever been such scenarios - Mr Moussalas can complete - for safe passage corridors or I don't know what else. I do not think this House should be concerned with the fact that the two administrations have become one and one police officer will no longer have an administration, but they will all fall under - they are even more flexible - and we are dealing here with such organisational issues. Our proposal and practice, which we are implementing, are flexible ways, in more economic terms, to achieve the best results in dealing with the problems of this region. The other proposals can also be considered, I have no objections, but no peaks or scenarios of another kind, which have nothing to do with reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with the ninth with the ninth number 352/16-1-2017 topical question by Evia MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaou Michou to the Minister of Interior, on "processing thorough research into the extensive fires in Chios, Evia and Thassos". Here, Mr. Micho, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. It's only topical, but it's all right. Even now, some answers would be good. Minister, mass fires occurred last summer on the island of Chios, Evia, Thassos, and lately on Lero. The strong winds have increased the intensity and danger of fire, while the inhabitants, mostly in Chios, have made huge efforts. The Fire Corps, as always, has fought enormously on all fronts, but unfortunately, whole masturbation crops have disappeared. In Evia, on the other hand, disasters were huge. They say twenty thousand acres, but the locals talk about nearly forty thousand acres. Now, the exact number for how many thousands of acres have been burned, it would be good to know that as well. And there are rumors of human beings. In Thassos the fiery throat destroyed almost the whole island. Thassos is a small island, waiting for tourism in the summer and the forests it has, to have some people left so that the local population can make some money in the summer and survive the winter. The island burned down. In view of the frequent effects of extensive fires in our country, therefore, it is inconsistent to conclude that the causes are not, of course, but may also be, a question of a concerted effort in the context of the promotion of business and economic interests. We have seen it too many times in the past, as we saw in Pendeli many years ago, in Druffy, as we saw in Parnitha, in the Peloponnese, in many regions and even multinational companies, who came in and robbed the destroyed, devastated areas. Noteworthy is the fact that Mayor Leros talks about testimony that speaks of arson, while island citizens reported that they saw a group of foreigners where the fire broke out. I ask you: Firstly, have you carried out a detailed audit, a thorough investigation to enlighten the scene of the multiple and parallel fires that endangered and human lives, destroyed property and degraded the ecosystem of the country again? Secondly, will compensation be paid to the affected and will the necessary studies be carried out to carry out flooding projects? And when we say compensation is paid, not as in the Peloponnese, when the major fires, which all Roma ran, from all over Greece and received compensation and the locals stayed out very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u86	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would remind you that last summer with the fires that occurred at a time when the forests were very dry, it had to rain too long, there was a great battle. You recognize it, and I think the Fire Corps has given a huge fight, as you say. I would like to refer specifically to the Evia Lake fire, where everything was disposed of in terms of fire-fighting instruments with a fully coordinated operation. We have received congratulations from both the mayor of the Evia Lake and the other actors and inhabitants of the region, because we have indeed tried the past of the media and the lack of means to cover it with better coordination and better organisation, and that has succeeded. Especially in the fire of Evia Lake, during a summer where - if I remember well - the seventy-five days of the three months had winds larger than five Bowls, we are struggling to wipe fires with fires that most - as everyone knows here - are in the 1970s. So we brought fire-fighting vehicles from all over Greece, from all over Greece, and brought fire-fighting aircraft, at risk - if you want - because if there were any major fires in those days, we would have a huge problem. However, we have all weighed on the great problem in the Evia Lake, as we did in Chios, as we did in Thassos, because without risk you cannot deal with the big problems. And there are cases where we suspect arsons, as there are cases where fires were from random, natural causes, such as lightning in Thassos, where without rain - we have entered a cycle of climate changes with strange phenomena - we had three lightning fires, as the firemen say, "dry lightning" or rainless fires. We have one of those things we didn't know in the past few years. But we should not fall into the mistake that in all these phenomena from behind there is a conspiracy, there are invisible powers or there are arsonists who are carados at all times. We owe ourselves as a state, and I think we went well last year, which was a great disaster, but it was the best thing to do with these fires. In such a context, we are preparing for the summer to come so that we can cope in the best way, because I do not think we have any phenomena. We are moving in this direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u88	Mr. Micho, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u89	Thank you. For that particular fire you said, I know that many weather phenomena have changed, there was no rain, thunderstorms fell. I spoke about the specific case of Leros, which people said, and the mayor said it. I say to you that in Evia - I do not say it, the locals say it - there are rumours about the region on the one hand that it wants to pass a pipeline, so it makes it easier for the big companies to do that, because it is much less the cost. I'm telling you what it sounds like over there. I'm not making it out of my mind to God! On the other hand, they were also heard of wind turbines and there is a political person behind them. Without evidence, I can't mention any names, of course. I'm telling you what it sounds. It also sounded very strongly that in Farakla - that is where the fire started - there was also a man who had videos from there. Locals from Farakla say that. I was three days on that fire at Lake, from morning to dawn and again, going back to my village and coming back. I saw the disaster. There it was heard by a lot of people and so-called - because I spoke with a lot of people - that the head of the fire in the area, Mr. Psarros - I do not know the man, to God, is not his complaint, they are others - who know the region very well, asked for cars, machinery, water supplies to go in front of the Murcia region, in the Damaria, to stop the fire and, as they started, they were ordered to return with the seasonal firemen back to Farakla, at the point where the fire began. They all said that if this had taken over entirely, without receiving orders from above, the work, the fire would have stopped. I tell you what the inhabitants of people who have lived in the area who know her and are there by young children. And some firefighting season again, who have given their lives to too many fires in this region, said the same thing. I would like to make a little comment. If the seasonal firefighters, the old people, were not there to help the Fire Corps, because they know the region very well, we might have much more problems. It is also the fire in Chios - I shall refer to other Aegean islands - where Turkey is across. In the previous government, because I happen to be in the Committee on the Environment, I mentioned with some information about SMIT people, who, apart from weapons and drugs that bring home, have played the role of putting fires on islands in forest areas. Mrs Arginopoulou admitted that. He said, we know, yes, we have foreign agents. No agent's ever been caught. Those who have been caught have been released. No one has eaten a prison, a 'coarse kabana'. They burn property, burn people. Foreign agents must be imprisoned equally in our homeland. Their role is bad, they don't come for good. That is what the word 'foreign agent' says. I want you to tell me what you will do and for that, because summer comes, problems with Turkey exist. Will this continue? And if someone gets caught, will you continue the same thing that the previous governments have done, that is, you'll catch them and leave them or move on and do something? Let's see at last that one of us entered our homeland, came to do damage, but it can at least be convicted. On the other hand, you have undertaken - I agree, I know very well, I have spoken with too many firefighters - the fire brigade, as the previous governments have left it, without cars or very few, but they are destroyed. In my area, in Evia, at least I know a lot of things, planes don't exist. It's too old. Shouldn't they be cut off at least somewhere - when I say cut off, I mean from financing the banks, a recapitalisation of the banks - a small amount from the moment we know? The banks took huge sums. They've filled pockets, they've filled offshore companies, they've got, they've got. Shouldn't new planes be coming? You should not have taken another world to work - in your favour would it be, why would unemployment be reduced, would you appoint them - to protect our forests? And why since you know what's going on, don't you make an army in these areas? In areas where you know there's a problem, pulling out an army. There are paths to be guarded, there are too many. This is no longer a situation. Also, what are you going to do about reafforestations? Are there going to be reafforestations? And a personal proposal. It's my proposal, it's not my party, it's personal. You have the hot spots and they're sitting in Evia, Ritson. Why don't you take them, take them to nature too? From ten trees to plant each, the reafforestation took place. Don't throw away the food, it won't be wasted. Because whoever works is hungry. Anyone who doesn't work thinks about other things. Create ghettos, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u90	Come on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u91	I repeat, as far as the causes of the fires are concerned, which are being investigated by the fire - they are doing the interrogation and taking into account all the factors, but also the testimony of the inhabitants and others, who have been close to the fire - there are cases where we suspect of arson. Last year there were some arrests of some arsonists, and from there on it is a matter of justice. We must not, however, create conspiracy and imaginary scenarios around any arson. We know well that in every region, where a natural disaster occurs, scripts are started and myths are made, which have nothing to do with reality. I have heard a lot about the Pharacles region as well as other scripts, which I am sure you have heard, for crops and for many others. But we need to talk about evidence, and that's why I'm stopping here. In most cases residents have helped. These days we have a meeting with the Ministry of National Defence, just to see how there will be better surveillance with hikers or on-board sections, but also how there will be more active participation with flying means of the Armed Forces. Of course, surveillance is intended to monitor various individuals and in remote areas, which are likely to enter forested areas for other reasons. At the same time, we, with a proposal from our Ministry these days, are trying to create some understanding, cooperation, if possible, assistance from the European Union for the countries of the South - and this is an initiative, which will be developed in the next few days - because each state cannot face natural disasters alone and much more countries like ours, like Spain, like Cyprus, because of the natural environment they have. With such a grid we are trying to deal with situations and we will certainly need support from local players and local government. Because the state alone, coming from far away, cannot deal with aircraft and helicopter natural disasters throughout the country. It's not happening anywhere in the world. The regions, the municipalities and the state are being strengthened as a reserve, in addition to dealing with the major disasters and not with the five burning trees. We are moving in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We enter the tenth under number 411/30-1-2017 an up-to-date question from the MP Argolida of the New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Andrianos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the need for direct compensation for olive growers and producers of mandarin's variety 'clementine' in Argolida. The Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr. Apostleu, will answer. Mr. Andriane, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, the problems of the agricultural sector and agricultural production are many. After all, that is why there are protests and reactions from farmers. You said, in fact, that many of them are fair. But here I would like to remind you of what our people say, namely, 'what you sow, you reap.' Because really, when you're in a car cart, when you're wearing everything to everyone and raising everyone's expectations, it sometimes happens that you have the country's sunshine in your hands and of course you're in front of the specific events that you are today. As you know, Minister, and as I pointed out in my previous questions, both the olive growers and the clementine producers in Argolida, as in other regions of the country, have suffered considerable damage this year. In olives the damage is due to the minimum to zero fruiting due to weather conditions and, of course, to the torch. As the geoponors of the Department of Quality and Phytosanitary Protection point to, the damage to Argolida reaches 70%, i.e. an unprecedented loss for the past twenty years. There are producers who haven't made any oil to eat this year. As far as the producers of clementine mandarin are concerned, the areas in Argold have suffered extensive waterfall due to the continuous rainfall on 26, 27, 28, 29 and 30 November. In fact, the study report from the Directorate for Rural Economy and Veterinary Argolida mentions a total destruction of production, with dramatic consequences in particular in areas where the cultivation of clementine is the main or only source of income of the producers, which is why it concludes that the sprinkling effect should be included in the risks covered by the ELGA, as is the case in the respective list of products and risks covered by the Cyprus Agricultural Insurance Organisation. It points out that the ELGA Plant Production Insurance Regulation provides for compensation from a rainfall which, due to intensity and height or length of time, as was the case in this case, causes damage to plant production. Therefore, given that farmers pay the premiums to ELGA and are invited under conditions of up to zero income for this year, as I said, to normally serve the other high obligations, but also to cover the costs of the new growing season, it becomes imperative both that the affected producers of clementine and oil producers be compensated and that the list of risks covered by the ELGA be changed immediately to include this type of damage which is obviously the cause of climate change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr. Andriano. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u95	Mr Colleagues, because in your introduction you have been concerned about the mobilisations, I will tell you that we are of course having a calm attitude to this year's mobilisation. The communication channels are open. We have answers. It is simply what we are waiting for that is those who are leading the mobilisations at last to present their demands and, above all, to justify them. It is in this process that it will be more beneficial if we discuss with them, rather than through remote and remote window procedures. I now come to your questions about compensation in Argolida for damages we had last year. I agree that we really had unprecedented weather phenomena. As throughout Greece, it was a difficult year in Argolida in 2016. Unfortunately, the weather phenomena continued and in 2017. Since, however, you have referred to specific damages, we can see how we can cover these damages. We're starting first from ELGA. As you know, ELGA is a fund that operates in the direction of recompense alone, which means either the damage must be secure, or the producer must be informed of it. According to the ELGA Regulation, if we have damages to olive crops caused by damage from the torch, they are not covered in insurance because the torch is effectively treated with the sprays, by procedures carried out by the regional units. We simply provide the corresponding funds, which of course come from the Ministry of the Interior. The report we have in this regional section is that the necessary sprays were correctly sampled and that there was no problem. You put the issue of incarinity, of bad fruitage, which may, of course, be due to a combination of many unfavourable conditions. This is not a cause that can be covered, because it is not part of the insurance risks of the ELGA. You are also referring to damage to mandarin crops from rainfall. Indeed, there were rainfall in those days, but the labels carried out did not find any rain damage. There have been damages later, which are a secondary effect, after rain, and this, in accordance with the relevant Regulation, is again something that is not covered. Therefore, according to the current institutional framework in terms of ELGA, we have no damage coverage. In my dentistry, however, I will tell you what can be done and what an effort we will make to cover at least part of the damage that I have mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Adriane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. I look forward to listening to your second-guess, because that is where we will hear how we can help these people, the producers of olive cultivation and clementine, how they can be compensated. Indeed, Minister, as you admit, the situation is hopeless, and that is why you are going to have what you are proposing, what we will hear about having a practical impact, because producers, farmers, as I said, are being called upon to cover the costs of the new growing season, which they do not have to pay, to pay the insurance contributions, which they will not be able to do once they have no production. Also, to pay the premiums for the new production period - which they do not have to pay - to ELGA for the next period. At the cost of production too high, as you know, and with farmland at 24% VAT, how can these farmers cope with the existing problems? How will they live their families? I really expect you to listen with interest to your secondaryity because, as you said before, you will tell us how to deal with these problems and how to strengthen those farmers who have been affected. You also know the problem in Argolida with water very well. Some positive steps have been taken on the issue of the Anavalus to Epidaurus. The contract with the contractor has already been signed. They're delaying the works from Koutsopodi, Fichtia, Mycenaeans, Mideas. You need to see this, speed up procedures. Of course, you should see, as you have committed here in plenary to my previous question, the question of Ermionidas, because the incarnation in this part has a direct bearing on water. If there is no water in this part of Argolida there will be a huge problem in primary production. The auction issues have been ready since 2014. You've said it's in the ongoing plays. You said that you believed that at the beginning of the year there would be no problem and that the tender procedure would proceed. So I expect you, Minister, to listen to your second-guess and your answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr. Andriano. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u99	We have said that in terms of ELGA these damages cannot be covered. Incapacitation, bad fruitage can be part of a state aid programme. It's what we call PSA. It's known in the rural area. In order for the beneficiaries of this aid to benefit, firstly, the production of the year of damage must have been damaged by a type of product, by cultivation, i.e. at regional level of at least 30% or more. This 30% relates to the yields of previous years, as collected through the statistics of the competent services, of the AMOs. Secondly, it must also be proved scientifically by a committee designated by the Ministry of Rural Development that the loss of production is the result of a specific adverse weather treaty, which must of course also be confirmed by the relevant meteorological bulletins in this period. Finally, the cost of compensation for these losses must have been authorised by the Ministry of Finance, i.e. financially possible. Because in this case, what we can, as an ASEAN, give as a whole this year - because it requires the approval of the European Commission - is around EUR 17 million, you realise that in these damages that the year has already started, or which had last year, there is a fear that the ASEAN will be much more than the possibility that we have. So what's actually left of us? There is something about which an entire debate is currently taking place at European Union level, that is to say, this kind of phenomena to be integrated into the impact of agricultural production on climate change. It is a debate that is under way. They do not think that the decisions in the European Commission are taken from one day to the next. So there we will insist - after all, we are one of the first to raise these issues - on what time horizon I cannot tell you - that was the case for the dairy sector last year, where there was an extraordinary budget to strengthen it, there was also in the case of incarpia, which is a characteristic phenomenon in all the countries and especially the southern of the Mediterranean. But there is another issue that we need to deal with. We need to see something we've decided on. There is a need to have more secure risks in ELGA. That is why, following a decision by a scientific committee we have set up, we are now drawing up a study which shows us that there are too many safe risks to be incorporated into the ELGA. You realise that this of course presupposes corresponding insurance cover. A study will be carried out on changing the organisation so that it can actually meet the needs of agricultural production today and be an insurer operating in the sense of recompense, having as the main feature social solidarity and, of course, above all, this wider public character. As far as the issue you raised about the waters is concerned, there is indeed a problem. We're committed to the Rider, to the Hermionidas. In addition to these projects that have gone and in the new PAA, we in the first quarter will publish the measure concerning land improvements. And because it is a mature project we believe it will be there to be able to move forward.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with the eleventh question under number 358/17-1-2017 of the Second Cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece.Emanouil Synhronakis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, concerning measures to be taken on the disasters in agricultural crops in areas of Crete due to snowfall and ice. You have the floor, Mr Synthraki, for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, farmers throughout the country have suffered snow and ice damage. The same happened in the region of Crete, and indeed in livestock and production. They concern olive groves in all regional units of Crete due to the breaking of trees from the weight of the snow and partial damage to the fruit, hundreds of acres of vineyards, table grapes protected by anti-hail nets, outdoors and greenhouse crops in vegetables, citrus fruits and avocados in Chania, potatoes, refreshed, seasonal vegetables and cereals in various areas of the island and finally in ovine and caprine farming in mountain areas such as Anogia and Sfakia. Of course, the losses here are even bigger. It's not just about livestock. It is also about milk production and reproduction. It should be noted that the milk production per animal has fallen by up to 60%. Of course, if we want to talk seriously about the problem in all its dimensions, you will know that livestock is destroyed, animals die either there is snow or there is no snow, and that is because of hunger, because animals are not fed because of the high cost of feed. Of course, we are asking you about the recent snow damage, while the 2016 damage assessments have not been completed, and of course the affected have not been paid, although these disasters - both last year and this year's - are hitting small and medium-sized farmers more seriously. They started last spring with the frost, with the hails, windstorms, heaters, poor wretching, fires, we had the problem of poor turbulence and others. The ELGA, for which farmers pay high premiums, claims to be an excuse - is invoked by the government, in essence - in other words, the multi-day abstention of the agricultural assessors from their duties, who, of course, rightly claim the costs of their movement, which they are entitled to, since you have already implemented the "cutter" in the context of the general cuts in government expenditure relating to services necessary to the people. But where the compensation has been estimated, it is 'fly', while it is unknown whether and when it will be given and what percentage. I ask you, and I would like you to answer frankly, Mr Minister: will farmers for the damage of 2016 be paid to 100% of the estimated damage and to what is foreseen by ELGA or 80% of the damage? You will respond honestly to this. And if not, why not 100% of the estimated damage? The government presses on this anachronistic regulation of the ELGA, as you said in the previous debate. And we ask you directly - and I conclude, Mr President: what are the measures taken to date by the Ministry for the prompt recording of the losses caused by snowfall and frost? When will they be completed? You announced twenty days ago that extra staff will be recruited for assessments. You haven't hired them yet. Apart from being temporary and not permanent staff, they will also be forced to pay for their journeys or to send them by buses. The big question remains: Will you bypass any bureaucratic obstacles that the European Union puts so that they are immediately compensated by the state budget to 100% of the vegetable and livestock capital, facilities and lost production? Finally, many farmers did not have time to make statements on the damage, either because in the initial phase in some cases, although the procedure for declarations had been announced, was not implemented by the competent authorities, because, as they said, they had not been given a mandate, or because of the phenomenon, of course, some municipalities did not give an extension and some other municipalities did not give an extension. And of course, you are asking whether you will directly support farmers in order to be able to meet the additional feed needs that the extreme weather has imposed. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u102	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u103	Mr President, it is true that because of the extreme weather phenomena that occurred in the previous period, we have had these damages that you described in many agricultural farming units in Crete. We are now in the process of finding out and assessing the real dimensions of the problem. You know that, and you said we've had two basic problems. One was the lack of staff. And the second was the problem, which lasted for many days, of the lack of time for the assessors to reach the blocked units, which had suffered the damage, because access was extremely difficult. However, these two serious problems have been tackled. The first, as far as the recruitment of temporary staff is concerned, is a process to be completed. We'll have two hundred geotechnics, one hundred seventy geoponists and thirty veterinarians. It's a matter of a few days. It's some procedures that no matter how much you want to confuse them, if you want to keep some worthyness and somewhere to serve what you want, there must be a year. The other part, of course, is the essential help offered to us by the municipalities and regional units, which has helped us very much to get close. As you know, the coverage of the ELGA losses will only be provided if the specific activities have been secured and when farmers are informed of the insurance situation. Where there is infrastructure damage, what I said in my previous reply also applies, that we will see it through the well-known ASEAN. However, we are really exploring all possibilities and because in particular for sheep and goat farmers there is a loss of income and of course they have increased input costs due to exclusion, I mean for buying feed, etc., to see in these cases some targeted aid. In particular, for the damage caused by the snowfalls that occurred at the end of December 2016 and the authorities of Genoa in crops, olives ungulates, citrus fruits, vegetables, avocados, in all of these, the necessary labels were made by valuers, by ELGA services, announcements were made and submitted about 4,000 declarations of damage by producers. The work of individualized assessments is under way. We will give priority to sensitive activities, especially for Crete where horticultural products are very important and when the process is completed we will proceed with compensation. I just want to tell you that in the past few years these allowances have reached twelve to thirteen months. We have already reached about the middle of this year and you realise that it definitely needs - and it has been - a great effort. In addition, we had damage to livestock as well. We have 370 statements and estimates will be completed and compensation paid. Now, as far as the remaining damage is concerned, we will draw up the relevant file of the MAGPs and if the conditions allow us to do so both in terms of a decision of the European Commission and in terms of the state budget, the corresponding aid will be paid as quickly as possible to the farmers who have suffered the damage.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I would say that if there were no government's first life, one could have been reassured and said, yes, the government would immediately proceed to the compensation. I also raised the question of why the 2016 process has not been completed, but you have passed this and went to the last damage. And you said that they would be compensated immediately. Farmers, Mr Minister, are facing very great difficulties and losses in their income, and this is the result of the common agricultural policy, that is, of the barbaric policy which your own government is implementing and which has forced farmers to be on the road and to fight with dignity, with pride, to claim that they can stay in their land, in their field, in order to live their families. The farmers themselves are asking themselves, and of course the whole world is asking themselves: But well, this ELGA we are paying for, we are paying him, and many of us are not paying the premiums, and why are they not paying them, but why is ELGA still not injurious, ELGA having stocks, he has wastes and many of these abundances you are not using to compensate producers - why does he not compensate? Why has this year's indemnity not been compensated? Why was systematic homicide while you continue to hold the corresponding amount through grinding? Why does it take five years to give compensation for the end of 2011? Why are small and medium-sized producers even discriminated against, depending on whether or not they have incomes other than agricultural incomes? Why while disasters in installations such as greenhouses or linear vineyard supports fall under the PSEA, are no compensation ever paid? All of these together cumulatively add to the OGA pharmacopoeia, to the carpets, to HOPIA, to the unstable cost of production, to the new reinsurance and tax measures applied from 1st of the year, to the low producer prices, to the continuously reduced subsidies. Unfortunately, Minister, you have, consciously now, converted ELGA into a state-guaranteed mechanism of hard carving and cutting off by not compensating the affected ones, with the threshold of the minimum extent of destruction at 20% of all production. Of course - and rightly so - farmers are on the way. And it's one of their demands. You did not answer us, of course, the question I asked you - apart from all others - if what seems to be the case is that farmers will not compensate for 2016 at 100% of this estimated loss, but at 80%. What about the remaining 20%? We want you to answer us very specifically. Minister, let's not hide behind our finger. Be honest with the farmers who are currently wintering. We must be honest, because the government is lying - and, indeed, it is lying - to farmers. Once you present them as tax frauds, you sometimes consider them to be favoured against other social groups, the unemployed, etc. There is also an attempt to slander their struggle by reviving this social automation that we have experienced recently with seafarers. Eventually, however, the real stimulus of all these problems is the government itself, the European Union, its policy, the slandering of this government.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u106	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u107	Therefore, the aim of this government - to conclude, Mr President - is through this hard anti-agricultural policy to throw the vast majority of small and medium-sized producers away so that you can deliver all of them to the commercial industrialists and cartels and take the products of the producers a short time. This is also apparent from the register of main-professional farmers and from the cooperative laws. So we come back and tell you that the farmers' demands are very specific and you know them. And if you said before that you hadn't told us their requests. The demands are as follows: Directly estimate of damages, compensate 100%, ELGA becoming a state-funded body, plus all other requests put forward by farmers and struggling with the farm blocks. That's why we stand by the poor man, the middle farmer, and tell him that if he doesn't collide with this policy, he'll definitely take them out, displace them. And there is no choice but to take the case into their hands, conflict, overthrow these policies and follow another development path that will benefit small and medium-sized farmers as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u108	Mr Evangelos Apostolos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u109	Mr President, you should really praise us, because in 2016 we did not have the institutional obligation to give 80% of ELGA's receipts in the year, but we exceeded 100% and reached 110% -120%. How did you get here and get out that in 2017 we will be going back to 80% when we in 2016 showed this effectiveness? It's your misgivings, your thoughts, and it doesn't respond at all, but at all what we've planned. Secondly, you said in your speech, in your speech, in your dentistry that it was this barbaric policy of the European Union. At the same time you said that the problems were caused by reduced aid. Clear it up. This must be made clear in the rural area. Do you want, yes or no, the EUR 3.5 billion, which enters the rural area? Today - I repeat today - is it to the survival of the rural area to be deprived of more than 55% of its income from Community resources? If you want this to happen, we tell you we don't want it. Because today, as ever, these resources are necessary for the rural area, when the rest of society experiences much worse situations. So we make this clear, because you're putting in what ELGA pays compensation through state aid. Haven't you heard the great packages of Hatzigakis, the great fines, the countings, the recoveries? This has been the case before, and today we are all called upon to do so, and farmers are also invited to pay back this money. How do you throw this away when you know that the ELGA works reciprocatingly? That's what the regulation says now. At the same time there is a European Commission. In 2008, when Hatzigakis package was given, farmers were in trouble, they were damaged. However, it was given without the approval of the European Commission. That is why we are running today and we are not coming to deal with these problems. So please make it clear to the farmers that if they want to take advantage of these resources within the framework of the European path, there is no other way than the one we follow in this case. If you want anything else, then say it clearly, to find themselves in a situation that certainly has nothing to do with today's reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u110	We continue with the twelfth under number 351/16-1-2017, a topical question by the Member of the Messinia of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Dimitrios Koukoutsis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the abolition of the Kalamata Olive PDO. Mr. Koukoutsi has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you know, Greek enterprises in the olive oil and table olive sector in the world market are faced with colossals. It is true that, against them, they have to face a nuclear arsenal, while the medium and small businesses in Greece, which are engaged in this sector, are fighting with spears and bows. It is a competition that requires strategic and tactical plans for a national policy to promote our agricultural products and foodstuffs, based on quality, innovation, credibility and, above all, infrastructure and resources aimed at exploiting the potential of small and medium-sized enterprises in international markets, which are today the Greek reality. Of course, since the date of my application for this timely question, some things have changed since 21 December. Indeed, some important changes have come to the fore. However, in view of the lack of such a national policy - which we must also discuss - we understand that it is easier than to contribute to the creation of this policy, to recourse to easy solutions. What do we call 'easy solutions'? We call falsifications, we call imitations, the illegal use of names. We must all understand that the essential element of a protected designation of origin, a PDO, is the link between the reputation of the final product and the processed product with the geographical area of origin to which copyright belongs and not diversity. It has been proposed instead of a PDO, to make it a protected geographical indication. We do not need to be economists to understand that the amendment of a protected name to a commercial name, in addition to the loss of any commercial value of the new name, will result in an increase in imports to Greece of olive oil - and in Europe - under the name of 'OLIVES' and from other producing countries. This cannot have a very serious impact on our exports and thus on production itself. Let us not forget that they are caradic countries that want to take advantage of this situation, such as Turkey, Egypt and others. You were asked a few days ago by the media about your design for the Kalamata PDO. You will allow me to mention this in my denunciation, so as not to exceed time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u112	Good, Mr. Koukoutsi. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u113	Along with a PDO product, which is, I would say, what we consider to be the flag for our country, the Kalamata olive oil, we must see what is happening. First of all, about four and a half million olive trees of Kalamata are cultivated in our country and are produced around fifty thousand tonnes of table olive, with 80% of them, i.e. 40 thousand tonnes of olive oil, being exported. The main volume is located in the Peloponnese, Messinia, Laconia, Arcadia, Elia. There is also in Central Greece and in particular in Itoloakarnania and Fthiotida, and recently it extends to other counties up to Evia, Arta, Preveza, Halkidiki, and even to Crete. The first institutional intervention in the product is held by a Presidential Decree in 1979, which obliges exporters of olives, the Kalamata variety, to export it under the label 'KALAMATA OLIVES', in order to protect the reputation of the Greek product. It was a first intervention. For the PDO "Kalamata Olives" the initial application for recognition was made by the PDO of Messinia in 1993. It was recognised at national level as ‘Kalamata - Kalamata olives’, while the European Commission was registered as ‘PDO - Kalamata olives’ and not under the original name, in order to clarify the distinction between variety and place. That was the justification from the Commission. A total of twenty companies are certified by "ELGO - PIMITA" for the processing, packaging, marketing of products "PDO - Kalamata olives" and the certified quantity of "PDO - Kalamata olives" in 2011 amounted to ninety tons, in 2012 to fifty three tons, in 2014 to two hundred thirty to three and in 2015 to seventy to seventeen tons. This is the product that has been certified as quantity in recent years. Exports of the 'KALAMATA OLIVES' products have been facing many problems over the past five years, such as, firstly, withdrawals of products in packages of consumers in many countries on the European market. Secondly, do not issue a certificate of free movement for third-country purchases by certain ERCC audit services. We have the peculiarity of the Office's services otherwise to behave with each other in this particular matter. Thirdly, we have questions, which are pending, about the legality of the movement of these products, which are submitted by audit authorities from other Member States and even from our embassies. All of this, as you understand, creates our international competitors opportunities to cover market gaps with their own products, which often call them "KALAMATA OLIVES" and you realize the added value they receive through this process. The reason for creating these problems is the adoption of the view that ‘KALAMATA OLIVES’ is the translation of ‘PDO - Kalamata olive’ and cannot therefore be used without the indication ‘PDO’ or the Union logo. Furthermore, this labelling is a misleading of the consumer, which involves sanctions. So you realise that we are all called upon to deal with this in such a way that we do not harm the PDO and at the same time see what we will do with the huge problem that exists for the other quantities exported. In my dentistry, I'm going to tell you right now what phase we're in.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u114	Good, Minister. Mr. Koukoutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u115	I understand that, both as Minister and as Ministry, your position is really difficult, because in fact you have stressed that our interest as a country is, on the one hand, to export larger quantities and, on the other, to protect the PDO. What you're saying makes sense. Consider, however, the olive grower of Kalamata, who can tell you this: I can also use this name in Kalamata or in Messinia - because it is a holy place - to plant from Kozani croc to Volos fruits and use this name. Is there ever, Minister, for example, to have the same quality as Kalamata planted in Pelion or Volos in general? Not at all. Why? I am not a geopole or an expert, but you know that it is the climatic and territorial conditions that determine the end product. So here's why we Messinians say that this product is something special. Let us not forget that we really have the best table olive in the country, but it is said to be the best in the world. As we also have the olive oil, as we call it, that is, the Coronneal variety, which is from the region of Koroni, Messinia. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] What everyone needs to know is that the mother trees - and everyone understands what I mean - are already in the Centre for Agricultural Research, the CEEC, in the city of Kalamata, in the former Institute of Olives. There is a mole of monster dimensions, which is a mother tree. So you understand that we must defend this product. I'll tell you something else, empirically. The virgin olive oil of Messinia has tenths of 0.8. The PDO you know has 0.5. I mean, there's a huge difference in quality. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So here's why we say we have to fight. It is not a request that has a localist character. We think it's the raw reality. It is a product of gold for our region and we must protect it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u116	The Minister has the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u117	As I said in my prototype, the PDO 'Kalamata Olives' is one of our flags of our PDO products on the world market. But let us see what proposals have been put forward on this matter. Five applications have been submitted to the Ministry by different bodies to amend the PDO specification, with completely different directions. The first was in 2012 by the Messinians themselves and specifically by the Association of Agricultural Cooperatives of Messinia to extend the demarcated zone outside Messinia in the areas of Laconia, southern Arcadia, southern Elias. First intervention. The second took place in 2013 by the NSA Messology, because it was interested in its expansion to Istanbul. The third was made by the Panhellenic Transitors' Union, which called for the annulment of the PDO for the reasons that are perceived. The fourth became again by the NSA Messinia to change the protected name to 'Kalamata - Messinia olives'. He turned from the wider limits to the narrower limits. The fifth was again made by the Federation of Transmitters, which departs from the modification of the specifications of "Kalamata Olives". In order to find a commonly accepted solution to the question of the coexistence of the protected designation of origin 'Kalamata olives' and of the commercial type with the term 'Kalamata OLIVES', our Ministry has been launching a dialogue with the stakeholders for about a year and a half, without currently having any effect. In view of the situation, which has been established, particularly since the dominance of the problems that I described earlier, in the export trade of Greek table olives, the entry in the Union list of Kalamata as synonymous olive variety - what was done by Cyprus and Italy, which, of course, had been guaranteed since 2012 - and until the failure to find a commonly accepted solution, we addressed to the European Commission on 27-12-2016, asking for questions arising from Article 42 of this regulation, which concerns plant varieties, which enables operators to use the designation of plant variety. It gives them the chance. We have asked questions and we want clarification. We will therefore take all the necessary steps. We will consult those involved in the search for an optimal solution, and that will soon be the case. We are clear that it is not in our intentions to abolish the Kalamata PDO, nor, of course, to unilaterally move on to the extension of the demarcated zone. Of course, we are also obliged to see how we are going to defend the income of thousands of families and other businesses on which you have said so and I hope it will be implemented - we hope that local attitudes will not enter this process, because we really want to defend a product that is our flag, as I have told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u118	Thank you very much, Minister. Before going to a later timely question, let me, and for reasons of registration in the Minutes, state the questions which are not going to be discussed. As we said at the beginning of the sitting, there are seven figures and they will not be discussed because of an impediment to the competent ministers. These questions will be redefined. I would like to inform the House in advance that these questions are also in the knowledge of the Secretary-General of the Government, who, by letter to the President of Parliament, informs the President of the Parliament what will not be discussed and why - and what will be discussed. The questions, therefore, which will not be discussed are as follows: The second, under number 423/31-1-2017, is a top-stage question by MP I Thessaloniki of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Antonio Gregos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the "private possession of the name "Macedonia" to sports organisations, will not be discussed, due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport, Mr. Vasilei. Similarly, the fifth question under number 378/23-1-2017 will not be discussed in the context of a topical question from the New Democracy MP, Anna Karamanlis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the temporary committee in Greek football. The fourth question under number 428/31-1-2017, first question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, concerning the immediate recruitment of fixed-term contractors (IDATH) - the guardians of museums and archaeological sites with permanent and stable work, will not be discussed due to unforeseen obligations. The first under number 413/30-1-2017, a topical question from the New Democracy MP, George Stylos to the Minister of Health, regarding the non-payment of cleaning staff from the General Hospital of Arta, will not be discussed due to misappropriated obligations. Likewise, the seventh question under number 389/24-1-2017 of the Member of Parliament, Aetolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr.Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister of Health, concerning the payment of workers clearers to the services of the General Hospital of Artas. The eighth Question No 387/24-1-2017, the second question of the Athens MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panagiotaraou to the Minister of Finance, on the legislative arrangement for extending approved expenses beyond hospitals, will not be discussed due to a workload of the Minister of Finance. The third, with number 403/30-1-2017, a topical question by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of National Defence, on the collapsing of European funding - inappropriately feeding refugees, will not be discussed due to the unsuccessful obligations of the Deputy Minister of National Defence, Mr. Vitsa. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Thursday 1 December 2016, Friday 2 December 2016 and Monday 5 December 2016 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u119	The minutes of Thursday 1 December 2016, Friday 2 December 2016 and Monday 5 December 2016 were therefore validated. We continue with the timely question by Mr Manolakos. Mr. Koukoutsi, you're first in a row, and then it's Mrs. Manolakou. Mrs Manolakou' s request also came to the Bureau, if you can, to make a mutual change in order and take the lead, because she has to leave for a job in a short time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u120	No problem. Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u121	So we continue with our fourth question under number 429/31-1-2017.Piraeus 2nd cycle of the Communist Party of Greece. Diamonds Manolakos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the government responsibilities since the suspension of forest maps. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Socrates Famelos. Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr President. It is true that the suspension of forest maps has revealed all the illegality that has been done, but also the political responsibilities of the previous governments and the present one, since they are clearly proving - they seem - the changes in the use and nature of forests and forest land, their conversion - if you like - to residential, tourist or industrial facilities and others. Apart from these illegal changes, however, many problems have arisen. It is no coincidence that in rural mobilisation farmers are demonstrating outside forestry services. The mistakes are due to the fact that large areas have been declared refreshable by fires and have included areas that are not forest, but have been - and are mostly agricultural. In Elias Prefecture, where 28% is refreshed, there is a thick outline for reafforestation. However, there is no duplication or exception for the non-forested areas within the contour. Of course, the same applies to Evia, but also to other regions. The effects of these problems are mainly two: it is a question of questioning the nature of agricultural land, which has always been agricultural. In fact, they also received subsidies. There's also the IACS digital, which says it's agricultural land. Their question has many consequences. You deprive them of agricultural activity or deprive farmers of the possibility of using grazing land. Secondly, to make objections, you've put ragged rags. That is to say, the objections to the nature of the land and the remuneration of a private forestist, lawyer, engineer, topographer, reach up to EUR 4,000 when these people do not have and are cut off from their food. This situation highlights the effects of urban policy on land management and its use, which of course aims to serve the investment projects of monopolistic groups each time in this sector. What are we asking? Firstly, to tackle the problems without any charge for all areas, which were agricultural and which are not questioned by their agricultural character. Secondly, the problem of exemptions from large fire resurrected areas must be solved immediately, without favouring trespassers, evacuations, illegal use changes. Thirdly, not to use forest maps and, more generally, forest policy as a tool for hosting grassroots layers. Fourthly, all necessary time and administrative measures must be taken by the state and the people must not be imposed on them. Fifthly, ensure the necessary scientific staff, both with resources and with state services, to complete all the procedures for protecting forest ecosystems.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u123	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Manolakou, you raise the issue of forest maps and I would like to say that this is a serious development and environmental tool, a tool and an environmental policy that is missing from our country. In fact, I must say that from the positions of the Left and from the positions of the ecological movement in recent years the demand has been made - and the demand I would say - many times for the creation of forest maps, but also for the existence of this - if you wish - for the restoration of legality and equality, which concerns both the rural population and all the citizens and the level of characterisation of forest land. I would therefore like, on behalf of you, if you agree, since you give us the opportunity for this parliamentary debate, to take the position today that the Communist Party of Greece also agrees with the existence of the forest maps and thereby agrees with the protection of the natural environment and does not support extremism or illegal use of former forest land. Because I think this is the starting point which unites us and corresponds to the rights of citizens and the equality of citizens, but also to the protection of the environment. Only then will we be able to resist any illegal evacuations and commercial uses of the forest, which I think is neither in the opinion of the Communist Party of Greece nor, of course, in the view of our Government. But what I would also like to clarify, because it makes me particularly surprised, because in previous days I think we will agree, is the way in which you are trying to charge political responsibilities to the current government, which implements what had been legislated in Greece for twenty years, all the scientific bodies and all the workers' and collective movements were asked to do so and were not implemented. So the current government, which implements what bipartisanism did not want to be done for forty years politically and twenty years of institutions, blame us for the fact that it is politically responsible for establishing and ratifying an environmental instrument for the benefit of citizens' rights. You will literally allow me to protest about this expression, because we have nothing to do with the policies that have changed, they have hired the environment and the forest ecosystem. There is, of course, a debate on reafforestations. I sincerely searched and found the positions of the Communist Party of Greece for the fire of Elias, for the fire of Evia and for all the other fires, and I agree with you that then you also asked for the clear and immediate determination and determination of the resurrected areas to protect them from the evacuation and trespasses. So from the same point of view, I think we are starting a debate on forest maps. What problem is identified as sovereign? And you will allow me to say the rest. The question of areas that have always been cultivated and benefited from subsidies. I must therefore tell you that there is no problem, no danger and no fear of these areas. There is no impact on the agricultural land which the farmers are legitimately using, which has been, had years and received a subsidy for it. There is only a problem in cases where forest land was declared as rural and amended. Here I think we should jointly formulate the roadmap for resolving this problem, because it concerns us and suspects and I would like it to be of concern to you too. In cases where forest land, not always agricultural, is used for agricultural cultivation, there is legislation, Law 998/1979 and Law 4280/2014, which allows the granting of ownership and use to farmers to pursue an agricultural profession and produce agricultural products to strengthen the primary sector. I can say that I would agree with you on a proposal that improves the conditions under which farmers already in the OPEKEPE system, in other words, the OSE will receive these areas much faster, if you want to do so more functionally, if you want to demonstrate the use of agriculture, but while respecting the legislation and reflecting legal and formal parity on the forest map. In such cases, the assignment or concession of the use of ownership should be made prior to the examination of the fee of opposition so that the ratification of the forest maps in the primary sector is not affected. This, I believe, restores the legality of both the rural landscape and the forestry landscape, because for us it is a large environmental reserve and we are also examining it and solving what you have mentioned in your question, risks of evacuation, trespasses or anything else. You will allow me to cover the rest of your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u125	Good, Minister, thank you. Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u126	Minister, you're talking about parity. What is an equal treatment when it comes to mistakes that have been made, even too cheeky, to pay carpets that do not have any responsibility? And you literally didn't answer the point. Why is it that people who are not to blame and do not make exceptions? And, indeed, to make exceptions, not to pay anything, just those cases that were agricultural or grazing land, and imprinting appear as forests or reservoirs. Don't unjustly characterize the world. That's what we're asking. And you didn't answer me, you didn't commit to it. Is that your isology? Second of all, what do you think? We, yes, it is true that we were asking for reafforestation, where there was a fire in the woods, because as many times as they were on fire, it was arson. In other words, the forest land has changed in character, and this today also seems to be the case with the grubbing-ups. You, today, regard the land as a merchandise. If you didn't think it was the first thing you'd do, you know what it is? It is to abolish the law of New Democracy and of PASOK, L.4280/2014. When you were in the opposition, did you say that you would abolish him, why is it a law that says? Recognises the activities of monopolist groups in state forest ecosystems. That's what this law governs. And you're coming to tell me that you want us to agree to maintain the protection of forests? Remove the laws that squeeze the forests. Thirdly, we have asked you, and you have not answered us, to ensure the necessary scientific staff, as well as resources, to the competent state services so that they can complete the necessary procedures for protecting forest ecosystems. Why are we telling you this? Because of the resources for the forest maps, 90% of the individuals get it. Ten percent goes to the forest government services that pull the whole gutter. Let me give you an example from Salamis. The forest map submitted by the private person was rebuilt by the officers of the Forest Service from the beginning. I give the Minutes and the Ministry's decision - it is since October 2016 - which guarantees this, that is, 10% of public forestry services and 90% of private individuals. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Diamanto Manolaku, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of Parliament.]] Ultimately, what's going to happen? They're going to bring mistakes, people get beaten and they're not going to be paid or overnight? Unless you go bankrupt with the existing forest services. Fourthly, the forest maps and the register, which you are proud of, are in the prerequisites of the third memorandum. I repeat: it is in the prerequisites of the third memorandum with a timetable. Why are they asking for it? Because it solves problems not about social needs, but about business groups, which at this stage are investing money on the earth. So what do they want? They want their hands broken, there are no doubts about the uses of land, about the property, about the nature of the property, about the lack of obstacle, about the lack of a barrier to gain easily, quickly. They are the ones you go to serve and you sell it as a hazelnut that you serve the people.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u127	Mrs Manolakou, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u128	I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. Together, with the services of the groups, as you have guaranteed them cheap labour and hunger wages, tax relief, you are actually facilitating the capitalist exploitation of land use. We say this clearly that forest maps alone cannot guarantee the protection of forests and state forest property, since the existing socio-economic framework leads to the delivery of the great interests and the fast track procedures that you are serving too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u130	Mrs Manolakou, I did not expect that in the face of the need for you to be differentiated from a really radical part, which was needed by society and the environment, you have reached a point which in some way calls into question the need for forest maps and you blame us for serving the interests of groups and monopolies, when what we say is that with forest maps no one will be able to trample and eject forest land. I wonder, at the end, whether everything is bowing to the goal of diversifying you from a progressive policy to create a charitable cloak. However, I think we need to find the substance, which is what I have called in my answer to this question from the outset, to say whether or not forest maps are needed. Because the vision may be socialism, but today the forest must be protected, the evictions must be dealt with, the villas and the hotels must also be dealt with. The commercial use of forests must be seen across the whole of civil society. He's got all the scientific bodies. The JRC won't be with us? Does he have a different view? Let's see the fee issue. I don't understand why the state has to take the cost of trespassers and evacuators. However, while there was a tariff policy in a ministerial decision of 2014, we came in November and reduced the cost of charges by 10% and by a decision we announced on Friday, literally on small incomes and small areas, the reduction is up to 60%.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u131	Freely, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u132	In the case of the five to ten acres that were 450 euros, reduced by 10% of the 500 euros provided for in the 2014 ministerial decision, if I'm not mistaken, we are coming today and doing 180 euros. In other words, the government and the end of objections are making it 180 euros of 500 euros which were in the previous government, the Prime Minister of Mr Samaras, and you are criticising us again. The end of the first objection is only 10 euros, for example, so that there is no coma to any citizen again you are criticising. We have exempted from the fees of those who are in residential areas, in settlement areas, in reafforestation areas, in areas where state characterisation is still pending, that is to say, where the state is late and it would be unfair for the citizen to pay fees again. But let us also solve the issue of resurrected people, because I see that you are insisting rather on why you want to speak with the rural area. So I repeat that no farmer has anything to fear in the case of agricultural use, even if they are in reservoirs. These areas will be identified and there will under no circumstances be any burden on the citizen, because this is imperfect, delaying the administration rather than our own administration. And all the resources will not be used for any financial purpose, for any debts and will all return to the forest maps, to have forest maps. Because for us it is a social priority and a need, Mrs Manolakou, and I want you to recognise it too and come with us. To solve the problems where the administration is delayed, which, of course, has no staff, but in no case is the hostage of citizens and producers. In fact, today we had a conference in central Macedonia with the Technical Chamber, the Agricultural Chamber, the Bar Association, where no objection was found to the suspension and existence of forest maps. We have seen the weaknesses and delays that we had to solve in our society forty years, where there is already a code in the region's budget and additional staff will be paid, Mr President, for posts and for the resolution of objections. So, yes, I agree with the last one. There will also be special reinforcement of information and staffing, and there will be a solution if you are concerned with this, as you mentioned in your first question, for the areas of resurrected areas containing agricultural land, which were rural, Mrs Manolakou. But I do not accept that, in a left-hand way, we have thoughts of forest land which has been unrealisticly evacuated, that they can be legitimised by your own proposal's policy. I don't think that's within your mind. I will agree that we have another reading. To ensure that all the areas that were agricultural, that there is no problem with subsidies, that they be solved, even if they were in the resurrected, combined and facilitated - I would say - to take these areas - even if they are not in their possession - and to amend Law 4280 for the benefit of producers - is not a foresticide and is for the benefit of agricultural production - so that there is income, work and social function in the countryside. This is a way of progressively reading the deadlock that existed from the lack of a real estate register, forest maps and environmental protection due to bipartisanism, which wanted the delays, Mrs Manolakou, just to play a popular, political, factory game in local communities, mocking on their backs citizens, but behind this handing back, some people took the forest land. I think we should agree that this cannot continue. And in the forest and the social environment justice, the rule, the equal, the fairness of the people must return. And that is what we will try to do with forest maps, solving weaknesses that are not due to us, because of the country's political system so far, but can be resolved with us. We also need cooperation from both producers and from political areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u133	Forest papers on social needs we have said and I see that the law of the New Democracy and PASOK supports it. Good for you!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u134	We enter the last for today, with number 422/31-1-2017, a topical question for the Member of the Messinia of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Dimitrios Koukoutsis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the "discontinuation of the suspension of forest maps". Here, Mr. Koukoutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, Minister, you will allow me to abuse one, two minutes more than my time, because I think it is a subject which is widely discussed in our society today and which is very serious. To understand the situation, then, we consider that we must see the truth, see the issue from the outset, which unfortunately does not do, the Greek state that comes back and comes under forest laws, always targeting revenue from the pockets of the nationals and, of course, now, as is done in property, through forest maps. I will tell you nothing but what my compatriots say. They write them in the papers, they write them on websites, they write them on the Internet, and that is what I have to say to the Greek Parliament. It will be beneficial for the rulers of the country many times to study history. The legal world must also take a stand on this, since it is very well studying the legal history of the big issue of our country's land. Of course, many decades ago the forest maps were posted and ratified. Of course it should already be a national register. You know that the first official placement for the national lands of the insurgent Greeks comes from the Peloponnese Senate, which, with the Circular of Stemenitsa, defined the provisions that should apply to land belonging to Ottomans before the start of the War and which would be used to meet the needs of the war. On the subject was the First National Assembly of Epidaurus, the Peloponnese Senate, the Second National Assembly of Astros in 1823. However, the economic tolerance of the governments, especially during the Messology of the State, finally led to the Law of 6 February 1826, according to which - in violation of the LB Resolution - to sell all kinds of national estates in order to raise money to help the besieged. Under this law it is argued that significant areas of national land have been divested. At the same time, the authorities tried to use national land to attract and reward those involved in military operations. For the private land the following applied: Those of the Christian growers were entitled to authority over land that they cultivated before the Struggle, right transferable and inheritable, were recognized by the Greek public as absolute lords of the earth. These growers had to prove their claims with titles of ownership, recognised by Ottoman law, or even with decisions of peace courts that ratified transfers of property. The right to absolute ownership was also recognised to those growers who had landed and cultivated them before 1821. However, the obligation to prove ownership on earth did not only affect growers, but also the Greek State, which was also required to present the titles which would justify claiming ownership on a land. In other words, the Greek State also had to prove that it has sovereignty over these territories. The problem of the sharing of public land has been very much addressed by the newly created Greek state, which has gradually adopted decrees and through national concessions it has given land to be cultivated in tens of groups of nationals.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u136	Mr. Koukoutsis, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u137	Immediately, Mr President. Other concessions were called "principals" and were given as compensation to participants in the War warriors, others to pyropolitics, others to heirs of victims, others to Cretans and others to refugees, but also to people who did not have a fate in the sun. Overall from the Revolution and until the last two decades of the last century almost everything was given by national land to the subjects of the kingdom. The evidence is there, but they've never been codified. The state never made a full account to see what it has sold, what it has left if it has something left. But learned in a wasteful policy, he knows very well...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u138	Mr. Koukoutsi, excuse me!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u139	I'll be done in seconds, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u140	Five minutes prototype. Two minutes, you're right. Of course, we're tolerating. How much tolerance, though, to show! You've got a second. And after all, I beg your pardon, you are well aware of the references you have made, but on this occasion the question you have tabled and ask the Minister to answer, as is the case with every Member you are not referring to.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u141	That's why...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u142	When is this for? After two, three minutes? Hey, excuse me!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u143	Yes, sir. It constantly puts the citizen in an apology process and proves even that he breathes. This is the basic logic of the state and practice. And one would expect a series to enter, not on the basis of the inflexibility and arbitraryness of the previous ones, who, after all, strongly accused of everything and now say "they did it, we found it". But you know, in the Mani area, to which I am referring, what was there? Alonia, mandarins, they were soaking - if you know it - wheat, lentils and lupins. Now the Maniotians won't be able to use them. The use of the manifold forest, i.e. the weeds, will be governed by the laws of use of the forest trees. The areas, i.e. where there are sages, leaves and towers, are considered as forests. I'm going to go on in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u144	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u145	Mr President, I cannot understand, of course, the reference to the historical elements of the Greek Revolution, the Greek state, the elements of a story full of democracy and freedom struggles. I don't know if anyone is wondering what this is all about. I would like to tell you that the Messinia Forests Directorate has posted on a special website the entire forest map for the Messinia Prefecture, except for five former OTAs - Messini, Thouria, Antalomalo, Sperhoea and Asprotection - for which definitive forestry maps have already been ratified. And one question arises: Does anyone advocate discrimination? So the five have already become forest maps, not to do to the others? Why? To maintain the evacuations, trespasses or insults of the forest? On the contrary, I think that what corresponds to Greek history is the restoration of legitimacy, of equality, of maps, of knowing what is happening, of not having any problem. That's why the Forest Directorate has printed an information brochure on the area. Even in this municipality of Western Mani, a special information event has been held. As far as I can see, he has discussed comments and the Municipality of Western Mani on his municipal council. There are failures and interpretations, which should be resolved together with the fee of objections, of which we have reduced the cost of up to 60%, so that no citizen remains outside it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Koukoutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u147	You were not with everyone so strict, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u148	Excuse me very much, I was very diligent with you, after I let you speak six minutes and forty seconds, having taken away from the time I just mentioned the interruption I made to you, to urge you to finish soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u149	No problem, Mr President. Minister, you underestimate us and you underestimate me personally when you say what we have to do with the struggles of the nation. I, Minister, am a maniac. In our villages, Turk didn't step on, did you understand? So don't tell me what I've got to do with my 1821 resignation. From there on, if you wanted a healthy and stable structure, you should do the same thing: record - because there are all the elements - to whom and what land you have given, identify them with today's reality and then proceed to the forest maps. You may find yourself surprised and can actually find that half of Greece already has a Stock Exchange. Watch out for that! However, these presupposes seriousness and responsibility and, unfortunately, costs rather than revenues, that is, the opposite of the company's 'forest maps'. These must be answered and not say whether it is a small or large raisin imposed in a period of tragic economic situation for the vast majority of the Greeks. Let the state first do what the citizens had to do and then. Give the good example and so close mouths. Can you imagine what will happen if a citizen proves in court tomorrow - and it is not very difficult - that he was once given him by the state, with official documents, agricultural land and now he is being taken as a forest? That is why we say that there should be a direct freeze, that nothing should be paid for by the citizens. It's unfair. In the case of poverty that afflicts the world, this cannot be done. These extermination fees must be abolished. The deadlines are insufficient, etc., and so on. There is a problem here, for its very reason, and I also have concessions and leaves from the General Journal of Greece, immediately after the Revolution. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Koukoutsis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] However, for one thing, be sure as a government, you will soon be dealing with the months of the farmers. It's not poverty, it's not OGA, it's ELGA, it's nothing. Now you're taking the land. Of course, there have also been violations, but it's a minority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u150	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr President. I think I should, at least for the citizens who are following us or who will read the Minutes, clarify the following: for the areas where there is a final act on the part of the administration or for the areas where there is an pending act, in these cases neither the nature nor the payment of the charges of opposition is called into question. So for these cases, where the administration has done concessions, designations or is also in the settlement, reafforestation areas, there is not even an end to objections, so there is no risk of them and the "bulk" which I have heard before, without any reasonable basis. At the same time, there are also areas where there is residence for workers, citizens and farmers, where there is the so-called denseness outside the project, and these are not included, so as to enable the first residence for the people in need, not to be imposed either at the end of the debate or even by examination for this period and to resolve it in a total of two years, organized and urbanised. This is all about restoring legality and equality. It is a debate that has indeed several shortcomings in the past and we must restore these shortcomings. We will do so in a democratic debate with society, with the tools of codecision, with what we have known and served for many years now, what we have fought for and claimed to enter the life of our society and Greece, but what you have nothing to do with what has never been served by your own spaces, which have been violated by democracy, freedom and rights and property, and I do not think that in such a place we must reintroduce such a debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-06-S1-commons.u153	With the consent of the House at 21.01' the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday, 7 February 2017, at 16.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's legislative work, according to the agenda distributed.
