ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The second, under number 894/26-5-2017, top cycle question (A) by the Member of the State of New Democracy, Vassiliou Economou to the Minister of Health, on the epidemic of theft of medical equipment at the Hospitals of San Savvas, Volos, Larissa and Lamia, will not be discussed after consultation of the Deputy Minister with the MP. The fifth, with number 901/29-5-2017, topical question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, on the worker at the "Help at Home" and the conversion of their contracts into an indefinite period of time, will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Congressman in question. Also, the fourth question under number 902/29-5/2017 of the F Vice-President of the Parliament and Members of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece, George Lambroulis, to the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the problems of the operation and the plan for the closure of the Chronicles of Children's Chronicles of Scaramaga will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the MEP. The sixth question under number 897/29-5-2017 by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, concerning the break-up of stores in Piraeus, will not be discussed due to lack of competence. The third, with number 890/24-5-2017, topical second-cycle question (B) by the Independent MEP, Mr. Dimitrios Koukoutsis, to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the prospects and needs of the international airport of Kalamata, will not be discussed due to lack of competence. The third, with number 893/25-5-2017, topical question by MP II, PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdus, Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the co-legislation of children, will not be discussed due to the absence of Minister Kontonis abroad. The seventh question under number 892/25-5-2017, topical and urgent question (A) by Piratos II of the Association of Centres Mr.Theodoras Megalonikou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "The risk of the tourist season being lost for the ship "VITSENTZOS KORNAROS" (Piraeus - Kythira - Antikyra coastline), which is a subsidised line", will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister, Mr Santoriniou, abroad. The fourth under number 896/26-5-2017 topical question by Evia of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Michou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: “On the brink of the collapse the house of the Hero of the National Energy, “Andreas Miaouli”, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Culture and Sport, Mr. Konordos. The first question by number 898/29-5-2017 of the Member of the Dodecanese Coalition Mr.Ilia Kamaterou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the 'Spatial Plan for Tourism', due to the impediment of Mr. Georgios Stathakis, on the grounds of a workload. The fifth under number 799/5-2017 topical question by MP Florina of New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Antoniadis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "the significant delays in the relocation of the settlement of the New Florinas that endanger the lives of its residents" will not be discussed due to the impediment of Mr. Georgios Statakis, a reason for the workload. The second, with number 907/30-5-2017, top-stage question by the MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARK KEGEROLOU to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the compensation of vineyards, oil producers and other producers for the damages suffered by the recent extreme weather phenomena, will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr. Gospelos Apostolos, in the absence of Athens. The first, with number 899/29-5-2017, topical question by MP Elias of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Gerasimios (Maki) Balaoura to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the timetable for the notice of Measure 5.2 and its use for the restoration of damages in extreme weather conditions greenhouse facilities, will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr. Gospelos Apostolos, a reason for his work. The third, with number 917/30-5-2017, top-circuit question (B) by MP II Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Sakis Vardalis to the Minister of Finance, concerning the Greek Vehicle Industry “ELVO ABE”, will not be discussed due to the impediment of Mr. Tsakalotou, a reason for the workload. The fourth question under number 903/29-5/2017 by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of the Interior, concerning the uncontrolled action of the hooded anarchists, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of the Interior Mr. Nicholas Toska. The sixth Question No 828,12-2017 by Attica, Mr. Mavroudi Voridis, concerning the granting of a five-year obligation allowance to a firefighter, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of the Interior Mr. Nicholas Toska. The first question under number 905/29-5/2017 of the Greek Parliamentary 2nd Republic, Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, concerning "the adoption of measures to prevent and combat cyber attacks", will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Minister of Digital Policy, Mr. Papa, a reasoned absence from Athens. The first question under number 3917/6-3-2017 (A) by MP Drama of New Democracy Mr. Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister for Migration Policy, concerning the money spent by the Regional Unit of Drama for the establishment and operation of the Immigration Unit of Immigrants in BIP Drama, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister for Immigration Policy Mr.Ioannis Mousalas, a jobload. The last question is not only timely. It's not Mr. Dramas' fault. Mr. Cryazides for a minute wants to protest. You have the floor, Mr. Cryazides.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. I was informed yesterday, Mr President, that my question will be discussed. Half an hour ago I was told that's impossible. How can I call that? Enemy?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u4	I regard it as unacceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u5	But do you know what, Mr. President? After two questions, the question was not answered and he came to the debate after three months to be discussed today. It is a serious matter from the point of view of political engineers, because we are talking about a hot spot in Drama of one and a half million. A three-day notice was given. Unfortunately, it wasn't announced. In a camp outside Drama a relevant notice was posted. After three days, he was given to a contractor with a discount...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u6	Do not develop the subject. Make your protest.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u7	The Medical Association refers to stakeholders. Drama and today we cannot get an answer. If you can protect us, because this is repeated.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u8	Mr. Cryazides, first of all, let me inform you that it is not the service. The agency was informed and informed. I repeat that it is unacceptable both for the quarter and for you to be informed half an hour ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u9	Mr President, I was informed yesterday that my question was to be asked. I overthrown my schedule and came here...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u10	Yeah, they heard it wasn't gonna happen half an hour ago. I say this because you are a regional MEP and if you knew it would not be discussed, you would already be in your region.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u11	I would also like to note that his State Secretary is here. He's here with us. Couldn't he come and answer? Why would this evasion not say anything else?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u12	All right, if it wasn't the State Secretary's fault, if the Minister hadn't assigned him...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u13	I didn't say it was the Undersecretary's fault, but I'm saying...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u14	I hail the Minister's absence. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the educational programme "Byron Municipality Workshop" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, sixteen students and students and an educational attendant from the 12th Municipal School of Vyron. The House welcomes them in particular, as I finished high school in Byron. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Now we're starting backwards, Mr. Spirtzis is here, but obviously he has some work in it and not to waste any time, we're going with Mr. Koutsoukos and Mrs. Big Economics will join me and wait. The second question will be discussed under No 895/26-5-2017 by MP Chios of the New Democracy. South Mitarakis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject of ‘implementation of the EDF and collection of contributions’. Here, Mr Mitarakis, you have the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u15	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, first of all it is a good thing that you always come to this House and answer the current questions. I should like to point out that there are several questions pending - reports that I have tabled to the Ministry, please, if you are kind, to see them because there is a delay in the answers. Now, let me get in on the substance: Since EFKA was announced and operated, there is a dimension between the evidence stated by the Ministry and the body in relation to the information announced by the State General Accounting Office. The Ministry of Labour in a press release announced an EPC surplus of 112 million in four months against a deficit budget. You had an overreacting target of 346 million. That's good. However, according to data from the General Accounting Office of the State, firstly, EFKA has been provided, the first quarter, 72% of the state contribution payment of the annual target. He has received 233 out of the 327 million that he is entitled to, and you are announcing that you have only received 84. There is a 150 million-dollar diagnosity between the elements of the EFKA and the elements of the General Accounting Office of the State. There is, from what we read, a problem in the collection of contributions. The self-employed in March paid 55% of the contributions, according to the figures we have. Also, the 2017 budget provided for a cash deficit of 687 million in the insurance funds, but with the medium-term that you voted for, and now you are forecasting a deficit of 1.6 billion euros. In other words, we have a one billion-dollar reduction in the provisions on the deficit of the insurance funds and, of course, complaints about shortages of basic goods in the services of the ECA, such as graphics, fuel for the service cars, are frequent. We want you to tell us, Minister, what is the exact picture of the implementation of the EU budget for the first quarter of 2017. If there's any savings from which codes came. How the deadlines of the organisation are evolving. And from insurance contributions, how much is the collection of insurance contributions in the first quarter of the month of the insured person? How many alerts sent, for example, and how many of them have been paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u16	Minister, here you go, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Mitarakis, the revenues for the first four months, as they have been recorded, are EUR 12,485.260,000. And we have already paid funds corresponding to the agencies for the contributions made by the ECA and we have still not to give 576 million. At the present time, in the EMCDDA reserves, from the receipts of EUR 12 885 000, after deduction of all the EUR 576,000,000 to be attributed to the EEAS and the other OAS bodies, AAE, etc., we have a real surplus of EUR 112,000. In the corresponding quarter of 2016, we also had a deficit of 343,000,000 euros from the corresponding deficit period. In other words, a surplus of EUR 112,000,000 is recorded last year compared to a deficit of EUR 343,000 that we had last year. We did anticipate a reduction in receipts and a deficit in the first period of 2017, which, however, was not confirmed. Instead of a deficit, we had an increase. And for your information, I will also provide a table on all the information that has been drawn up by the head of the Ministry's Directorate responsible, where this information is in detail. [[At this point the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr Anastasios Petropoulos, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Senography and Practices.]] We have an increase in receipts of more than 13.5% to employees, and as far as the free professions are concerned, and the EBRD is concerned, we have an increase in revenue from at least 15% last year. We were close to 50%, we have close to 65% increase in the collection of self-employed workers. I have to tell you that the forecasts we had last year will, in a way that is really overwhelming, which I said before last year's end to various questions of counter-population, that in the end we will not have the initial deficit, the budget at around EUR 100,000 000, which was planned, because the figures that will then appear to be different, because we had an increase in collection and expenditure reduction. I shall continue, Mr President, in my denunciation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u18	Here, Mr. Mitarakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u19	Minister, first of all from the data published by the State General Accounting Office in March 2017, the outstanding debts of the ECA increased by 200,000,000 euros compared with 23% in December. For the EUR 112 000 more target you mentioned, I expect to see the tables, see from which codes they are, and if that exceeds them. First of all, explain only from the increased payments made by the Greek State for contributions in the first four months, having paid 72% of the annual target to EVA. You're talking about collectivity. It's obvious at the moment that all EFKA's collectivity is coming from the old IKA. It is the collection of wage earners, where employers and under the law, are not able - and they are rightly unable - to pay their contributions at the right time. You don't have us, though, tells us what's going on with freelance professionals. You mentioned a 15% improvement in collection. Are you referring to amounts or are you referring to persons? Are those who have the lowest contributions paid to pay and who are now unable to pay the free professionals who have seen the multiplier of their bids with the new income criteria? The collectivity was 65%, you said in January. But EFKA said she fell to 55% in May. We have a collapse of collection by the free professionals, who have been a key objective of this government's tax and insurance policy, killing all hopes of entrepreneurship, all hope of creating in this place. Of course, with the fourth memorandum you have increased by 61% the contributions paid by the free traders by changing the method of calculating the insurance base. Of course, I cannot fail to point out that freelance professionals in 2017, ladies and gentlemen, are still paying contributions, based on the incomes of 2015, which are probably two years later not responding at all to reality. And there's a delay. Well, it turns out from HICP, these won't be ready in September. Speaking of delays, I cannot say, by closing the huge delays in issuing new pensions. As far as we know - and if I am mistaken to tell us this - no final pension has been issued with the calculations of the Katrugalos law, despite the amendment you have put forward and voted on in Parliament a few weeks ago. There is a deadlock in insurance, there is a overtaxation of productivity in this country, and we are not finally achieving positive budgetary results on the insurers, but above all we are keeping the country in recession for the third consecutive year of the year following the takeover of governance by SYRIZA and ANELs. And that's the biggest problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u20	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u21	Mr. Metarakis, the State has paid only 84 million civil servants, compared with the 340 million that they owe for 2017 to pay during the year. So what you're saying is not true. If the General Accounting Office of the State has actually made any other kind of entries, the relevant adjustments will be made. I'm sure of that. But, the man who owns the fund is the EFCA, he doesn't have the General Accounting Office of the State. I don't know if it's a public payment provision, but if it hasn't recorded the information I'm telling you, there's obviously going to be a correction if it hasn't already been done. Because the competent offices of the ECA and the Ministry informed me that they had a meeting with the General Accounting Office of the State, to properly assess the relevant payments and transfers. It is, however, precisely what I say to you: 84.5 million, compared with 340 million all year round. It is not, therefore, the case that we have a good result, because the public has given money. He hasn't given up. On the contrary, it is for the first period to pay a balance which, for operational reasons of the General Accounting Office, has not yet been paid. This is because each body has a different system for calculating its obligations to various operators, which, obviously, you know because of your previous term of office in the relevant Ministry. There is no way of paying directly and precisely from all the public to EVA the amount it owes. This is done by means of an entity and has the effect of delaying payment. We planned for the corresponding period of the first quarter of the first 234 million deficits and we actually have 112 million surpluses. In other words, we have 346 million positive discrepancies compared with the forecasts. This is not only encouraging, it is also a sign that demonstrates that we are on a different economic path. It is also concerned with improving working conditions. It relates to the best organization that we have brought about hitting the tax evasion and having more rapid and more faithfully the returns we want. As to the amount of certified receipts, that is to say as regards the alerts that have been paid to the insured, you must bear in mind that a sum of that amount is not receivable, from the point of view that alerts may have been sent to people who have ceased to have the obligation. They may have already submitted a pension application. Some of them may have grounds for dismissal because they have another development in their activity or interruption. In other words, the sum you see, to make the ratio you have made, is not accurate. We will then appreciate that in liquidation. That is why I am telling you that we have a better collection than it seems. You must also bear in mind that branches such as lawyers or farmers have not been inclined to pay their debts to the majority of their population, because they were used to paying them in June and farmers in July. There's a delay in these branches. However, we have a serious turnout for farmers and we have within the first quarter contributions, which were greater than the first half of last year, even though they were used to paying them in July. I would like to end with one point, Mr President. Excuse me. I have to stress this. We have Law 4669 on the settlement of the outstanding debts of the social security institutions. In about a month's time, I will make the relevant ministerial decision on the arrangements for these debts. Please very much - because the world is not well informed, for many reasons, I stress it at every opportunity - to rush to pay contributions from January until now, free professionals and doctors and lawyers and scientists in general, so that they can be subject to the positive arrangements of debts for the previous period, until December 31, 2016, so that they do not go beyond the possibilities offered by the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u22	However, at some point we all have to see the fact that when the individual is not consistent with his payments, we are changing his lights to increment and fines. When the public, as I have heard, is not consistent with his obligations, we simply mention it. This is timeless and I don't account for you. At some point, the State must also pay for surcharges and fines, not just the private person. We continue with the second question under number 918/30-5-2017 of the second cycle (B) of the MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the restoration of the right to the grant of a widow's pension without conditions and conditions. The State Secretary, Mr. Petropoulos, will answer. Before Mr Karathanasopoulos speaks, we welcome the ladies sitting in the middle theory and I understand that they are directly concerned - not individually, but as a general topic - and have come to follow the question. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u23	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is well known that, with reinsurance law No.4387/2016, the well-known Katorugalou law, the SYRIZA and ANEL government effectively completed the crime of previous governments against social security and led to the passage of the right to social security, aiming at its core, namely its social character. Of course, we will not discuss the law in full today, but we will discuss a part of this law, Article 12, which in the most dramatic way confirms the painful consequences for insured persons and pensioners. In particular, by virtue of Article 12, that law lays down the conditions for the award of widow's pensions in such a way that, in fact, the right to a widow's pension is effectively abolished for a large part of the persons insured and, in fact, in an absurd manner, the age criterion. In other words, if the surviving spouse - and usually she is a woman - has not completed the fifty-fifth year of age, then she is only paid for three years, and if only by chance, during that three-year period, she has completed the fifty-fifth year of age, then pension is interrupted and re-issued at the sixty-seventh year of age. So, from fifty-five to sixty-seven, twelve years, what's it gonna do? Is he going to work? Can you guarantee her a job? If it does not complete it, it shall be completely abolished. With what logic? And why would it be the fifty-five years and not the sixty? And why would it be sixty, not forty or thirty years? When the rest of the conditions exist, what do you do with it? On the substance, you are abolishing the right to the pension of the insured, because she was also indirectly insured by the husband. That's what you're doing! And it's driven into the excerpt, turning the social character of insurance into individual responsibility. From this point of view, therefore, we consider that this provision is unacceptable. It must change, be abolished and a widow's pension must be awarded to all without age limits, first and foremost, and conditions of another kind.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the above Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, thirty-three students and students and three educational attendants from the 17th Municipal School of Nice. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ms. Big Housekeeper, for your sake, the children are here. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. In fact, for cases where there are no necessary supports for the continuation of people's normal lives, there is not much to say. There is, in fact, a particular sensitivity both to me and to the government in this regard. I must explain to the ladies who are watching that I fully share, like the government, the issues that arise and we need to see how we deal with the consequences in these cases. However, first of all, I should like to explain what is now happening with regard to the pension for widows. I have questions from SYRIZA MPs, but there is no one in Greece who doesn't ask. We are all trying to see what we are going to do with this, which has emerged from the well-known position, Mr President, of the European Union, that the average in Europe should apply. And because in Europe, France in particular, it is the fifty-fifth year that is the case, so we have had to establish the limits for widows' matters. In other countries it is even worse and I do not want to talk about them. In other words, a widow's pension is taken to the maximum age laid down for the start of pensions, i.e. even worse. But we have to do with this obsession, unfortunately, with those which are not favourable, the average conditions in Greece. For the positive limits for other things, such as negotiations, there was no debate on the creditors' side. But that's what I've explained again. In the process we are incapable of insisting without jeopardising the conclusion of the legalisation procedure for the second assessment. But what I have to say - and I shall continue in the second part of my speech - is that the problem exists for a number of people, no matter how important it is to see them, the number does not matter. But we need to know that people with minors or with a 67% disability or with children with a disability of at least 67% will continue to receive this pension. So it's not just the three years. Three years is for us, for this time we're running. We still have two years in front of us to see what policies we are going to implement to deal with the extremes of these cases, to find measures to strengthen these individuals, to find work, and to look at a number of measures that we are working on and to investigate at the Ministry, so that we can deal with these cases. One of these measures is to provide that for two years during the five years following death, the public pays insurance contributions for employment in this case for persons in the widow's state. I shall continue in my dentistry, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u26	Mr. Karathanasopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u27	In fact, Minister, you really leave me incompetent with your cynicity. I cannot say a word when you say that the larvae of evaluation and agreement with lenders decapitates the right to life. And that's how you call it unregulated. There really is no word to describe your actions. You have now brought me some situations where it makes sense when it is disabled, when it cannot be maintained. That makes sense! What are you talking about? You think what you're talking about? Do you have a picture of your so-called and their consequences? 'Will we see' and 'we do'? So, what are you going to consider? The right to live? Who put you judge of the right in someone's life because he got a painful incident? It is not enough that he lost his partner, that he stays out of his face, when some choices are forced because of the texture of someone's work, Minister, that is, the husband or wife can't work. And after all - you do not have to do this, nor do you guarantee the right to work, as the Constitution says. If it were compulsory and, of course, insured, it would be another kind of debate. But we are talking about a certain form of structure. And you now come back to overthrow everything in how someone else had organized his life and family. Apart from that, however, the financial result is minimal, because it concerns very little people. But beyond the number, how many are involved - we are not going to stand by the number - is it right or not? Was he indirectly insured? So you're retiring to an insured person? What right? On what basis do you abolish it? And you are telling me now about the average in the European Union? So if the European Union throws the kids at Cavalas, we'll throw them away too? Because that is the European Union! It's a wolf alliance and you confirm it. He is not at all interested in matters relating to human life. And if what you say is true, of course. We say clearly that we must today, if not yesterday, get the government back to this article, Article 12. It's unacceptable. And not after five years and see how the course will turn out and how many are concerned. What do you mean, how many is this about? So should we put it on the balance? If it's ten, will we change it, if it's fifteen, don't we change it? Do you put the balance of human life and the right of another to live with dignity? What are the ones that you did a little while ago? [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We're telling you this clearly. It has to be changed. There can be no such criterion. Set another kind of criteria based on an insurance logic. Because that's what we'll understand, even if it's not fair. But the age criterion has nothing to do with safety requirements, nothing at all. Not to have filled the badges, to understand it, to be less the badges, to understand it. Or maybe we should talk about it, not understand it, but talk about it at all. But this? We are clearly saying that our position is: without preconditions. There can be no condition for the award of widowhood.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u28	Withdrawal of Article 12. Good. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u29	Mr Karthanasopoulos, on a sensitive subject everyone speaks easily, because it is indeed very sensitive and is also allowed to raise tons without costs. But you can't blame me for cynicism. And it is not because I have never expressed a position of indifference to the problem. I said we should appreciate how this is happening. Because when the law was passed, all the cases of widowhood which existed until then, since its entry into force, maintained the conditions under which pensions were granted. It didn't change anything. So, first of all, we need to see how many people are left uncovered by the law. Because in the case of widowhood one can acquire and accept the property of the deceased, have a business, have a shop, have anything to do with the activity and need no pension support. You can't rule that out. What, cynical do you find that, too?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u30	But are you serious? Would the other guy be retired if he had any property? Would he be retired if he lived?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u31	I'm serious! Please. Let go of you now, Mr. Karathanasopou. I'm talking about your class opponents.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u32	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, listen to you very carefully. It doesn't sound anything right now. Don't get exhausted. He heard you without interrupting at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u33	What criteria are you putting on? So in the end, you're going to abolish the pension for the one who can have a fortune? And you say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u34	Let go now that you're angry!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u35	We're not talking about a woman shipowner, a industrialist or a banker! Come on!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u36	For this so-called indignation style by the uniquely sensitive towards me of the cynic, I must say...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u37	Your actions and your words show it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u38	The question is such that there is a consensus to find a solution. Let's not raise the tons.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u39	Please, Mr. Karathanasopou! At least comply with the seriousness of the matter and do not take advantage of it to show that you are too sensitive, while I am unconscious. There's not that thing. Be sure! Each one is also characterized by his life.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u40	Will you change the law?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u41	That's the greatest right they have! Their lives!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u42	From his life, everyone knows. All right, Mr. Karathanasopou, you've found a situation now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u43	Minister, you're actually coming in. I'm trying to calm things down for something that should be quiet. We all want to find a solution for this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u44	Will you change the law?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u45	I want to tell you...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u46	Mr. Davakis, it will be time for you to tell us at the end. Don't talk, please. Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u47	I try calmly to speak at a level that we can reach agreement, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u48	Will the law change? That's the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u49	Mr. Davakis, please. I have answered this question to you another question of yours. You're all asking me, and I'm all answering.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u50	Looks like you have...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Colleague, do not interrupt the Minister to finish. Minister, continue and you will have tolerance to complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u52	Therefore, Mr President, it is important that the state sees the effective way in which people's rights are protected, which must ensure the decent level of life that it must ensure. And what I said before, I will explain with one example: my wife - I will say for me, so that Mr Karathanasopoulos is not disturbed - he is a lawyer and has my office. If I go, he won't have any problems and he doesn't get the pension. The problem is, I'll be gone. That's the most serious thing. It's not how he's gonna live, because he's gonna be able to live. He's gonna be fine.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u53	Others can't.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u54	What are those things? You also found this reason to sit down because I said something...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u55	Mr. Undersecretary, let's finish. Now do not say that 'I will be gone', 'I will die' or 'the other one will die'. Friday now, before the Holy Spirit, how come you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u56	Shame on you! You're crossing the line! Aren't you embarrassed? You don't have a cigarette?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u57	It tells me to be ashamed of Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Mr. Karathanasopoulos is upset because I referred to the man who has too much money. And Mr. Karathanasopoulos is very upset. The guy who's got too much money, he could have factories, he could have revenue...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u58	They're the ones you're protecting! Those who have too much money are protecting! With your policy you protect them! The industrialists and the shipowners! If that's possible! Are we talking about them? Aren't you embarrassed? Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, please. Calm down!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u60	Listen to the insanity.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u61	But if that's possible!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u62	Good! What can we do? Don't embarrass me! You're an experienced congressman! If you're acting like that, what's gonna happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u63	Mr. Karathanasopoulos...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u64	Minister, close and complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u65	Mr President, when I speak on a whole subject next time, I can really close it very soon. But Mr. Karathanasopoulos, with the firm conception of the class enemy, who has a lot of money, and we need not take care of him, is now bored, because I said something simple. I said there's no need like that in some cases. So I want to say to see if there's any assets or assets. Fortunately, we have prevented and seen the law, and we have predicted - and in this application we are doing - that we extend solutions where they really are necessary. And we have two years in front of us to find more solutions so that we can cover such cases. We'll appreciate that. I hope that next time Mr. Karathanasopoulos will be calmer and less offensive.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u66	Generally, all of us. Here are the two questions from the Minister, Mr. Spirtzi. But, before we enter them, I would like to say that I was informed by the Government Secretariat, from the office of Mr Kalogeros, that Mr Mousalas, in fact, was not here today because of the evacuation of the Greek. I'll report it because they've been briefed, as they should. Now, of course, it will allow me to say that the Greek evacuation did not take place at 8 a.m. this morning. I guess it was planned. It's another thing that he was kept undercover and another one that was decided this morning. We move to the third with number 891/24-5-2017 a top question from the Member of the Eleas of the Democratic Comparison of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Giannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: 'No visible perspective for Patras - Pyrgos road'. The rest of you don't listen to that. We thought other things. Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, this is the fourth time that my own topical question is being debated here about this long road, Patras-Pyrgos street. And all because your government's first job, but also you personally, you have just assumed authority, was to cancel a single auction job and put us in very big adventures. And in order to mitigate the impressions of this action, you made false promises, that the auctions will begin in June 2015. Then you told us that they will be completed by the end of 2016. And today we are in the middle of 2017 and not only have the auctions been completed, but there is no prospect of starting work. And you must now answer for your planning and the timetable. The reason for this new topical question is that you did not answer the common question, which we had with Mr Maniotis, and we put the new data. Because the "friend" of the government, Mrs Kalogeritsa, who took the first four contractors, did not come to the next. And according to press releases - authors I have here, he did not come because he could not get a guarantee letter. Because, in the meantime, there was the Bank of Greece's press report on the concessions to entrepreneurs that were not banked by the Bank of Attica and then the Bank of Attica published its letter to the Kalogrisa Group that told them that you cannot carry out the projects. And the question is not now that Mr. Kalogeritsa didn't take the rest of the contractors, as you might have planned. The question is: Can Mr Kalogeritsa, who has taken the four of the first contractors, carry out the work? And what are you doing as a government? Will you declare him a discount? Are you going to make the contest a barren one? Are you going to the second broker? When, Minister, will you conform to these contracts? When will the file of the major project be submitted? When will there be a cost-benefit study and, in any case, when will the projects begin and when will they be completed? That's the question. If you want, answer us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u68	I'm sure he'll answer technocratically. And not to raise tons. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. My dear colleague, unfortunately for the previous governments, the only visible prospect for the project has been today. For the people of Elijah, Achaia and Kefalonia to know when the work was likely to be done. And I start: Who made false promises? There was the part of the project, as you know, because we've been through it many times before. But repeat them because you don't remember them. It was part of the work of the "Olympia Road". Your government in review took it out. An act, at least criminal. Why was that criminal act? Because the new section is now deemed autonomous by the European Commission for its viability. So let's see who's giving false promises. So when you said that the tender was ready - which we canceled - with what cost-benefit study would be resolved by the European Commission? With who? Nor as a deferral part did you put it like the other two parts of the E65. The road load is specifically and autonomously calculated. The cost is made by the auctions. Today, with more than 50% discounts, we have sweated to approve it. So let's see who made false promises! How were you ready... [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Minister hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, I beg your pardon, for Mr Koutsoukos to understand why the work would not be done in the way they say.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u70	That was a warning bell, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u71	How were you ready? Studies were not available, companies of the seventh class had resorted against the competition and studies. The quantities were distorted. The environmental study was by subdivision of inert materials for other reasons that refer to other considerations. So how was the play ready to come out? He hadn't been approved, how was funding given, how? So what do we do now? I will reply to you - because you have said things, which are generally misled by your faction and by specific circles - to end some stories, which are in the context of the truth. Let's see what's going on. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] It's been six out of eight auctions. I imagine you know that. They're done. There's two of them left. The two will happen in June. One is until 14 June, from what the service note says - I will submit it in my speech - and the other will be the end of June. In the time you said, we had - if you remember well - in June, in the summer of 2015, the capital controls, in September we had elections, in August 2016, we had a new law on public procurement - fortunately - which provided for specific things. So we had to go from the fourth auction and then go with the new law. That was the new data. So we do have a few months late. However, in order not to have any other kind of delays, at the same time as the auctions and the proper study of road sections, with the correct study and not with the fake figures that went to auction the project - because work needs to be done on this - we are making use of this time and we are working with Jaspers, which is the technical consultant to the European Commission who will check the application to be submitted. The cost-benefit study, the evaluation of this study is the critical and decisive element. That is what we are looking at together with the Jaspers group. Many scenarios have been studied to demonstrate the viability of the project at this cost, with these discounts. If we were to go with a 0% discount on the 'Olympia road', or if we went with a 5% discount, 6% discount, 10%, as was planned with the companies of the only 7th grade - because that would be where the discounts would be - then we would never have approved by the European Commission. The cost-benefit assessment would not come about. As it is known...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u72	And close with that protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u73	Mr President, Mr Koutsoukos asked me about the Attica Bank.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u74	She asked another question you haven't answered yet, even though I left you double time, six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u75	What am I supposed to do? I have to take a lesson, Mr President, so that everyone understands what the procedures are and who is lying, who is giving false promises and who is not.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u76	You have one more minute, because it's not local, it's super-local, it's national.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u77	Like this. So, Mr. Kutsuko, we have six of the eight auctions. The other two will take place in June and we will not have the delays in approvals in the European Commission. So you said again about publications. It's just the papers. We are also missing colleagues from the Democratic Independence, who are quite accidentally moving these publications from the New Democracy. So let's see what's going on. The first charge we had so far and was playing was that we were parting the project. Is that correct? Yes, sir. I shall testify to what you have not dared to do with your complaints. It's the verdict of the inspectors. I haven't been able to go to the D.A. to get you the filed complaint I made to myself and the Ministry since no one else went to do it to you. Not only for this, but also for the Kalloni Street - Sigri for gifts, etc. Secondly, as part of the public works course, is the project entrusted? Is a part of the project entrusted? Oh, no. Why isn't he assigned? It is not entrusted, because we do not have the European Commission's approval of the big project and all the procedures. So there's no question of it if we don't have a contractor. We have a temporary contractor. These contracts will be passed after the Court of Auditors has been approved, all the necessary checks will be carried out and then we will be going to sign contracts. If one of the temporary contractors does not have the formal and legal details required by law, you will obviously go to the second, third and so on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u78	We're done with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u79	You don't want me to say about the Attica Bank?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u80	Keep it for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u81	Good. Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well,
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u82	Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor. You will also have a relative comfort, but do not "handle it".
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u83	It was very tolerant of the Bureau and it did well. I have no problem, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u84	I'll be with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u85	It was more than twice the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u86	Because the subject is over-local, it's not local.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u87	Unfortunately, however, in these seven minutes the Minister has not been able to answer the main question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u88	To what?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u89	When will the projects begin and when will the project be completed? Because the rest are excuses for the drunkenness. This is the only lesson that the Minister can give, who has a great deal of nerve told us here that he wants to give us lessons. The only lesson in your government, Minister, is that you have broken up a single project to get the best friends and the best friends, with whom you were struggling to enter the business space and the media area, and now it seems that you are in a dead end, in a frenzy failure. I don't know who had lands to embed them in Ithaca, who was a lad and so on. I am interested in the multipathic Patras tower, which is not only about Elias, but also about the entire western Greece, it is about the Istanbul, it has no prospect of launching and completing the project. Because, Minister, if you had not cancelled an invitation to tender published in the Official Journal of the European Communities - and you know very well that the bureaucrats of Europe do not publish auctions - you would have proceeded with the cost study today - benefit and you would have submitted the file on the great work. Unfortunately, your behaviour has led to the fact that I described earlier, that neither of the six tenders have gone ahead - I am not talking about the last two of which are drafted, I am talking about the previous ones. We are drawing the data from parliamentary control. None of the tenders are at the stage of completion in order to sign the contracts. The question I raised, that is, that your chosen person has no guarantee letters, is not a question for you to pass it, as it suits you. You need to answer what will happen at least with the first four contractors and tell us and then whether a project with a discount of more than 50% will be completed or whether you will make additional benefits, i.e. commissions, as you have given up until now. We, Minister, have not yet charged you with criminal offences in order to come to the prosecutors. We have accused you, Minister, of civil offences, of which you must apologize. Because in the last six months, fatal accidents have occurred at the crossroads of Gaston, the Lecanes crossing, Lappa and the other day in the Sayika. You can't go out on TV, cutting ribbons, inaugurating the "Olympia Street", which still has columns, because I spend twice a week saying it didn't become any deadly. For the fatal accidents at the "Patras - Tower" who is responsible for this, since you are inclined to say that we had no fatalities? So, Minister, the question you need to answer is what action the project will start, when it will start and when it will be completed. Because I want to remind you that according to the law, on the basis of which the project was made public, the timetable was at the same time as the "Olympia Road". There are responsibilities here and you can be sure that we will look for them. I have to tell you, by closing that as Elias and I as a Member we will not accept being victims of your own method. If you think that we are making a mistake in our political assessment, give a very clear answer that the world expects: When do projects begin and when does the process end? Until today - see your answers here in Parliament - everything you have told us has proved to be untrue, not to lie. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u90	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u91	Mr President, I wanted to keep the conversation in mild tones, but some continue...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u92	Hey, you threw 'em away too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u93	Some continue to mud, sludge in the fan. Okay, they've been addicted to it all these years. I get it. However, they have no right - none - to muddle consciences or lie primarily to their fellow citizens. Who is responsible? Those who took the project off the "Olympia Street", which would be delivered now. They're responsible. You, Mr. Kutsuko, and those who voted this thing. Who is responsible? Secondly, I should like to present to you the findings of the inspectors who have left - you should also go to the Prosecutor's office - which says that it is not partition, Mr Kutsukouko. It's not partition. It's just that they're not the best friends of 0% to whom you're giving them. Understand? It's a 53% discount, with 55%, with 57%, with the Greek people's money, which you've been kidding all these years. Take the document.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u94	Check it out, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u95	Take the second one for the Sigri, for the supplement, for the gift to Calagrissa to make a channel. Take the second one. I am also tabling the Office's document. [[At this point, Minister Christos Spirtzis presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] And you've done it not to tell what in the Chamber. Wrong studies again, wrong amounts, all wrong. Let's go to the Attica Bank. Aren't you bringing us this terrible exhibition of the Bank of Greece to read it, too? To create impressions, as usual, you asked me a question about the Attica Bank. How do I answer you for the Attica Bank with the great Mr. Maniatis? Don't you know that, that I'm the Minister of Infrastructure? But in your timeliness, mention the Attica Bank and claim and invoke publications from the Athenian press. You don't know people. You get newspapers and read them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u96	They're true journalists.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u97	Acting journalists, just like here! "Four in four, Spirtzis in Patras - Tower". Acting journalists! Announcement of the Democratic Incorporation by authors: "The SYRIZA - ANEL, there are miracles" and so forth. They say: “We do not say criminal. Politically we say.’ To his best man, he says, he gave it to the plays. Isn't that criminal? Are you kidding us? If you have a clue, Mr. Kutsuko, I challenge you. Otherwise, I have also caused your colleague, MP Heraklion, who said all the rest together with others here of the New Democracy, by parole and by means of 'clarifieds'. Remove the veil you have here, go to any court, see who pours mud and who doesn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u98	Are you threatening us, Minister? Mr President, does the Minister threaten Members in this Chamber? Is that possible?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u99	Let's go to the Attica Bank. I said, Mr. Kutsuko, if we find an illegality, I'll resign. Where is he? I'm going to go to the prosecutor on what you've been complaining about with your supposedly approved journalists. So let's go to the Attica Bank. On the occasion of your timely question, we are making a document at the Attica Bank from the Ministry to see what is going on with this Kalogrisa and this great exhibition of the Bank of Greece. So we sent the text of your timely work and asked about the fragmented work you say. The inspectors and the prosecutors and the European Commission, the independent authorities, the whole world, are responding, but you do not want to understand it. We understand why. It hurts not to get the project all along with a 0% discount. It hurts.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u100	Let's go to the Attica Bank, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u101	So let's go to the Bank of Attica with the information of the approved Attica press: "It is impossible to present any guarantee letters after the judiciary has been involved in the financing of the Attica Bank". Mr. Pantalakis is answering. You know Mr. Pantalakis. Do I charge Mr. Pantalakis too? You've had him for so many years in the Agricultural Bank. He was proposed by other organs, as you know, to be placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u102	You appointed him.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u103	Did we appoint him? Listen, Mr. Kutsuko,
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u104	We're not going to talk about Mr. Pantalakis now. And why it's absent and why it's not the question of the question. Close with the Attica Bank!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u105	Mr President, here the 'approved' newspapers and Mr Koutsoukos accuse me of the Attica Bank of being President of the TEI.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u106	I won't keep the question for half an hour!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u107	Deal. They're blaming me because I was the president of the TEI. Now that their resignation twice took off the right-wing president of the TEI, who put him in Mr. Pantalakis? I'm either going to charge them when I was president of the TEI, or you're going to charge them now. Pick. Mr. Kutsuko, right-wing president you took off to the TE. Your kids over there.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u108	Who is a government, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u109	So Mr Pantalakis says: "The Kalogritsa Group..."
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u110	Don't scratch my tongue for the TEI.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u111	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u112	You've deleted Mr. Stasinos and we don't know that, Mr. Davaki? He says: ‘The Kalogris Group has approved financial limits at Attica Bank and is aware, normally serving its obligations towards the Bank’. Something you don't do, of course, as a PASOK. ‘The approved limits of that customer cover and permit the issue...’
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u113	After you took it and left PASOK! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u114	We won't make it to the afternoon! Nobody listens to you now!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u115	Shame on you, you prick! Are you provoking me?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u116	Who provokes, Mr. Kutsuko, we see it in here! And who says slander!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u117	Calm down, both of you! Unless you decided to abolish the Bureau! Thirty seconds, you're closing, Minister. It's over!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u118	I'm hanging up. Thank you, Mr President. It therefore states: ‘The approved limits of the customer in question cover and allow the issue of guarantee letters’. Where's your latest publications and information? Where is he? It shall continue: ‘If, therefore, the projects referred to in the current question by the honourable Member require the issue of good execution guarantee letters and these amounts are within the approved limits, the bank will discuss their issue with respect to corresponding cover-ups’. Everything that's going on with all the companies. I am tabling the document by Mr Pantalaki of Attica Vank, so that we can finish with mud, specula and all the other features we have been fed up with for two years. It's coming now!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u119	The debate on this topical and urgent question has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u120	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u121	Mr. Kutsuko, excuse me. You're an old colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u122	Mr President, I know that I do not have the right to speak again, but I would like the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u123	No, because there's going to be a rival.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u124	The Minister cannot threaten us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u125	Ask another timely question. The fifth will now be discussed under number 906/29-5/2017 in the first cycle (B) question of MP II Piraeus of the Union of Centres Mr.Theodoras Megalonikou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the failure to tender for projects in island municipalities. I am a congressman for Athens, and I remind you that I am an islander. Calm down, please, because I'm interested in hearing about the islands. Mrs. Big Housekeeper, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, a huge problem has arisen both in the small municipalities of the islands and in the mountainous municipalities. What do I mean? The auctions of all projects, from the point of view of the municipalities, have been frozen because of the legislative initiative you have taken. I will submit - not by authoritative journalists, but by mayors - relevant letters sent to you, to the district managers and all the relevant letters. So the works and the auctions have been frozen. You claimed there were wastes in municipalities. Okay, there were. But all the works must not be stopped. Send the mayors who had wasted and exploited them in justice. From there on, however, it cannot be in the name of fiscal consolidation, which you think you are doing, burning all municipalities and all regions, especially small islands and mountain towns. For example, in Kythera, my husband’s special home, he has two years to make a work auction. You tell them that with Law 4412/2016 the auction committees are required to consist of technical officials, which small island municipalities and small mountains naturally do not have. Where do they have three technicians to make a decision to auction a project? In fact, from the letters I will submit one on 19 September 2016, the second on 24 January 2017 and the third on 23 May 2017. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance, please, for a minute, Mr President. I also submit my request for immediate intervention - an amendment to Article 221 of Law 4421/2016 by the Network of Municipalities of the United Kingdom. Attica, Aegina, Agistri, Troizinia, Poros, Hydra, Kythera and Antikythera. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Theodora Megalonikou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Also, the electronic tender procedure requires an update of prices in the studies, which creates huge blockages for them, because no such studies have been carried out. So we have a dramatic situation towards these municipalities, and I am afraid that for another year there will be no work. It's not auctioning. I ask you, Minister: why do you not give specific guidelines for small island towns? Why are no exceptions pushed, so that small municipalities, islands and mountains can move forward? Will you solve this as soon as possible? Will you proceed with the publication of interpretative circulars so as to unlock the works as soon as possible? Finally, the most important thing is to answer whether there is a danger in the end for all these small municipalities, which have sweated and bleeded, to lose European funds because of your delays.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u127	'The point', Minister, please respond to points of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr President. I will try to be very brief. Mrs Big Economics, in relation to the ministerial decision to review prices it is planned that there should be a transitional period for projects that are mature not to have to make new budgets and all the rest, so that they can go ahead. In relation to the letter from the mayors, I will say that it is not a financial issue. We have anticipated all public bodies carrying out projects, so they are being supervised by their committees to be diplomats and technicians. Is that insane? Oh, no. Kythera is your husband's home. The Municipality of Kythera will go for a competition for the port, the municipal building, a kindergarten, anything. Who's going to oversee it when he doesn't have three technicians? How will he supervise it? How won't they kill people? How won't the works get malicious? How? I don't want to blame the mayors. You can put some mayor's responsibilities on some other things, and I'm going to say them, but it's not a financial issue for the municipality to have three technical officials. We have established the technical adequacy of services so that there are no services that have no engineers and no works. It cannot continue to do so. Second, are we making a way out? We're giving out. It is provided for in the law, if the municipality wants and does not have the three engineers, to make a programme contract either with the district or with any other public central body in order to make the tender and to carry out the project. So what's the problem? Can I tell you a few problems? The most recent president of the CEDEFOP came out and blamed us for the direct assignments that we abolished. We didn't abolish direct assignments. What we have done is that neither the Minister nor the Mayor should go and say "I assign to the Grand Economy twenty-five assignments". We built an electronic system, it works, makes every municipality a painting, becomes a draw, and whoever gets gets doesn't get into the next draw. There is transparency, so that many mayors or many public officials are not wrongly charged with making direct assignments. I can't really understand why the mayors are protesting. I do not want to believe that some mayors for direct assignments had already given oral studies and cannot currently cover those assigned. As far as the rest is concerned, tell the mayors and the mayors and the Poros and Aegina that here is the region, here is the Ministry, and the central bodies, at their disposal. If they don't have three technicians to do the auctions and perform the works, they can't do the works. They will be directed at more centralised bodies to implement them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u129	The recital I think - you'll have your second language - is the closure. And it's not just the periphery. Why the local chambers, your technical chambers cannot help? Because there are indeed island municipalities, Minister, I had lived as President of the CEDEFOP, who is the mayor or mayor and an official for the entire small island.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u130	That's the way it is, so much worse.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u131	Since the Minister's door is open to see the mayors, let them know if they're going to ask the Minister for an appointment, or if things are running. Mrs. Big Housekeeper, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u132	Mr President, I also present the CEDEFOP document, Mr Patulis, for the problem that has been mentioned. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Theodora Megalonikou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You said you could help. If we look at Kythera, for example, there is a technician who can. In the prefecture, how many technicians do you have there that will be able to go to such small islands? I mentioned the islands of Piraeus. It is, however, too many islands that are very small, both in the Aegean and in the Ionian and others. How many more will be able to deal with two more things? The only solution I see is to give them other engineers and cut service provision. Help them to proceed with the works. In this way you say, which you are right to say, there will be no work going on because there are not so many engineers in the counties that they can cover all of Greece. I mentioned five islands. Six thousand islands have our Greece, thank God. Can you cover for them? If you can, good for you. But at least it would be clever to tell the engineers to cut service. Tax them, too. To pay. They must also have jobs, which cannot be built in a building or in a house, to be taxed, and to pay for their insurance contributions. It would be much more profitable for both the state and the projects would go ahead. I'm saying that because I've studied accounts. As for what you say, to give through a computer their offers, I would like to say that they first - first - are not familiar. There are no organized people who have learned and can handle it. That's the first. Secondly, tourism will be very badly affected. I saw at least ten traffic accidents on roads with turns last year. They drive tourists they don't know. One is coming down high speed, and the other is on the other side. We know it and we go wall - wall. We're about to fall into the cliff. But the others who come down and don't know, they're collide. There's got to be projects. These people who are on these islands, excuse me, but they're waiting for tourism. Unfortunately, the Kytheras have a problem with the boat as well. So, these people pay rent a year, they pay insurance contributions a year and if they wait to work twenty days, a month a year...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u133	And Naples...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u134	Naples, okay. The second route will be on the 20th of July.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u135	Leave Naples alone. We have a Laconian congressman.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u136	There is no tourism. And these people wait a month to work, Minister. Well, they're gonna shut it down and get up and get out. Antikythera, written today, desolate. There are no residents. So, how are we gonna end up? Look at at least get these projects, find the solution, take care of those who have to be responsible for submitting them, arrange the lessons they have to do. Find another way to proceed with the works. I'm telling you, I'm not in the mood to fight. How could we help them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u137	Minister, you have the floor, although I think you have given an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u138	I will set an example, Mr President. Flooding in Skopelos. They left large pieces of the road and underneath there was a large ravine with a high altitude. The municipality had a technician - mechanic who, if we didn't do what we did, man would go as a mechanist to make a road with a 50 meters cliff underneath. It can't be done. And this road that fell like that, by someone who wasn't an expert. So one solution is for the mayors to move forward and make trans-national technical services. They can do this if they exceed a logic of a violin per municipality and per technical service or town planning. They haven't. The region, of course, can cover them. And the ministry can cover them for whatever work they want and have such problems, and those municipalities have such problems. We have a partnership with the Ministry of Shipping in order to make structures to support the municipalities both from the Ministry and from the Ministry of Shipping and from the Ministry of Development, to mature projects, because that is the biggest problem in the small municipalities. From that point on, I believe that the implementation of the projects or the logic of interdepartmental technical services, which can do so, gives the right, and towns themselves. In addition, regions and central services may also be established. I would also like to say that the electronic systems that are currently being introduced and which are also provided for in the next draft law, which will be submitted for their monitoring, will make very great savings in human resources. So it will be good for our mayors to make any application involving scientific staff for the municipalities, because they usually avoid it. They usually have another direction. Some of them at least.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u139	Let's move now, because if I'm in the Bureau, and I hear it's the mayors' fault, as I've been through self-government, I'm going crazy. But I am now going through this and we are going to discuss the last for today, but not the last time we have a topical question. It is the first with number 904/29-5/2017 a topical question for the first cycle (B) by MP Laconia of New Democracy Mr Athanasios Davakis to the Minister of Health, on the further weakening of the Centre for Health of the Municipality of Sparta. Here, Mr. Davakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Mr President. I return to an issue that the Minister is aware of, as we had raised it almost two years ago and which was worse than it was then, which was the subject of the question at the time. So, Kastorea Health Center: Two years ago the Greek state established this centre in a remote area, an area that is the centre of an old municipality, Capodistrian municipality, which gathers around the population of over fifteen communities and settlements, with a special and difficult road network in the Taygetos villages of Taygetos, covered this health center. The local society embraced it, felt that the state was coming to its side and, in particular, the great people, because as you know, the ageing of the rural population is enormous and very extensive throughout the Greek territory. It has been two years and despite the answers you gave me, which I would say you were careful, critical and possibly very tight, you were nonetheless giving a hope, a radius of hope that the Castro Health Centre could survive with a specific design, study and all that would be composed of a more thorough and responsible - if you would like - of research on the issues of this health centre. It has been two years and instead the health center has been completely weakened. The doctor director has gone to the new facility he's preparing, the TOMY, to Sparta. Nurse's on its way back and forth. There is only one doctor who could give his services to this center, unfortunately there is not. I'm sorry, but we went worse. Instead of giving a good prospect to what you told me two years ago, in July 2015, we are now coming to say that there has been a bleeding of the staff. What are you going to tell these people who come from the villages and the door is closed every morning? Grandparents sit in line and wait either for an examination or for the drugs or for anything else. Why, Minister? There's a huge 'why' that I'm told of, and I'm telling you. I want an answer to this 'why'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u141	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u142	Dear Mr Davaki, indeed, this issue has been debated again. The picture I have at the moment from the service and from the 6th Health Area with which I have contacted is as follows. Allow me to open up a small parentheses and say that the Castro Health Centre was set up in 1993 without an organisation, without any provision for organic posts. Then comes the government in 2011 and turns it into a multi-dimensional regional office and then, on the eve of the 2014 elections, it reconstitutes itself as a health centre with eight organic positions, and ribbons - it is clear the feasibility of this intervention - without any prediction of how this structure will be provided. Today, then, the picture is that they serve two doctors, a general doctor and a rural doctor and a nurse, and that what you characterize as weakening is the movement of a general doctor to the health unit of the EMCDDA...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u143	The manager.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u144	...the director at the Health Unit of Sparta, who now for the first time started operating in an institution, the "Gerulachio" Foundation, which was given to the municipality in the city of Sparta with a very good function, with more than ninety to a hundred people a day on the needs coverage, with the ability to prescribe, and that citizens do not need to address the regular external doctors of the hospital, to distribute the hospital in this way, while, respectively, at the Health Center of Kastorea, precisely because the area covered is small, it is much less the attendance. The agency tells me it's, like, fifteen people a day. We have therefore decided that a more rational use of human resources should be made. We didn't deceive it or shut it down. In fact, its function is prevalent in a multi-purpose regional hospital rather than in the operation of a health centre. That's true. The picture I have is that with the new transport data the distance from Sparta is about 15 minutes old. I think, therefore, that what we really need to have in mind is the overall picture. The overall picture, then, is that within Sparta a structure was created that did not exist. It is also scheduled with the new primary care model that we will promote another additional local health unit. In addition to the Sparta PES, which will be renamed to a civil-type health centre, there will also be a local health unit. We believe that the positions we will be calling for will be covered by a staffing of ten overall doctors and other health professionals. It is therefore an intervention in the overall upgrading of primary care in the wider area and does not conflict with the function and services offered by the health centre.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u145	Here, Mr. Davakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u146	Minister, I'm sorry, but I've been waiting for another answer. My information is that the director has moved. A director who worked for many years at the Castorea Health Center in various forms and knew it all over the world. She left the only nurse, there's a permanent general doctor and a farmer who's one in Sparta for on-call and all that means to his presence there. The political self-interest of the governments concerned, nor of my own party, to build a health centre in this area, and indeed with a coronary flagrant case, the case of January 2015 was cut ribbon, beyond the condemnable and suspected period you mentioned - and I will plead to it in you - shows that the local society with the tomacle break and the vote, if you wish, required a health centre in this area due to the exceptional circumstances, the exceptional environment, as regards the relief of the area, the remote villages, etc. And it shows that he needed it. This requirement should not be assimilated to the invoicing of the great image. Because for me the great picture, as I believe you are a Member of the Greek region, in Crete, I think the fifteen people you have said, are fifteen people of great age - mostly, who have come from a village forty kilometers away to Castorio Health Center and are waiting to take the CBEL at noon to go back to their village, with no children possibly, their children in Athens. The profile you meet in Rethymnon. So don't say the principal left, went to the CDC and has a provision. I agree that you develop this structure and it can help and dismantle Sparta Hospital. On the other hand, however, the Castore Health Center must live. There is a strategic reason in terms of disarmament of many situations to survive this health centre. And I would say that what you said now is inconsistent with what you said two years ago. I have the Minutes: "Our intention is for these infrastructures to be reviewed in the context of a more general planning, which must have the logic of sectoralisation, namely the provision of services close to the place of residence of people." The profile of these people may be 15 minutes from Sparta via the national road, but it is another hour from their village to go to fifteen minutes from Sparta. It's not next door. This health center served communities in many other areas, who went to the Castore Health Center. You need to see it, Minister. F.H.I.E.S. says it a little bit in theory, it seems to me. There's a lot of pressure. I condemn the ribbon of 15 January 2015. It was for election reasons. From there I see a sign written "Ministry of Health and Welfare. Castorium Health Centre’. And that goes down. He has a radiological lab, Mr. President. He's got a dentist's office. This means that the Greek public, the Greek people, have wasted money to set it up to make an X-ray for him to do a dental check. There can be a lot of things going on. Minister, think that if Rethymnon had such a health center, you should maintain it. There should not be bleeding, like now that the principal is leaving, nor should the nurse do on-call and night nights at Sparta Hospital, so that this centre can be charged with running. See it again. I feel like you understand what I'm saying to you. It's a shame. At least, the sign offends you who are now Minister for as long as you are!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u147	Thank you. I made a rough calculation. Fifteen people a day for twenty days a month are three and a half to four thousand per year. The amount is not negligible.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u148	Obviously. We must continue these people to be served by this structure. That's clear. It is neither a question of closing nor degrading.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u149	But it'll be degraded.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u150	Mr. Davakis, I said this. We have a structure in Sparta, which precisely for F' Health Region to function, considered that it had to move a doctor from the Castore Health Center and one, also qualified general doctor, from the Regional Croques Hospital. Finally, the function of this structure, which has multiple attendance, proves that this movement was right. Because that was our understanding, that is, that we must make the most rational use of human resources at the time when we are very close. What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u151	Do it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u152	I want to be absolutely honest. Of course, we have an infrastructure over there in particular. Not to open up the debate on how the infrastructure was being built, how the equipment was made, on the basis of the customer, localities, etc. However, the infrastructure with European resources has been made. That's how these things were always done, without any serious planning for their staffing and operation. I say this. Let's see the possibility. First of all, there is no question of degrading the current operation. The people who work there will keep working.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u153	But they don't work, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u154	But I told you. A general doctor, a farmer and a nurse are working. That's my picture, unless it's inaccurate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u155	That's the picture in the boxes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u156	Mr. Davakis, listen carefully. He didn't interrupt you at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u157	Mr. Davakis, what we can do is, in consultation with the FHW and Sparta Hospital, see the possibility of a periodic presence of a dentist and other specialties possibly. That is, once or twice a month, to visit the health centre so that people in the region feel that there is a care and care, of course, with the well-known difficulties we have at this time. Apparently the priority is to be Sparta Hospital sufficient. Secondly, the structure of the PEDY, I told you, in the urban complex of Sparta, should be sufficient. Thirdly, the hierarchy and prioritisation come this particular health centre. I think that with this intent a solution may be found to a little more stable and upgraded operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u158	Thank you too, Minister. That concludes the debate on topical and urgent questions. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the above Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-six students and students and four educational attendants from the 13th Municipal School of Chania. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Before we close the sitting, I have the honour of announcing the following to the House: The Standing Committee on Morphic Affairs presents its reports to the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: (a) 'Following the Memorandum of Understanding in Sport between the Ministry of Culture and Sport of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Youth and Sport of the Arab Republic of Egypt'. (b) 'Sports cooperation between the Ministry of Culture and Sport of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Youth and Sport of the Arab Republic of Iraq'. The Standing Committee on Economic Affairs submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Adaptation of Greek legislation to the provisions of Directive (EU) 2015/2376 and other provisions’. These "other provisions" prerequisites smell to me! The Ministers for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Home Affairs, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Health, Economic and Administrative Reconstruction and the Deputy Ministers of Interior and Finance tabled on 30-5-2017 a draft law: ‘I) Termination and adaptation of Greek legislation to the Warsaw Convention of 16 May 2005 on Money Laundering, Detection, Confiscation and Confiscation of proceeds from criminal activities and on the Financing of Terrorism, Incorporation of Decision 2003/577/JHA, A - P/212/JHA, A - D/783/JHA, as amended by A - Π 2009/299/JHA and Directive 2014/42/EU, (II) Conditions for the placement of minors in an institution or a contractor family from and to the Member States of the European Union under Article 56 of Regulation (EC) No 1967/2006 Council Regulation (EC) No 2201/2003 of 27 November 2003 on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matrimonial matters and matters of parental responsibility, repealing Regulation (EC) No 1347/2000, Incorporating Directive 2013/48/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2013 on the right of access to a lawyer in criminal proceedings and a procedure for the execution of a European arrest warrant, as well as on the right to inform a third person in the event of his or her freedom, and the right to communicate with third persons and consular authorities during the deprivation of freedom; IV) Integration of Directive 2012/29/EU establishing minimum standards on rights, support and protection of victims of crime and replacing Council Decision 2001/220/JHA." It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Colleagues, MP Mr Theocharis Theocharis seeks permission from his absence abroad from 6 June to 9 June 2017. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u159	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-02-S1-commons.u160	With the agreement of the House at 11.58 p.m., the sitting is closed for Tuesday, June 6, 2017, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: legislative work, according to the agenda distributed. On Monday, which is the Holy Spirit, let the Holy Spirit illuminate the managers of the country!
