ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-08-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-08-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Before we begin the debate on topical and urgent questions scheduled for today, I have the honour of announcing the following to the House: The first, with number 522-4-12-2017, topical question by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister for Migration Policy, on the subject: "Great risks for the future of the refugee from the wrongly practised policy of the Ministry" will not be discussed due to the inquiring MP. The third, with number 488/1-12-2017, timely question for the first cycle of the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odyssey Constantinople to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Unprotected first home ahead of the auction wave prepared by the Government and no arrangement for red housing loans", will be discussed as a result of an impediment by the relevant Minister on the grounds of a "government mission". The fourth under number 486/1-12-2017 topical question for the first cycle of MP B' Athens, Georgios Amyras, to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "No “leasure” house in the hands of a banker”, will be discussed due to an impediment by the relevant Minister on the grounds of “government mission”. There is also the letter from the Secretary of the Ministerial Council. So we begin, with the first with number 570/5-12-2017, a timely question for the first cycle of MP II Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Dimitrios Mardas to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Mydocultures: Important losses of revenues for the public, the inability of new permits and illegal activities". As you can see, you'll be at ease of time. It's only two questions that will be discussed. Here, Mr Marda, you have the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-08-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, Minister, the issue to be asked, as you have said, is aquaculture and, more specifically, mydo-culture. Muscle farming is a very dynamic sector of the Greek economy. One sector, which is developing, is an extremist sector, but which is facing many problems. It has had many problems since 1999. At that time, by Law No 2742/1999, there were forecasts of how aquaculture had to be developed, but from that time to 2015 there was nothing to do with it. For fifteen years, strangles, stiffness, bureaucracy were those which led to the failure to complete the provisions of both the law and subsequent provisions. This law and subsequent provisions provided that the institutional regime introduced by it may only be applied in the so-called ‘organised aquaculture development areas’ of the so-called WHI. At the same time, it was planned to set up a body which would be responsible for managing and supervising the whole process. For many years, as I have noted, nothing has happened, of course, since the licensing process, due to the provisions of the legislation, was stopped in 1999, in the sense that those procedures were not in operation, so that the proper licensing of mydoculture could be started. In the area of Thessaloniki we have two areas, which are Kymina and Khalastra, which produce high-quality mussels. On the substance they produce 80% of the total Greek production of the country. They are areas which, as you can see, have been facing too many problems as a result of the state's gaps and indifference for so many years from 1999 to 2015 due to development and illegal farms. In the context of our efforts to solve the problem, in cooperation with the muscular farmers, the region, the decentralised administration, which had specialised executives and scientists, we have prepared a study in the past twenty-two pages, with the help of which we have proposed to the Ministry, in order to help resolve the problem, some solutions, with a view to unlocking all this problem and resolving it, until the establishment of the OHIM bodies, so that the problem can be solved primarily by illegal holdings. We know from there, of course, that the Ministry is under pressure so that the problem can be resolved first by setting up the so-called WHI bodies. The questions are as follows: How does the Ministry intend to solve the problem of the licensing of new mydological plants and how will the capacity of the existing legal units be extended? What steps have been taken to remove the sector from the entrepreneur in which it is located, to set up the OHIM body, and how will the illegal activity be dealt with? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-08-S1-commons.u4	Minister, Thessaloniki gar. We must respond and finish it in the prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-08-S1-commons.u5	I shall try, Mr President, to do so because most of the honourable Member has already mentioned it. The cultivation of mussels is one of the most important branches of primary production in our country. The annual production exceeds twenty-five thousand tonnes per year and indeed 80% with 90% is produced in the Thermaikos Gulf, Mr Marda. From Pieria, Imathia, from Kymina and Chalastra, twenty - one thousand tons come out. It is true that this sector has been facing serious problems for some fifteen years in organising with a failure to license new plants, and there is also arbitrary occupation of marine land and irregular product trafficking. You know, of course, - and you mentioned it - that under the 1999 Act, this activity can only be carried out in areas of Organised Development, which have been designated since 2011 and despite the 2014 Act on the Development of Aquaculture, no PDO has been authorised throughout the entire Greek territory. I believe that this was the result of a lack of political will to solve the problems of aquaculture for many years, so that the farmers have been captive of a legal but illegal framework that prevented the development of the sector, fuelled the future and left illegal activities with opaque and irregularities, due to the absence of rules and the functioning of units and risks to the environment. Of course, those who had the right activity were never free and were not able to invest. So in your first question, how does the problem of the authorisation of new units resolve and how capacity expansion is to be granted, the only solution is to establish PDOs, because this is also required under environmental legislation to place plants. Unfortunately, the very great thorn of the past was the uninstitutional existence of a location, although 2011 became the specific framework for spatial planning and was determined what areas were planned for the development of water crops. As far as I can see, none of them went ahead and no study has been submitted. In particular, for the area of Thermaikos, there were two areas: the one of Pieria that catches up to Kyminas and the other of Chalastra - Machinery. So here, as you have seen, the problem has been very great. So, on 1 September we held a very large meeting in Thessaloniki involving all producers, municipalities, the decentralised district and decided on a very specific road map, which I announce to you: First of all, to promote immediately by the Ministry of the Environment the draft Presidential Decree on the PDO of Pieria, which was the most mature and advanced one. We called for the commitment at the beginning of September of all the municipalities concerned to form the institution, because as you said, they had not set up a body. It is too many years, 15 years, which has remained this loose end. We have also called for the strategic environmental impact study. At the same time, we suggested that there should be a special moleculation of the young, the unemployed, to get new shares, because there would also be potential places for the new mydological plants. We also called for the relocation of the existing 'legislative' existing positions. Because they are now still in the old, shallow places of mydology, which is also the problem with blue crab and some people are also taking on new ones, so that they have a double load in the same bay, so there is no food for the mussels. And so, we have low production this year. At the same time, we have asked and committed ourselves to the accreditation of the Hydro-organism Pathology Laboratory. Also very important is that producers should be involved in the operators, because so far producers themselves have not been allowed and participated in these bodies. I must therefore tell you that the relocation of the existing units to the new sites is already being promoted, so that there is sufficient depth, sufficient food and cleanliness and quality for these products. Thus, we will also solve the problem of the hunting of the sprout from the blue crab and at the same time, we will not have the dispute with other professional groups protesting the pollution caused by the old plants near the coast, the tourists, for example, in the Pierre region. So even before the presidential decree of Pierre PDO, there will already be an organisation, a state of the new position and rationalisation. And to close with the most critical questions, I think we can also announce, on the basis of your question, that, for the Pierre region, we already have a positive suggestion of the strategic environmental impact study by the Ministry of the Environment's Environmental Licensing Department. According to information we have from the Spatial Planning Directorate, within the first two months of 2018, the recommendation to KESYTHA for the presidential decree will be submitted, so we will probably have, with our own government and your own pressure, the first presidential decree for the region. At the same time, in November 2017, the PDO management body in the Thermaikos region was finally set up after our pressure. There has been a solution with the municipalities. The municipalities of Alexandria, Delta and Thermaikos participate normally. The representatives of the regional and municipal bodies concerned are already appointed for a general meeting to replace the provisional administration at the end of December. There is already a practical company of GEMI that I will present to you - set up and created - and we will be committed by the new management board that the strategic environmental impact study will also be submitted in January 2018 for the PDO of Thermaikos. So in both regions of the Thermaikos Gulf, a problem of growth and mydo-culture will finally be solved after 15 years. In short, I have responded to what is planned for the next few months.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-08-S1-commons.u6	Mr Marda, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-08-S1-commons.u7	I just want to point out that we are tabling the study we have given to the relevant ministries in order to resolve the problem. From that point on, to the extent possible, for the region of Chalastra and the Kymins, it may be possible for the Ministry to give a timetable for any development of the work and initiatives so that we can achieve a result which means that we will have legal and in all orderly holdings in the region.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-08-S1-commons.u8	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-08-S1-commons.u9	It's quite right what Mr. Mardas said. I thank him first of all for this proposal which we will study. It is possible, Mr Marda, to resolve the problem in one region of Greece, but it may be possible in the other regions to define the institutional framework. We shall look into it, because it will obviously also concern institutional regulations for the aquaculture sector. If a strategic environmental impact study is now submitted within the first month, as they are committed, in 2018, we on the environmental licensing side can have completed the issue of environmental licensing within a quarter. I can't commit to the rest of the spatial data. But for the environment I have the responsibility for the portfolio, I assure you that, as we ran the Pieria issue, the approval of the Thermaikos will be completed very soon. Thank you very much, Mr Marda.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-08-S1-commons.u10	We continue with the second with No 573/5-12-2017 timely question of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP Kilkis Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: “No individual needs for firewood in violation of the law”. At the same time, Mr Georganta, you have the floor for the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-08-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, on the occasion of the submission of my question, I was the fact that I was the recipient of protests from inhabitants of mountain regions of Kilkis, namely the Crusia - a mountainous tumor we have in Kilkis - and Belles. The people of these villages who are at the border with these volumes have therefore complained to me that they cannot meet their individual needs, because the possibilities that the law provides local forestry and forest management services are not exhausted. With a rough study that I have carried out on the status quo, I have found that the legislator has, over time, ensured that the individual needs of mountain and paradoxical areas are met by priority, especially when an area, a forest ecosystem is managed. Where there is a management study, the law provides that there must be a commitment of specific structures from which the inhabitants of the areas eligible for the wood must also be able to obtain their individual needs. The inhabitants of these regions are usually OGA pensioners with very small incomes, as we all know. While some years have allowed them to do so, others have not basically given them the reason that the appropriations from the decentralised regional administration have been reduced to locally owned forests. But, as you know, the law, as you well know, goes beyond the question of the allocation of appropriations, which we all understand is why they have been cut, and indeed dramatically, enables them to be supplied self-sufficiently to the inhabitants through the office services. And while over time, and in all the amendments to the legislative texts, there has been this provision, we unfortunately see that from region to region in Greece forests are facing and approaching this issue in a different way. So we have forests in which the possibilities provided by the law are actually exhausted within the legal framework and all the needs are met, and some other forests where these possibilities are not exhausted, I repeat, given the reduction in appropriations which, if not there, would not have been a question, because it would have been more simple. In view of the reduction in appropriations, I would ask, Minister, and on the basis of the possibilities offered by the law, that I have the position of the Ministry. It must be a clear position so that we can have a homogeneous attitude from all the forests to this issue which is indeed of concern to the inhabitants of these regions. Indeed, they have been concerned since the summer and unfortunately always in the fall they are trying to find a solution. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-08-S1-commons.u12	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-08-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr Georgioda, for the question. To say in advance that it is good to see at what very time this information was available because I, too, have investigated the situation and I will tell you what I have found. Perhaps we will also cross-check the figures out of parliamentary control in order to help the region and the citizens. That's our target.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-08-S1-commons.u14	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-08-S1-commons.u15	Let me say that it is very important that your question and timely first of all because the areas you refer to have important energy needs and why we celebrate the World Mountain Day on Monday. It's something that happens to be in the conversation. We all know that forest ecosystems through appropriate use and management can make a significant contribution to the sustainable provision of services and products. It's something our country had in her DNA. He doesn't have to tell the truth. We lived in the forests, we earned from the forests, we made a dilemma for the people of the province from the woods. But now we are again in a process that we are reviewing specifications for management studies that do not exist in our forests. We also found financial tools to make management studies. Let me tell you that many forest systems in our country have no management study. We didn't have a forest strategy. It was something that the Memorandum expired the state's attention. On the other hand, forests can give up to 1% of GDP. I say this because my colleague also serves economic science and has experience in economic ministries. On the matter of fire-extinguishers, I must say that it has always worked for the benefit of the traditional settlements, the inhabitants of mountainous and semi-sourcing areas and has given them firewood, whether at lower prices or with a relief for their collection. I must therefore tell you that since February I signed two decisions. One for the determination of a price for the disposal of technical timber for the individual needs of residents and the other for the disposal of burners for the individual needs of residents and two for the two elements. One is the low price for these inhabitants, and the other is the special social criteria that give relief to burners so that there is a possibility for vulnerable groups of a particular policy. Of course, in areas with an altitude of more than seven hundred meters, inhabitants were entitled to 50% more wood. We, therefore, first of all, assessed this decision which existed from the previous governments and decided to extend this policy. So far only Neuroscope and areas over seven hundred measures have benefited from this provision. We have therefore decided to give 50% more wood and 50% lower price to all the inhabitants of mountainous areas who have either three days of ice-cream all year or more than five months with one ice-cream day. So we were able throughout northern Greece, because it was no area of Kilkis, Mr Georganta, within these so far favourable measures, to reduce costs and extend the quantity. So more and more residents - and I think this is right - have economic relief and access to an energy item. At the same time, we also want to achieve an increase in the available timber from the Greek forests so that we can also produce a product. So our government has chosen to extend for all the mountain communities for all the people who suffer frost and live in the countryside the benefit of the largest amount of exhaust gases at a lower price. Let me also charge this on our own options. Now, as far as the issues you are describing are concerned, I have investigated a little whether in the areas to which you refer, there are management studies and whether in the areas to which you refer, there can be self-satisfaction in the areas to which you refer. So I tell you that in the vast majority of Kilkis forests, the two forests we are talking about - Guenissa, Kilkis, if I'm not mistaken - there are management studies. Since, therefore, there are management studies, self-help can only be done by forest cooperatives. It cannot be done, that is, individual scratching. There are other decisions, so-called Forest Police Ordinances, the DPOs, with which this procedure can be carried out. However, I asked the forests to inform me whether firewood has been made available to meet individual needs and with what budget, because you also asked about the level of the budget. So I would like to inform you - and if you will excuse me, Mr President - that there are six management studies at the Kilkis Forest, in Guenissa another six, and there is a document from the Guenissa Forest - on November 15, this is why I want to compare them - which says that the needs of all residents in the firefly area have been met, and on October 18, 200,000 euros were provided to the Macedonian-Thracian Decentralised Command, with the result...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-08-S1-commons.u16	All of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-08-S1-commons.u17	For all of it, of course. So that has resulted in the budget that we had as a ministry - so to speak - from 2,293,000 to 2,716 000. In other words, we have increased the budget for firewood, so to speak, by EUR 450,000, by increasing it in relation to the previous years, because you are finding a reduction. We did exactly the opposite, then. We increased the budget. And from what I see, 56,000 euros were given to Gumenissa and 63,277 euros to Kilkis, and as a result, from what the Kilkis Forest informs me, the needs of all residents and the Kilkis Forest have been met, because of these exceptional funding, the areas of Murions, the Moon Rail Station and the Agia Paraskevi have been covered. At the same time, there is also a police provision - IDU - of the Kilkis Forestry for individual scratching. On the basis of the above, therefore, I have one year left - and that is why this gap has been covered - all the people have been satisfied. In fact, there are also residents who are exploiting and the favourable elements of this year's political regulation, which has been extended in addition to Navrokopi throughout Greece, the increased quantity and the reduced price for residents of paradoxical settlements. From this point of view - and I beg your pardon for the length of the answer - I think that it is possible with the investigation that you have carried out, but certainly with the programming that we have had and with the additional budget that we made this year, there is no need for individual scratching with self-consciousness because the needs have been met and there are no double standards in the forests. But if you have something more specific, I would be happy to talk about it in order to solve the local problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-08-S1-commons.u18	Mr. Georgios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-08-S1-commons.u19	Mr President, it is not exactly the way you said it, and of course it is not your fault. Let me tell you that before, for the individual needs of the Kilkis Forest, 400,000 euros were given. For people to understand, with this money, the forests were bound together, and then from there they bought at a reduced price from the cooperatives, the inhabitants of mountainous and paradoxical areas. Unfortunately, since the time of the crisis this amount began to fall again this year for the Kilkis Forestry - Guenissa Forestry is another case, I will tell you afterwards - it was only 36,000 out of 400,000. After my own speech - and I badly say it, but I have to say it - there has been an additional funding two months ago and we have reached the sum of 51,000 that you mentioned...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-08-S1-commons.u20	I'm sorry, just to clarify it's 63,277 in Kilkis. Those are the numbers I have now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-08-S1-commons.u21	Good. So another 25,000 were given and this amount arrived. It's obviously what you're saying. In this way, the needs of the Mori region have been met at the last minute. However, the needs of many villages from Crusia have not been met. The Seventalofos, for example, is such a large village that I have received noisies. What's the matter? It is not a question of starting to talk about the villages one by one. But, certainly right now, in the area of Kilkis Forestry the individual needs of all the villages have not been met. Now look at what needs to be cleared up and taken as a direction for the relevant forestry services. This possibility of self-sufficientness, which the Guenish Forestry uses and depletes, means, Mr President, that, when there are no money, no credits, it gives the Forestry the right to cut down, bend the cooperatives, and buy directly from the cooperatives at a reduced price, under the supervision and care of the relevant Forestry. So, we don't have credit? They go and buy directly from the cooperatives. So what has been implemented for many years in the Goumenissa Forestry area, unfortunately, does not apply to the Kilkis Forestry area for reasons I do not want to mention here. So what's the matter? I am interested in meeting the individual needs of all residents. You were right to lower the price. However, given that the appropriations are not sufficient, as with 63,000 cannot be covered for the twenty villages which are entitled to individual timber in the Kilkis Forestry area, it must be clear to you that, as a Ministry, where the appropriations allocated are not sufficient, this option that is lawful, which you have reiterated in substance with the last amendment you have made. In fact, the Ministry was forced to send a clarification to show that the possibility of self-confidence has not been abolished, as it is the only way to satisfy the individual needs of these people. I wouldn't be here today if there weren't any villages in Kilkis that haven't met their demands. Apparently the evidence you have for the full satisfaction of your needs is not accurate. You know, written requests are made. But when they know beforehand that there is no money - because that was the first impression - they did not ask for some communities. Then, when the additional funding came for the Murries, and those who hadn't taken because they thought they wouldn't make the money, while they were entitled to take it, they were the ones who were activated. But that is not right every year. We must find a solution that is lasting. This solution should be a clear direction towards all the forest offices, that they should exhaust the possibility of self-confidential coverage of individual needs, particularly where forest subsystems are being managed. Minister, when the resident of the village sees that a forest is indeed being harvested, he sees that the state has a profit from this logging, you understand how unjustly he feels when he is not entitled to take the few woods he needs for his winter. Especially in forest ecosystems, I think - and the law clearly provides - that it is a priority for individual needs to be met. I think we all agree that this should be the solution, so I would ask for the same actions in the future, so that we do not have the same phenomena of time. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-08-S1-commons.u22	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor. I don't take time because you said it all.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-08-S1-commons.u23	I did, but I'll talk to you for a minute. We must therefore make it clear that we have extended the right of citizens, particularly in the mountain areas and the ice-cream areas, to have access to more timber with a lower price. At the same time, there are two ways in which we can take this wood, where cooperatives are scratching and where citizens' decisions of intervention are being made for individual needs. Let me clarify, then, that under the law, where we have management studies, the forests under management are being organised by forest cooperatives. That's legal. It is legal, it is not altered to the level of a debate or a circular. Where there is no management study, a decision is made to scratch the population's complexes at the level of the population for the individual needs. So how do we answer the question, 'What do we do for the people close to forests that have a management study'? In reply: We are increasing the budget, and regardless of the budget, we are clarifying that priority is given to the reception of wood, firewood for individual needs where there is a management study and cooperation that local residents have. So from the management study a quantity of alpha is shaved, the one that is now being used for the individual needs of the citizens living in these villages in order not to underestimate those living next to the forests and not to hurt them, to protect them because their need is met and the commercial activity of the cooperatives is also covered. I think that this is how there is no grief for the people who see the forest shaved in their study with the cooperative. Cooperatives sell to the state in a way. We pay the costs for the individual needs of those people who are either in a social group or live in ice cream or cold conditions - I am referring to the figures we have made public, not full of ice in the whole winter - and then the cooperative trades in the other products of its timber. So that's how it solves so that there's no grief at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-08-S1-commons.u24	Would you allow me, Mr President, in breach of the procedure, for half a minute, to be clear?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-08-S1-commons.u25	Here, Mr Georgioda, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-08-S1-commons.u26	I fully agree, Minister, with regard to the direction, simply where the credit to these forest ecosystems that are being managed is not sufficient, to enable residents to buy directly from the cooperatives in the frozen...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-08-S1-commons.u27	Same thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-08-S1-commons.u28	It's not the same. The other must be given money from you, from the decentralised ones. Where the money from the decentralised associations, the captives, is not sufficient, to buy people directly from the cooperatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-08-S1-commons.u29	I should like to say, therefore, that because we made this decision this year, which also has a pilot nature, because we were extending it to all of Greece now the issue of low prices and the greatest quantity for people living in cold areas - I mean far more than urban groups - our political will is to fund all the needs of these people and not to have to pay for their cooperatives. It's a responsibility that the state has taken on, anyway. And this will obviously be done at the low price given by the ministerial decision. I think, however, that we have clarified that if there is no management study somewhere, our direction is to give the scratch epistaxy for individual needs. Where there is a management study, however, the cooperative will enter and give the inhabitants of the regions first, the state will cover its own percentage.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-08-S1-commons.u30	You said it, you said it. Because neither the government nor the opposition want Kilkis' residents to be cold, if there is any gap, practical engineer, one lawfully good for the other, if one has to come out, get it done. Thank you very much, Minister. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-08-S1-commons.u31	With the agreement of the House at 10.45 p.m. the sitting for the next Monday, 11 December 2017, at 17.30 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: legislative work, in accordance with the two agendas that have been distributed.
