ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS We will begin with the second with number 988/9-6/2017 and the second question of the new Republic MP Mr. Panagiotis (Northern) Mitarakis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'Is the abolition of the reduced rate of VAT on the islands of the North and East Aegean definitively abolishing the reduced rate of VAT?' The timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Catherine Papanatziou. Here, Mr Mitarakis, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, this is precisely the question of my question, if it is a final matter of abolishing the reduced rate of VAT in the islands of Lesbos, Chios, Samos and in the islands of Dodecanese, except Rhodes and Karpathos, which will apply in accordance with the legislation in force at 31/12-2017. I would remind you that the special status of protecting islands, which is also based on the Greek Constitution, was set up 20 years ago and stated that the islands would have a reduced rate of VAT of 30% to balance the increased transport costs, the increased cost of production of products and services on these islands. The SYRIZA Government, by letter sent by Mr. Tsipras to Mr. Juncker before the referendum, had proposed minimum fiscal adjustment measures, but one of which, unfortunately, since the first moment, was the abolition of VAT on the Aegean islands. Now, because of the refugee crisis, Greece, unilaterally against some, has decided to extend by one year the abolition of the islands affected by the refugee crisis until the end of this year. However, Mr Tsakalotos has speeded up by a letter he sent to the institutions to stress that this suspension will only be for one year and will not give any extension. I also note that the government, in the wonderful and doubtful countermeasures, did not even include VAT on the islands on the list you voted on recently. Finally, many lawyers believe that, if Greece blocks this special exemption scheme under the Community VAT Regulation, it is something that it cannot recover in the future. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So I am asking you, is it definitively that the reduced rate of VAT on the islands I mentioned before is abolished on 31-12-2017? If that happens, can it be overturned in the future? Have you received a legal opinion on this? Finally, what compensatory measures do you intend to take, for example, the transport equivalent you have been requesting for months, and nothing has been done about the islands affected not only by the economic crisis, but also by the refugee crisis? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Mrs. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Metarakis, first of all, I agree with you that the reduced rate of VAT was initially given as a compensation for the special conditions prevailing on our islands, mainly because of the geographical isolation and the distance of the islands from mainland Greece, with what these entail, among other things, the cost of the goods. The provisions of Laws 4334/2015 and 4336/2015 provide for the gradual abolition of reduced rates of VAT by 30% in the Aegean Islands until 31/12/2016. However, we would remind you that the provisions of Law No.4336/2015 have been binding in order to implement the agreement with the European Stability Mechanism and to ensure the country's uninterrupted financing, and that is why this law was passed by the overwhelming majority of Members. We have repeatedly stressed that the regulation of the abolition of the reduced VAT rates on the islands was a political necessity for the government and not a choice within the framework of the strictly required budgetary adjustment measures. In order not to be directly affected by all the Aegean islands, three steps were envisaged to abolish the reduced VAT, starting from 1-10-2015 until the definitive abolition from 1-1-2017. In particular, the provisions of Law No.4389/16 stated that the abolition of the reduction of the VAT rate occurred from 1-10-2015 on the islands of Thira, Mykonos, Naxos, Paros, Rhodes and Skiathos. Secondly, as from 1-6-2016, the islands of Syros, Thassos, Andros, Tinos, Karpathos, Milos, Skyros, Alonissos, Kes, Antiparos and Sifnos, while due to the natural disasters suffered, the law was extended to 1-1-2017. Thirdly, 1-1-2017 would also come to the islands of the country's eastern border. However, the provisions of Law 4446/16 regulate their stay at the reduced 30% rate of VAT up to 31/12/2017, precisely because of the refugee crisis and the negative effects on these islands because of the migration issue. This measure concerns the islands of Prefectures of Evros, Lesvos, Chios, Samos and Dodecanese, except Rhodes and Karpathos, which had already been subject to the standard VAT rate, Rhodes from 1-10-2015 and Karpathos from 1-6-2016. The selection of these islands was based on measurable, uniform and transparent criteria and, in particular, on the relief of their inhabitants, since these societies already have a great deal of weight and play an important role in the management of refugee flows. At the same time, our Government's will is to adopt appropriate and targeted measures to support island Greece. Moreover, the establishment of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy is exactly what this government is trying to implement specific island policies, contrary to what has been done by your governments and your co-governments for so many years, limiting island policy to deducting VAT rates. In any case, however, the Ministry of Finance monitors the effectiveness of the tax policy pursued and assesses its results. In this context, and given the budgetary constraints of the Greek economy, if necessary and feasible, we will make the necessary legislative arrangements, with a view to social justice and sustainable development. I submit the relevant replies to the Services of the Ministry of Finance and the Independent Public Income Authority.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, we agree that the special VAT arrangements on the islands were created to deal with the problems of geographical isolation and that this entails production costs. These conditions have not changed. From what I conclude from your prototype, and please correct me in your dentext, it is definitively abrogating the measure. You made no mention of an extension. Mr Chakalotos has already committed himself to the institutions that there will be no extension. You said no specific equivalent, which will apply 1-1-2018. Also, you did not respond to your great theoretical countermeasures of 7.5 billion. They didn't fit the islands at 7.5 billion, the few million that the reduced VAT rate costs, so you could tell the islanders? Not that they would believe they would be applied, but at least say it. I also disagree with you that the abolition of the reduced rate of VAT was part of the country's commitments to the institutions. Do you know why? Because when Mr. Varoufakis, at the time of the lionisms, said "I will accept minimal financial measures" and sent his letter to Mr. Yunker, in June 2015, to the minimum financial measures that the SYRIZA then accepted had also included the abolition of the reduced VAT rate on the islands before the Troika asked for it. It was your choice as the Ministry of Finance - the few that you were willing to accept - to sacrifice the islands. I would remind you that the Samara Government had been under severe pressure to abolish the reduced VAT rate and did not give in. We supported islandism in practice. Also, Minister, did you not answer me with a very specific question: if the reduced rate of VAT on the Aegean islands is abolished, which has been granted to Greece as an exception to European legislation, based on the opinion of the Ministry of Finance's law, is Greece able, in a few years' time, to reinstate the reduced rate or will it be a breach of the European acquis of European tax legislation? Finally, because you referred to the Ministry of Island Policy, recently at a conference held in Brussels, the Deputy Minister of Maritime Affairs, Mr Santorinios, pointed out that Greek Government is trying to introduce special tax incentives, such as low income tax on islands. Is there a government proposal, ready to be implemented? Because the islands count for weeks until the reduced rate is abolished. I do not think that the islands need a counterdotack for the immigration crisis. A crisis that was created with political responsibility. However, we need to bear in mind that the essential and permanent factors of the competitiveness of the islands are affected by increased production costs and there is a permanent need for a special tax regime established by the Government of New Democracy and you are now abolishing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u8	The abolition of the VAT rate on the islands affected by the refugee crisis has been suspended until the end of the year. They are really affected by the refugee crisis, and here, Mr Mitsarakis, I will disagree with you that the refugee crisis is due to the government. No way. If you dare say so, I think that all the Greek people and all the European Union should at least listen to your views on this matter. We all know and everyone knows where the problem is and where the war zone is. In any event, any extension of the application of the favourable scheme will be judged at that time on the basis of the financial data at the time and the actual conditions and needs of the islands concerned. Furthermore, we should note that Directive 2006/112, which incorporates Greece's right to apply a special VAT rate scheme, is still in force. Greece is under no circumstances dismissing its right. This is the answer of the Ministry's law. I would like to remind you here that the government through the Prime Minister - which you have falsely said before - has already announced the preparation of compensatory measures which will balance the losses suffered by the permanent inhabitants of the islands from the abolition of the special arrangements for reduced VAT rates. In fact, the Ministry of Finance, in cooperation with the Office of the State Secretary responsible for island affairs, is studying and planning specific economic measures, directly for islanders. As far as the part of your question about the alternative plans for the implementation of the so-called 'transport equivalent' is concerned, you should already know - and you may know it - from the relevant publications that the Ministry of Shipping and Islands Policy has proceeded through the Secretariat-General of Island Policy and in cooperation with the Aegean University in drawing up such studies, which are currently under way. Once all these studies have been completed, we will also proceed to all the measures which the Government intends to take in relation to island policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, just one clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Metarakis, for a few seconds, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u12	Madam Minister, I said I was politically responsible for the migratory crisis. I didn't say a government officer if you heard a government officer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u13	Thank you. The first question with number 4421/23-2017 of the circle of petitions - questions by the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP I Athens, New Democracy. Nikita Kaklamani, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, will be discussed. Mr. Kaklamani, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as you know, on the basis of the legislation in force, students who are studying for a second degree and who have been admitted to higher education by means of checklists are not entitled to a special ticket. The same difficulty is faced by students who study at the Open University. Of course, this matter did not arise on your day. It's a timeless and old problem. It employs strongly students and students belonging to the categories I mentioned earlier. However, the economic situation in which a large proportion of the citizens of the country have come and the feeling of law that the state has to defend make your intervention imperative in order to be treated equally between these students. I must remind you here that this is not the first time that we have been discussing the issue of a reduced ticket to the Chamber. On 9 February I happened to chair when you were defending a bill, and I raised the matter by pointing out the injustice that exists. Then you gave me an answer that gave me hopes for these children, as you said: "I am pleased, Mr President, because I see you today in a radical and agonist mood, so we should also note it publicly. Mr President, you are right about what you said. It has to be solved. We're exploring it." Since, however, several months have passed since and no new one has emerged, the year will end, so in two or three months the new one will begin. That's why I'm reintroducing it. Indeed, I found that on the same subject in April 2015 15 SYRIZA colleagues, including your current State Secretary, Mr Baxvanakis, had asked Mr Baltas the same question at that time. He replied to them about the way you answered, that you find it fair and as a government you are investigating it, with a view to finding a solution. So the question is if we have any news. It is certain that you will have the support of the House on this matter. I know that maybe the stumbling block is the Syntagma Square, i mean the General Accounting Office. There, perhaps, if we are all pressing together, we can find a solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u16	First of all, someone needs to be aware of their enthusiasm when you preside over, because everything I see is recorded. I would repeat that it is a fair request. In fact, in a law that we passed in 2016, children, who enter rankings, are entitled to writings, which was very important. Secondly, the Ministry of Education makes contracts with the urban bus organizations, metro etc. The total of these contracts is about 30 million for all of Greece. We have calculated that there should be about twenty thousand students who are in rankings. It is obvious that they will be included, but to be integrated it has nothing to do with the General Accounting Office of the State as long as the renegotiation of the contracts. As you can see, it is very difficult to agree with these agencies - we have agreed, but we are seeing it again - on what assumptions are for calculating student mobility costs. Because, surely all students don't go to all the courses every day, for example, we have weekends, etc. A very small differentiation brings with it a very big problem. That's why we said - and it's not just about your question, but obviously your question brings it to the news - we put all the students on the count. That is, not to be regarded as undergraduate graduates, as they too, and obviously not the Open University. There you can understand that there are other reasons that are even more complicated. When the contracts are concluded with the agencies, it will certainly also be the calculation of these people and will then take the pass. I hope that, at the beginning of the new year, negotiations with the agencies will be completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kaklamani, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u18	First of all, I consider it satisfactory, Minister, to answer your question, knowing as well your sensitivity as an academic. And I'm glad that the State General Accounting Office is not involved. I mentioned it on how the budgets of the ministries are. It starts and ends there. In that sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u19	I get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u20	Now, because I have a little time to go to another question, about another matter that I've been to you since 23 March. And because you know this and you have dealt with it, instead of coming back to the Chamber and bringing you in next week - because you are coming - I put it now and if you want to answer me, as it is another question. It concerns, as you know, the history of many LAG members and the history of the PPE, the special account. In 1997, for the first time, the obligation to pay a percentage of the remuneration of their profession, who receive all the EMIs of the country, was introduced for the benefit of the EMIs. The above percentage was initially set at 20% - and I am glad that the Secretary of State for Finance will hear it - on the pay from the exercise of all kinds of work, but then it has been amended too many times. This retention had from the outset the notion of strengthening the specific search account by services provided within the PCI area. However, in essence, under the above provision and the amendments which have been made to date, it is only in the light of the university status of those who pursue the freedom of establishment who are not part of the institution that participated in their equipment and do not participate in their day-to-day work. In order to avoid much of it, a large number of ICPs then appealed to the Council of State, in 2002, for unconstitutionality of the law. After many years, as it is usually done and we all know that recently, in 2015, the decision of the Council of State that did not justify them was made, on the contrary, told them that: "No, the law is constitutional" with a reasoning that you or I are not judging. Now, what happened? The legal ICPs, which are well aware of the legal issues and always find ways of escape, made companies between themselves and those members of the ICPs, the main reason - and I do well - did not judge it - were given a solution to give 20% only. However, all the rest of us are now still here to pay great sums, which they cannot do, and the question is whether we can make an amendment - which I believe will be supported by many of Parliament's wings - to which they too will be included in the special regime of 20%. My opinion, Minister, is that the state will not take money either, and they will be regarded as having a huge problem, and if we help them with this amendment, which, when it comes - I repeat - I will support it and tell you, the state will take money - so I said that I am glad that the State will hear it. It will probably not get what is originally foreseen by the law, but if you want to 'ethical' it may be a problem for those colleagues who have not paid, but these colleagues will also fulfil their obligations without feeling that they are tax seekers, because they are actually not. If you are aware of this and have dealt with you and you can give me an answer in principle - because I think they have met the Secretary-General of the Ministry on this subject - I would like to hear it, with the wish that the amendment should come at some point and that we should vote on it in the House and resolve the matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, it is two in one today with Mr Kaklamani.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u23	I said it in the first place, and I told you if you want to answer it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u24	Yeah, I'll answer you because I know that. There's a legal issue and a moral issue. On the legal issue, I fully agree with you, because I think that more suffering will not lead anywhere. Money will not be taken, and it would be a way to close this little sad story. What we mean is a sad story: there are colleagues in the university - and you know that because we are both from the university - who have paid what they have to pay for. So not all of us should vote for it in this House, but we should also have an argument for the Members who will come well and who will say: 'Hey, we have paid for so many years in good time. Will you return us back to what we have paid to some extent'? It's not personal. I think you shared it, too. The political will is to close it down. But we must close it in a way that is not regarded as a reward, even after many years, for people - in my opinion - who have acquired their value because of their university status in their profession and who have not been consistent with their obligations at the university. So I say that there are some technical and legal problems. I'm sure we'll solve it and put it in the tertiary education bill. I ask for the understanding of the colleagues who were really very well in their duties.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u26	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u27	Tell me what you want, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u28	We have said this several times in the Conference of Presidents. It is a timely question of mine, which has not been answered since April, which concerns the Minister of Education. I'd like to, please, sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u29	Mr Papapa, you must know that I have been notified by Mr Kalogeros, the Secretary-General of the Government, of which timely questions will be answered today and which will not. Your question will not be discussed on the basis of what...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u30	Since you are a member of the Conference of Presidents and we have referred to this problem many times, my secretary received a call Friday from the Secretary-General's secretaries and told us a dry one: 'Your question will not be discussed'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u31	That's the way it does.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u32	Since April this question...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u33	Mr. Pappa, wait a minute, let's get in touch. To express your protest because your question is delayed I understand it and I give you the opportunity to do so by way of derogation from the Rules of Procedure, but to put it as a question and to discuss it, it is excluded. It will be an absolute violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u34	No, I'm not going to ask the question. I will say that since April the question that has been asked to the Ministry of Education has been raised. At times the Ministry of Education said the Minister has a workload. I mentioned it once in a draft law debate. She didn't answer me back then. It concerns the fulfilment of the "matrix of the nation". After I mention the Fourth National Assembly, the Royal Decree, etc....
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u35	Don't tell your question now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u36	No, no. After I mention...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u37	It can't be discussed. Express your objection and your protest, and that's it. I cannot give you the floor to address it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u38	I want the Minister to tell us why he's deceiving... Mr President, we have discussed this too many times.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u39	Mr Pappa, you cannot address a question that will not be discussed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u40	Mr President, give me a minute. I'm not talking about the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u41	The Minister won't answer you, and that's not right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u42	Why does Mr Gavroglou literally mock parliamentary control and, as of April, does not come to answer the specific question concerning the "matrix of the nation"?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u43	Okay. Good, you've expressed your objection. If he wants, Mr. Gabroglou will comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u44	I will answer why Mr Gavroglou does not want to comment, because it is about the "step of the nation"...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u45	But respect the Bureau. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u46	Mr. Gabroglou is mocking us and he doesn't answer why he has nothing to say on the subject and why - you won't take this as a humiliation - he's a reduced national and religious conscience.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u47	Deal, okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u48	I can explain it: On his website, Mr. Gavroglou writes...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u49	I do not allow you to continue, Mr. Pappa. Please do not write all the following in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u50	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u51	You can't go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u52	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u53	You can't go on. Mr. Poppa, you won't speak, you don't want to...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u54	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u55	Yes, we did. Minister, do you want to comment or go further?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u56	First of all, I do not want to comment on the things that have been said. His Beatitude Archbishop Mr. Ieronymos on March 9, 2017, after the Holy Synod and during the presentation of a book, said, among other things, that "we have been tired of this famous theme of the "stop of the nation". It covers me completely as a statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u57	Good. It was a commentary. The second question under number 987/9-6-2017 of the New Democracy MP, George Stylios, will be discussed now with the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Following the school units of mountain, remote and island regions". Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u58	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I refer to an issue relating to school units, the annexes to municipal schools of mountain, remote and island regions. Minister, your Ministry issued a circular at the beginning of May on "Scheduling Actions for the educational work of primary schools for the 2017-2018 school year - planning a full-day program". Paragraph 10 of that circular expressly states that there is no provision for the operation of annexes to municipal schools. Minister, these annexes to the municipal schools most serve students in the first grades of municipal schools in islands, mountainous and remote areas of our country. If they are interrupted, small children will be invited daily to travel long distances. Often in these areas the road network is difficult and risky. In particular, during the winter months in a number of cases there are strong weather phenomena that make the movement banning. The negative effects on the educational and educational process of small pupils, when they are called upon to move on a daily basis under these conditions, are evident. On the basis of the above, you ask, Minister: Are you going to issue a new ministerial decision allowing municipal schools to function? Do you intend to provide a solution to the educational and educational needs of young people? In Arta, in the Municipality of Central Tzoumerkos, two annexes were in operation in the previous years, until last year in the Local Community of Agnadon and the Local Community of Lower Athmanio. You understand that there is a great deal of concern to parents for next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u60	First of all, you know that there is a serious issue with the institutional framework for the operation of the annexes and teaching and education is not the right thing to do. We, therefore, do not want to continue with this situation. On the contrary, we want to ensure in any better way that normal schools are operated, perhaps short-sighted, which will now be done all the few days, or through new municipalities, because this solution, which was from 2012 to 2013, was a solution that was completely short-sighted, which was assessed and evaluated as not working properly. So do not insist on continuing these annexes, rather than establishing normal schools, even small-scale ones, to deal with these problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u62	I would like some clarifications. I raised an issue which is objective and clear. The conditions in which these students are invited to cope are not the same as the conditions called other children in the major cities, in Athens, in the town centers, etc. This is also a pedagogical factor that you must take to it very seriously, Minister. So I ask: if you intend to replace the term 'concepts' than to create new schools, one-off, then your answer is acceptable. I wish you could move on as soon as possible to give a solution and a response to the agony of all these parents, to the agony of children who do not know where they will be next year, but also to the specific local communities where the whole family will be forced to relocate because he will not have a school to take his children. He's got to send them somewhere somewhere to do it. So you realise that of these villages, which I have spoken about - the Netherlands and Agnada - every day children of the first, second, third grade over half an hour must be moved on a mountainous road with turns and difficulties. I understand and I am sure the same applies to many small islands. So, then, a state as it is ours cannot give a solution and pedagogics, but can also be supported economically and technically with regard to these children? You understand that there is also a question of the desolation of the Greek region. Please, Minister, give an explanation of how you understand it. I'm not saying it's the best institution that ever existed and I wish we had something better. However, we do not go to dismantling because we cannot achieve 100%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u63	The Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Stile, you may know that this year, since September, for the first time, for the first time, for eight hundred thirty-seven short-seven schools will be all day long. We therefore want to strengthen the few schools that are in the ravages of our country. While there may be a dimension to many of our fellow citizens that these are downgraded, they must be closed, and so on, we consider the very opposite, precisely so that we can deal with the problems you have mentioned. The second thing with which I fully agree with you is that our fellow citizens should listen to this: in our discussions with our institutions and our discussions with the OECD, we are trying to guarantee - and in many cases we have secured it, we have still to see in particular how this will be expressed - that the issue of geography in our country is not something natural, but that is social and political. I mean, no matter how much the school costs us in Kastelorizo, no matter how much the school costs us in Agathonisi, we'll support it no matter what. It's over and out. It is not involved in efficacy calculations, tweezers, tweezers, etc. So the issue of geography in our country is a deeply political issue and we are trying to convince a world, particularly in Europe, that the discussions that are also taking place on permanent appointments and the increase in funding, etc., cannot obey models which are of simple effectiveness, but must also enter such parameters. So I agree with you that it is one thing that concerns us. Within the existing financial possibilities, we are really trying to do everything we can and above all by ensuring quality.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Minister. Next is the third with number 974/6-2017, the first question of the Achaias MP of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: ‘Understood and illegal discrimination between candidates from Partners of Educational Personnel (EPC) in the notices of the Greek Open University (EPC)’. Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you will recall that we had a debate here two months ago in the context of parliamentary scrutiny of the criteria established by the Management Committee of the OSH in the notice on cooperating scientific staff. You will remember, of course, that at that time I had considered as unconstitutional and illegal the criteria, particularly those concerning the availability and negative moleculosis, as well as the time of the research project. You were placed in the debate and were in favour of the academicity of these criteria, assuming that these criteria are quite correct, because this will also form import conditions to the fellow scientific staff of young people who would have more availability, who would have a positive moleculosis, more moleculosis than others and could have proved their research work through this process. Not a few weeks have passed since this debate and the Board of Directors of the Open University has made a new statement on the theme "Natural Sciences", where as magically the specific criteria disappear, they are omitted. There is no longer a criterion of availability for the new notice starting on 8 May and ending on 29 May 2017 and there is no criteria for negative moleculosis. Also, the 10-year research activity becomes five years old and within it is judged the PLP member, the candidate to become a collaborative scientific staff, thus forming two-speed candidates: candidates who were in the old process, who lasted until April and candidates who are in the new process, not the same criteria. This therefore creates inequality in the crisis of these candidates. It also creates what I said last time, either on one occasion or on the other, illegal and arbitrary procedures, which have been decided by the management committee. I think we need a position here, because both of them can't happen. Whether these criteria are academically, and they must be applied to the other category, they should not apply the new ones, which, in my opinion, rightly did. The candidates, however, who will have recourse to the courts, must know what the Ministry's attitude is.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u68	I am impressed by your obsession to return to the same issues. The essence of the problem is how members will be chosen at the Greek Open University, in order to increase the accessibility of young scientists. Let us both accept - why have you not answered this, although I asked you and last time - how is it a patheticness of the system that 75% of the paid PLP staff at the Hellenic Open University are at the same time teachers at the same time in the other universities? That's not right, I think. It's not right on many levels. We know how to make the choice. The choice is based on how much teaching experience one has, how many publications etc. It is essentially a moleculosis, it is not a fundamental evaluation of the dossiers. So if we are all inclined to open up our foundations for young scientists, etc., we must state it in practice as well. So the Open University decided that in the sciences he wants to choose in this way. Our question, then, is not whether one piece is constitutional or if the other part is not, etc., but whether decisions in the whole PSUR help open up the PSUR to young scientists. In this also needs a policy commitment in here to see people out there if we really mean all this with young scientists, unless we mean it and try to find thousands of ways to get additional wages, which they already work on. I am not saying that he does not deserve the additional salary they receive, but there is an issue in the academic community today about the opportunities for access to that of young scientists. How's that gonna happen? I think the Open University is making a very systematic effort to get away from the old norms and to be able to engage in a fundamental opening to the new scientists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Papatheodorou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u70	You're right, Minister. I'm obsessed with legality. So let us take two young scientists who have not had the opportunity to work at the university so far. One works in Greek Culture or in European Culture or in the Organization and Business Administration and the other wants to be a candidate in the Natural Sciences. The first, therefore, will be recruited according to the criteria established by the Hellenic University - where there is negative moleculosis - and the second, because it has thought, because it has decided that it will take him on other criteria, in essence with the criteria that we considered to be unconstitutional last time, and you have professed that they are academic and can be applied. This is the definition of illegal and discrimination between candidates at the same university. Unfortunately, Minister, I am really going to displease you - it does not have the right for the management committee to have such practices. And - because I recognize that you understand the issues - we're talking about young scientists. We're not talking about LPIs or teachers who have double wages. In order not to get into these procedures, there are, if you like, other kinds of discussions that we could open. But we're talking about scientists themselves. So one had the misfortune of being a candidate in alpha thematic unit and the other being a candidate in beta theme, asking one of the certificates of written research activity for ten years and the other for only five years. Minister, these things can't happen because that will lead - and you know it - to the discount. This notice will be abolished and this will have a negative impact on students and teachers. Because I believe that you are also concerned with the Open University - as I am doing - not just because it has its seat in Patras, I would like to ask you - you will know that because the procedure is being completed - and something complementary that is outside this particular question. You know that of the two hundred and thirty-five members of the administration of the Open University, ninety-four will complete the contract, which we voted on last year, on 30 June. We are talking about two hundred families in Patras, families of people who will lose their jobs, and so far many of them have had contracts with the university for ten and fifteen years. So you understand - and I conclude with this - that the Greek Open University from the next day, from July 1st, will not be able to function either to make the selection of PLN members nor to open it in September. So the self-evident question - and I am obliged to put it to you, because we are in parliamentary control today - is: has the Ministry of Education found a solution to how these administrative officials will be more permanent after 30 June? If there is no, then the whole debate we are having today just doesn't make any sense. The university will not be able to operate a day longer, since 85% -90% of its employees will be outside the working environment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u71	Thank you very much. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u72	Mr President, as you can see, we have additional questions today.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u73	Yeah, but it's excellent the laconity they're responding to. You are the pleasure of the Bureau, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u74	I am very pleased about this, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u75	Thank you! Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u76	So let's start with the first one. Mr Colleagues, the first has nothing to do with this - I fear you have not understood it - in two different ways in which young scientists will be recruited. It is about two different ways in which people will be discouraged for too many years at the Open University.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u77	That's great, because you're heard by the candidates.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u78	Candidates listen to me, good. Indeed, to accept that the Open University is one of the few places that these people can have first contact with a teaching process. The second thing you said is very serious. First of all, we should know that all these were appointments that were not made by the SYRIZA Government.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u79	They were 15 years ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u80	That's right. Indeed, if you remember, last year there was an effort and the conventions were extended. We are in agreement with the Ministry of Administrative Reform and we are almost certain - almost certain, some legal problems need to be solved - that by 30 June we will have announced the solution, because it will be included in the higher education bill, which can be passed at the beginning of July. It is a complex problem - you know - relating to contracts. These contracts cannot be made indefinitely, they must also involve the AACC. We are trying to find a solution aimed, firstly, at not losing one's job, because people also have huge know-how beyond anything else, and secondly, at recognising that so many years people have provided their services through these contracts. We are pretty sure that this will be resolved.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Minister. Next, the fifth under number 1023-13-6-2017, a topical question for the first cycle of MP I of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the non- abolition or suspension of the 12th Municipal School of Thessaloniki. Mr. Delis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President. As the President has said in his address to the question, the question raised today concerns the most basic, perhaps most fundamental condition for the functioning of an educational system, namely the question of school accommodation - it is not without - and in particular the question of the school roof of the 12th Municipal School of Thessaloniki. When we talk about a school, Minister, we are, of course, talking about a school that has students. This one has about a hundred twenty - year - olds, corresponding to more than a hundred families. This school is located in a fatal position, perhaps at the edge of the seafront of the new beach of Thessaloniki, just in front of the modern Concert Hall of Music. According to the services of the Municipality of Thessaloniki, which confirm that it is inappropriate from now on for use and having in mind the vertical views of the administration of the Municipality of Thessaloniki that this building, this building cannot function, these students and these families live in an uncertainty – we are in June, closed the schools, but September is not far - for exactly what will happen with their school. So where are these kids going in September? Because there are too many sounds and there are rumours about dispersal of these students in schools in the region, to say here that these schools are already overnumbered, that is, they don't fit any additional students. In any case, Minister, you know that any suspension of a school's operation or dispersal of the students of this school leads to Greek bells demanding their own roof. A roof lost since 2004, which was not his, because it was housed in a house that still belonged to the Church of Greece. So the question - and that is what we are asking you and we want an answer because it is also the Ministry of Education - is what you will do, so that the school can continue to function on its own, as a school unit, as well as as as a school unit, so that children do not disperse to the schools in the surrounding area and that all those necessary conditions are ensured for the smooth functioning of this school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u84	This school, Mr. Delis, along with the 27th High School, and the 12th High School, was one of the schools that had suffered enormous damage to the 1978 earthquake. Today, while high school and high school have been transported, especially the 12th grade is inappropriate. The municipality has other buildings where this school can work, it's committed and we're in contact to see what's going to happen. But I would also like to see your contribution here on a very serious issue that has arisen in school buildings. As you know, municipal schools buildings are the responsibility of the municipalities. Some municipalities, in fact, have operated exemplaryly, but some municipalities have completely ignored this responsibility. They sometimes pay the operating expenses. But when you have the responsibility of a building, you don't only have the responsibility for operating expenses, you have the responsibility to record damage, see what happens in this building, etc. I have asked many municipalities to give me their planning for the future of various buildings. Some municipalities, I insist, are exemplary but some municipalities are in a state that is not allowed. I don't want to name them, but I'm going to have to at some point name these municipalities. I therefore call on all municipalities, irrespective of their financial resources, to get into a programming logic for what they will do with buildings. Because in five years' time the damages, or the maintenance needs of buildings, may be such that we no longer have the potential to reverse the situation in too many schools. With regard to the 12th Municipal School, then, I think we need to solve it with the Municipality of Thessaloniki, which states that it has other buildings - because this one has very serious damage - and within the possibilities offered, we need to find a solution immediately. I agree with you that children should not break and go to other schools etc. However, we have been contacted and they have replied that they will certainly tell us very specifically how the 12th grade is going to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Delia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u86	Minister, you have not committed yourself - you can do it in your dentistry - that the operation of the school will not be suspended or dispersed - because this is the responsibility of the Ministry of Education, it is not the Municipality of Thessaloniki or any municipality - and we consider it to be quite vague, saying that there are some contacts between the Ministry and the Municipality of Thessaloniki and we are looking for some solutions. Our experience tells us that the solutions proposed so far to parents were in schools quite distant from the area. In any case the responsibilities, of course, of the municipality of Thessaloniki in recent years, which, while knowing the problem, has not done anything about the housing of this school and the government, because you are not government since yesterday but about two and a half years ago. The issue was also raised in a question to your predecessor Mr Baltas, who even replied that there is no programme - he says - for that school, namely the responsibility of the municipality and the state, I think you share that responsibility on this particular issue of school roofing. In any case, what we want to tell you, Minister, is that there is time. A temporary solution must be given, we say in the same place as the school is currently operating. I spoke earlier about this school's fatality because it is in a place that is quite good for her. We hear things are going to become a green area. We cannot understand why a green space with a school cannot be combined. Where is the inconsistency of this relationship? I'm barely there. And there could, of course, also be a school building. There may be a temporary solution there, but the municipality and the state, in particular the Ministry of Education, must take care to ensure that a definitive solution is given so that we do not have the same issue every year. Now, of course, on the more general issue you raised on the question of school accommodation, I think that government policy is little convincing, as to what solution it will give, because it is well known that the contraction of the School Buildings Agency - the UCLAF now operating on its limits - is a public service that can no longer respond to the work that it has done in previous years, precisely because of the lack of staff, but also because of the legislative framework that has been established. Because parents are listening to us right now, Minister, to this school, I think you should make a commitment that this school will not stop working and that the solution to be given, both temporary and final, will involve school as a whole as a school with its students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u88	The school has suffered very serious damage, without the government being responsible, because these damages have not been dealt with in time. We have no way of saying that it will continue to work unless we are sure of the suitability of the building in principle. We can't play with them. So that's why I'm telling you that we're in contact with the municipality so that the municipality can commit itself to a timeline, obviously to find a solution next academic year. But if the municipality doesn't do that, if we can't deal with them within a timescale, then we can't take that responsibility. I'm sure the schools will work. These kids are going to try to go elsewhere. The essential thing, however, is to ensure both the quality and the safety of children. We cannot play with these issues. That is why I have answered you as I have said, and that is why I insist that this is a question which you should also ask the local government in another way to see what they say. We do everything we can.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u89	We've already done it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u90	Good, I'm really glad.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Minister. The first question will be discussed now under number 1020/13-2017 in the second cycle of the Parliamentary Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Chrysula Katsavras - Siropoulou to the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The institution and functioning of the School Libraries". My colleague has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, access to knowledge, to the proper book and to the appropriate teaching staff is a fundamental right for every child. Modern educational perceptions place the library in general and the School Library in particular at the top of the research and education process. If we want to ensure for our youth a modern, open, liberative, democratic public school, with equal educational opportunities for all children, it is the School Library that can take this multidimensional role. Any educational system that seeks to reform school education and connect with new teaching and apprenticeship approaches is doomed to fail if it is not supported by a good network of School Libraries. In the case of School Librarys, the pathogens of Greek post-political society are mirrored by tragic deficiencies and incomplete efforts, amateurs and failures, absence of a programme and despite any legislative arrangements, the absence of organised and uninterrupted operation and their connection to the educational process. In previous years, even in times of crisis, primary education was excluded from the creation of School Librarys. The Thousands of School Librarys founded and still alive in primary schools throughout the country were created and operated thanks to the passion and sensitivity of some teachers and the assistance of parents' associations, local bodies and donors, but not usually in line with the specifications of a modern library. In secondary education last decade, a large number of School Librarys were created, seven hundred fifty-seven across Greece, according to international standards, with an ambitious project funded by the European Union through the "Education and Home Training" Operational Programme. The programme was exemplary with a number of actions and actions that brought books to the young people. In the years of the crisis, the institution was deceived and the seven hundred and fifty - seven libraries were left to their fate. Most of them are locked in or down, while the state ceased to be interested in their maintenance and renewal in order to save educational staff, since the staff trained returned to its place. In view of the above, I ask you, Minister: first, you are visionary and planning a better school. At this school, what's the position of the School Library? Secondly, you announced an extension of the institution of libraries to primary education, the establishment of a network of school libraries and their connection to all schools in Greece. Is their staff planned, as well as the continued renewal of their material with the resources of the Ministry? Thirdly, is there any evidence of the real situation in which the seven hundred and seventy-seven School Librarys, material, equipment, spaces and what do you intend to do about their immediate reopening? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u94	I am pleased that Mrs Katsavria, with an incredible systematicity, wants to remind us of this fundamental institution not only in education but also in society. You're right. Libraries in recent years have suffered a peculiar deception when at the same time the libraries space has shown incredible signs of recovery. So let's start from the National Library, now in the new places, let's start from the Library award in Veria by Bill Gates Foundation, etc.. Let's see some numbers and answer your question. You mentioned this, too, and I would like to mention it by stressing that we will immediately adopt - it is ready - the thousands of libraries in primary schools, which have been set up on the initiative of teachers. It has an interest and it has an interest when we say that teachers do nothing that in schools there is nothing going on, etc. Thousand schools, and it's not just a thousand, it's a bit more than a thousand...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u95	Thirty-three hundred.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u96	Thirty-three hundred. It's teachers' initiatives that have formed library spaces. As you know, perhaps better than me, the library spaces that have shaped are not only spaces that you go and read a book, it is a more complex content of a modern library. We must welcome that, and that is why we are establishing it. The second is the network of libraries, which will be connected to the National Library of Greece. This will greatly upgrade public and municipal libraries. The system has already started to function and is one of many silent successes of the National Library of Greece and the connection and the continuing supply. Two things to which the House could also play a very positive role are: firstly, librarians should be hired. To say this, of course, as a complaint in this House, does not lead us anywhere, but it is clear that if we want a fundamental upgrade, there must be the recruitment of librarians and it is within the general recruitment programme. It's one of our first priorities, though. But the second very serious one - and this House can indeed play a decisive role - is the formation of these new areas. I am not talking about the architectural configuration but about the contents of a modern library. What does a modern library mean? Is it one thing that is composed exclusively around the book or is it a much more open space in society, where the book is obviously one of the most important elements of its identity but is not exhausted in it? This, I think, is also a search for society as a whole, and internationally in Greece, for how these spaces will come to life in a new reality, which has influenced the character of the book itself. These are questions to which there are no ready-to-date answers. But they are questions to which many librarians, many people who have a little bit of libraries, have been bent. We are sure that we will slowly, as we have such indications, have some new and fresh solutions to the issue you are addressing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Minister. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister, for the answer. We soon expect effective actions from the Ministry, so that the institution of the School Library is strengthened and an important tool of the educational process. Minister, as you said, the term "School Library" thanks to the rapid technological and cultural developments and to new views on education today refers to an educational environment of a new type which represents much more than a mere storage, sorting, recording and lending of books. The library can act as a lever for support and enhancement of the educational process and as a creative platform for exchanges of views, through which librarians and teachers work collaboratively, can raise the level of their students and strengthen their active participation. The creation and operation of a rich collection of information sources with multi-formal materials and communication services in each school unit marks a different concept for the School Library and its role. Inside the Library, knowledge will be assimilated, but will also be created by the use of many and modern means, supporting and enriching the taught objects and various school activities. It will cover the basic interests of all children and will provide valid and responsible information on the problems they are concerned with in their ex-school life. But it is easy to understand that it is not just the establishment of a modern school library. In order to fulfil its role in this new educational environment, its sustainability must be guaranteed. This will happen if the School Library is a live cell of the school, if it is organised and organically integrated into the operation of the day-to-day education process, if resources are provided for the continuous renewal of their material and if it guarantees its proper and stable staff. Today's school needs a library outside the logic of the museum object, which will contribute to the dynamic development of education in an attractive environment constantly improving. The School Library must support the school's detailed program, that is, it must be a tool for the teacher and the student in his learning course and, at the same time, to cultivate the relationship of the child with the book to become a love relationship that will offer him joy and satisfaction. We must not forget that the contact of children with the book from the very young age, as well as the actions of conscientiousness in school and libraries create future readers, i.e. active citizens. At a time when public school is being taken from everywhere and education passes one of the biggest crises, libraries, Minister, especially in the region, can become live spaces of knowledge, creativity and culture for students, teachers, parents and the wider local society, operating as open access and communication areas. A school library must act as a place of learning, as a place of entertainment and as a place of cultural information for its members. It is imperative, therefore, that the state proceed directly to the implementation of the institution of the School Library, in accordance with modern standards for its development and operation, in terms of its philosophy, its development and the planning of its actions. The necessary conditions are to modernise the existing legislation, to provide for a special hall in the new teachings, to address housing problems in the existing ones and to meet the economic needs for its proper functioning. Minister, the School Library, with its services and the wealth of its means and sources of information, must find its place in Greek public education and with the appropriate steps to be able to stand up to the course of today's school and to support both the teacher and the student. The indifference with which the subject has been dealt with in the past few years has deprived the culture of library and research within it of generations, so that statistics today speak of young people who are researching only through digital media, without exploiting the enormous wealth of libraries, as well as skilled staff. The modern open democratic school of the 21st century can create it, because we have passion and knowledge and, above all, because we have a vision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u100	It is clear that I agree with all of Mrs Katsavria's findings and proposals. I would like to add the following: First, the libraries, unfortunately, have been synonymous with storage spaces for many years, and this has discouraged not only students and students, but too many times and teachers from being dynamically involved with the library. Slowly changing this climate, because it has changed in the last decade certainly in a completely dramatic way something in school life, and that is that the relationship between information and knowledge has been redefined. For many hundreds of years they were almost identified. Today, access to information has gained another practice than access to knowledge. This redefinition of the relationship between information and knowledge begins to appear in the way libraries function and function. And here there is a great deal of room for teachers' initiatives, which we have from all over Greece. For example, in the thematic week that took place in high school and often in the various work done by children, it seems that the library plays a central role. Of course, in order to do this, we are coming back to our teachers who are trying today - and they have done so with a moving effect - to keep a system upright. We thank them. Indeed, since last year, you know that we've been taking very specific measures to make life normal at school. Part of the normalization is the emergence of libraries in schools.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u102	Mr President, on a point of order for a minute, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u103	On what matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u104	I'll explain right away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u105	You have the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u106	Thank you. Mr President, for today it was planned in the second cycle of questions to discuss a timely question to the Minister of Health about the Second Pathological Clinic of Volos Hospital. I would like to inform you that I have received knowledge of the postponement of the question just a few minutes before the topical and urgent debate begins. I would like you to convey to the President of Parliament and to the Conference of Presidents that it can certainly be provided by the Rules of Procedure for Members to be notified even on the day of the debate, but that is also uncooperative and is not at all convenient for the regional parliamentarians who move hundreds of kilometres, often having a single parliamentary obligation, such as this debate on a topical question, particularly when the day is Monday. We all know that there is one programming, and we have to be in our regions, and I cannot believe that the ministers cannot regulate their agenda either. I would therefore ask you, Mr President, to convey these concerns and those points and one more reason. It changed the system of parliamentary control with the aim of all of us discussing further questions. This question for a second week, with the same parliamentary control system, has not been debated again. Of course, I do not see that the Minister for Health may be faced with some extraordinary obligations, it is also a difficult ministry, but I think that Members should be informed and not troubled in this way, especially when it comes to so serious social issues relating to local communities. I hope that you will pass on these remarks, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr. Buquoir. You're right. You know that many times a question may need to be postponed and not debated for certain reasons, but that you have been notified a few minutes before the start of the procedure, that is a problem. You're right. I shall convey it to the Conference of Presidents as well, and I hope that we will have an answer covering your objection, which is justified.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u108	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, I have some requests for permission. MEP I Thessaloniki Mr Markos Bolaris asks for permission from a short-day absence from June 20th to June 30th 2017 abroad for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u110	The House therefore approved the requested permission. MEP Kozanis Georgios Kasapidis requests permission from a short-day absence for a transition to Albania from 16 June to 17 June 2017. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u111	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice is tabling its report in the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: "I) Driving and adapting Greek legislation to the Warsaw Convention of 16 May 2005 on legalising, detecting, seizing and confiscation of proceeds from criminal activities and financing terrorism, incorporating A - D 2003/577/JHA, A - Π 2005/212/JHA, A - Π 2006/783/JHA, as amended by A - Π 2009/299/JHA and Directive 2014/42/EU, II) Conditions for the placement of minors in an institution or a donor family from and to Member States of the European Union under Article 56 of Regulation No. Council Regulation (EC) No 2201/2003 of 27 November 2003 on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matrimonial matters and in matters of parental responsibility, repealing Regulation (EC) No 1347/2000, III) Incorporating Directive 2013/48/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2013 on the right of access to a lawyer in criminal proceedings and a procedure for the implementation of the European arrestwarrant , as well as on the right of information for third parties in the event of his or herfreedom , and on the right to communicate with third persons and consular authorities during the deprivation offreedom ,IV ) Incorporation of Directive2012/29/ EU on minimum standards for therights , support and protection of victims of crime and replacing Council Decision2001/220/JHA.’ We will not discuss the first question with number 990-12-2017 of the First Cycle of the Thessaloniki Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "First Camp Kodra Kalamarias - East Thessaloniki: A demonstration of the area in a super-local park", due to the absence of the relevant Minister abroad. Mr. Panos Kammenos makes an official visit to Paris. The fourth under number 933/2-6-2017 topical question by MP II Athens of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdus to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, concerning the conspiracy of children, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the relevant ministers and will be redefined for discussion. The Minister of Justice, Mr. Stavros Kontonis, has no coma. The reason is to read a bill in the House. The sixth question under number 929/2-6-2017, on theft of electricity, will not be discussed by the Minister of Finance, Mr. Euklidis Tsakalotou, on theft of electricity. Cause: workload. Nor will the seventh question, number 931/2-6-2017, be discussed in the context of the second question of the Athens MP, Mr. Georgios Amyras, on the 'SIEMENS' case, due to the obstruction of the same Minister. Furthermore, the tenth question under number 924/1-6/2017 of the Athens National Association - Golden Dawn, Eleni Zaroulia, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the "definition of a judiciary to the Administration of the Overseas" will not be discussed due to a workload of the Minister of Finance, Euklidis Tsakalotou. The same applies to the eleventh question, under number 948/6-2017, on the second question by MP II Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Sakis Vardalis to the Minister of Finance, concerning the Greek Vehicle Industry "ELVOABE". The sixth question under number 979/7-6-2017, first question by MP of Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister for Health, concerning the inclusion of the vaccine against the Ministrococcus Terminal of Type II in the National Vaccine System, will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Minister of Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos. Cause: workload. The third under number 1005/12-6-2017 a topical question by the Independent MEP, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The hospitals will be paid?", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the same Minister. The same applies to the ninth with number 943/6-2017, a topical question by the Member of Parliament for the Flash of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Bargiotas to the Minister for Health, on "Is there finally a national and regional strategy for the development of medical tourism?". The eighth under number 942-6-2017 a topical question from the New Democracy MP Christos Boukorous to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Dramatic the situation in the Second Pathological Clinic Volos", will not be discussed as a result of a blockade by the Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Paul Polakis. Cause: workload. Also, the fourth under number 976-6-2017 top-level question of the First Circuit Halkidiki of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Save Vlachos Salvation to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Halkidiki Law Deficiencies are jeopardising the lives of citizens", will not be discussed due to a workload of Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Paul Polakis. The fifth under number 923/1-6/2017 topical question by the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Papapas to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Following the Order of the Nation", will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister of Education Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-19-S1-commons.u112	With the consent of the House at the time of 19.26 the sitting for the next Wednesday, 21 June 2017, at 10 a.m., on the subject of this House: legislative work, in accordance with the agenda to be distributed.
