ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 22-6-2017, the Minutes of the PLAC Bureau were confirmed at its meeting of Thursday 22 June 2017, with regard to the vote on the entire motion of the President of Parliament: "To amend provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament - Part Parliamentary Party (FO 106/A'/24.6.1987) and Part II (FO 51/A'10.4.1997), as applicable."]] Ladies and gentlemen, before entering the topical and urgent debate I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question report on Monday 26 June 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 1067/20-6-2017 by MP Achaias of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Andreas Rizzoulis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: ‘Completion of the OHIM 3(a)/OEC 10447/26-10-2012 for zero participation in medicines and consumables for patients with a heart failure and a disability rate equal to or greater than 80%’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 1074/20-6/2017 of the Member of Parliament, Mr. Spyridonos - Adonidos Georgiadis, to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: “Contact of the Minister of National Defence, Mr. Panos Kammenos, with the isovite Mr. Giannosakis”. 3. The question by number 1027-14-6-2017 of the Vice-President of the Parliament and Deputy Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Finance, on "Aid measures for the economy of the Dodecanese". 4. Under number 1042/19-6-2017, a topical question by MP II of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Bagou to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: ‘Procedures for interventions in the work of justice, concerning the case ‘NOOR 1’. 5. Under number 1032/16-6/2017, a topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance regarding the bet companies. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under No 1037/16-6-2017, a topical question by the New Democracy MP Andreas Katsaniotis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “Emergent need for integrated management policies in the fight against mosquitos from the state”. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question raised by Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou, Member of the European Parliament, Mr Achaias, Vice-President of the Democratic Association of the PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou, Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: "Institutional interventions in the work of justice by Mr. Panos Kammenos". 3. The Question No 1026-16-2017 by the Independent MEP Mr. Dimitrios Koukoutsis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Prospects and needs of the International Airports Kalamata". 4. The Question by MP Halkidiki of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Save Vlachos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Missures of ambulances in the Halkidiki Prefecture put the lives of citizens at risk". 5. The question of the inclusion of the vaccine against meningococcal type II serogroup I MEP Mr.Ioannis Saridis into the National System of Vaccinations. 6. The Question No 1005/12-6/2017 by Independent MEP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Will the surnames be paid?" 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. Mr. Andreas Loverdos (Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights) asked the President-in-Office of the Republic of Athens about the co-responsibility of children. 8. The current question by No 923/1-6/2017 of the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Following the "partition of the nation"". 9. By No 929/2-6-2017 a timely question from MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance about the theft of electricity. 10. The question raised by Mr Georgios Amyras at number 931/2-6-2017, concerning the 'SIEMENS' case. 11. The question by No 942-6-2017 of the New Democracy MP, Christou Boukorou, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Dramatic the situation in the Second Pathological Clinic Volos". 12. Under number 943/6-2017, a topical question by the Member of Parliament for the Flemish Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister of Health, on "Is there finally a national and regional strategy for the development of medical tourism?". 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The question by number 924/1-6/2017 of MP II Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Helen Zaroulia to the Minister of Finance regarding the appointment of a judge to the administration of the Supreme Court. 14. Observed. The question by number 948/6-2017 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Sakis Vardalis, on the Greek Vehicle Industry "ELVOABE". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Xanthi of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Gregorios Stoyannides to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights about temporary judicial protection of fired. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by Mr Dimitrios Kyriazidis under number 4382/22-3-2017, concerning the national anti-cancer policy. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS First of all, I would like to announce that it will not be discussed due to the absence of the relevant Minister, Mr Papademitriou, abroad, the second under number 1069/20-6-2017, the second time question of the President of Heraklion, the Democratic Asylum PASOK - DIMAR Mr Vassiliou Kegeroglou, to the Minister for Economy and Development, on the subject: 'What is ultimately the case with red agricultural loans and the extrajudicial compromise? - The urgent need for their sustainable regulation'. The following topical and urgent questions will also not be discussed and redefined for discussion: The second, under number 1035/16-6-2017, is a top-stage question of the first cycle of the Parliamentary 2 Athens, New Democracy, Ekaterini Papakostas - Ironropoulou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the country's energy stability following the flooding in Amyntos. Mr. Stathakis was about to answer. Due to a workload, it is not present. Also to Mr Stathakis, the Minister for the Environment and Energy, was the first with number 5043/194-2017 question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr Kegeroglou, on the postponement of the program "I Save House". Also, the first under number 1036/16-6/2017, a topical question from the New Democracy MP, Jason Fotella, on the subject of "Will a solution be finally given to the issue of AMIADIT?" will not be discussed as a result of an impediment - travel outside Athens - Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy Mr Socrates Famelou. For the reasons given, there is the letter from Mr Michael Kalogeros, the Secretary of the Ministerial Council. We now move on to the debate of the third under No 1025/13-6-2017 on the top of the question of the first cycle of the Athens MP of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdou to the Minister of State and Government, on "Professionals in the companies "PHGASOS", "NATIONOS SA". Mr. Loverde, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, parliamentary control gives the opportunity for a strong confrontation with the government but sometimes gives the opportunity to consult to find a solution to social issues. A month and a half ago - I apologise for the parenthesis - I had asked Mrs Gerovas - in my legal capacity more - what she would do with workers under public contracts, because you should not be a prophet or a writer or a psychic, to assess the decisions of courts that are about to come, where they can move about. I told her that if she brought this to the Public Administration Committee, we had to tell her about proposals to solve the problem. He did not see it positive and implied the permanentization of the contractors. The next day the newspapers were filled with her statements in the House on the permanentization of contractors and, behold, the results. In the same spirit - and I am expressing this very clearly - I ask you today. I met the employees of the companies that the President read from my question, the companies "PHYGASOS" and "NATIONOS S.A.". They told me they saw you. But people from all parties were also watching, not just us. After the debate we had with them and the experience of the Lamprakis Journalist Agency, which is not the same case "PHYGASOS" and "NATIONOS S.A.". - We said if the government needs a consultation, because it intends to make legislation, we're here. If that is not possible, the government must find even a way of exerting pressure so that workers can pay some of the money they owe, because they are too many months unpaid to enable them to actually be able to sell the company while it is in operation. Another value is a newspaper title that is “dead letter” and another value is a newspaper title referring to workers and a circulating newspaper. If you have anything to say, they hear you and the workers hear you, we hear you too. We are, however, at your disposal for any agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Loverdos for his constructive approach to this issue, not only to the question of the workers of PEGASOS and NATIONOS SA but also to the question of contractors. You know very well that because of past political practices, there is a complete work relationship in the public, which has led to a state of work hostage of thousands of workers. The Greek Government has tried both in hospitals and in relation to contractors working in cleanliness, to normalise this situation, to create employment relationships that will first respect the work dignity of these people, whom you know very well that the Greek state has frequently exploited, used them as an election client and created extremely difficult management problems, with well-known legal and constitutional constraints. What the Prime Minister said at the Ministerial Council, and what the co-legislative ministers are trying at the moment, is to find a solution that will be the best possible, of course, once again, given the constitutional constraints and the difficult situation created by a legislation that is incomprehensible and does not take account of the interests of workers in particular, but much more - and you know that very well - of the various contractors who sell services, often with unfavourable financial results for the Greek State. We welcome the option of the Democratic Partnership to help in this effort. Now, as far as the situation in "PHYGASOS" and "NATIONOS S.A." is concerned, you know that unfavourable developments in these companies are the symptom of a chronic crisis in the Greek press. This crisis continues with unsatisfactory tension and you know that many times it has faces, which are related to the soil that has been created in all previous years. You know very well - although politically your prolongation and you had a different view - that the whole situation has emerged from the way these companies were lending, not only the specific one we are discussing but all the press firms in the country, which were with reduced guarantees, without any evidence of the possibility of repaying the loans they received. The second cause is the ten-year economic crisis, which has been dominated by the Greek press and the third cause of today's territory, is the changes that have taken place in terms of information. You know that on this background today a ruthless business war is being waged for changes of correlation within the Greek press and many times on the workers' backs. This war which is taking place and involving business interests, banks and political forces, has leveled traditions, political origins, ideological identities, all on the altar of a cruel war which is conducted mainly against the Greek Government. In any case, I think that the situation in PGASOS and NATIONOS SA are another incident in this restructuring operation, which is taking place in the media. There have been many incidents in recent times with the collapse of the DOL, which, of course, has led to a process of liquidation in operation, with the known results. You are asking me for a legislative initiative and I answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u5	With this part you close your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u6	Yeah. So I tell you that a few months ago - you will remember this very well - the Prime Minister here in Parliament had proposed to all parties that they participate in a cross-party initiative so that a legislative initiative can be taken, which will define the conditions for managing the severe crisis in the Greek press. At that time, Mrs Gennamas, although a little late, had agreed to this initiative and said that she was willing to work with the government so that the problems could be resolved. But, ever since then, you know, Mr. Loverde, he's been running too much water in the groove. The procedure for the auctioning of the DOL is almost complete and we have been led to developments in both "PEGASOS" and "NATIONOS". S.A.", which is currently very much dependent on the banks' initiatives. I would like to close by telling you - and I will continue in my second speech - that we expect the banks, which are also the main creditors of these companies, to do everything in their power to ensure that no one considers that there is discrimination in relation to the management of the loans of these companies, from what happened with the previous Doll case. Here you know that the government's institutional potential is limited, as the banks operate on their own terms in the legal framework that has been laid down, but I think they will have the wisdom and soundness of managing no different situations.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u7	Because we only have two topical questions, I'm tolerant of time, but don't go too far. It goes without saying that Mr. Loverdos will also have the tolerance in time. Here you go, Mr. Loverde.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u8	Thank you. As far as waste is concerned and the wider issue, as you have said, of the contractors is concerned, you say that we welcome our proposal for consultation. It is a positive development, but it is, Minister, then almost a holiday after it broke out a subject. Our proposal was over a month and a half ago, and Mrs Gerovas despised her. We are now 'at 'to' and 'to' not 'to 'to' five'. Our proposal for contributions is being kept in full. This cannot be left to political conflicts and political dialogue without substance. There is a problem for both workers and for Greek society. Therefore, even if the government changes its mind and wants consultation, the House is here. Now, in my question, look, there is a problem that has been created in the press - as you rightly say in part - and in the light of developments in the labour market and in the economy in general, but there are some issues relating, Minister, to the banks. As you said, and I was informed by the workers, and the bank cord is now suffocating. You are responsible for the creation of this suffocating cloak, because you have caused a situation where all of Greece, namely the banking sector and many other sectors, are indicted in the courts. Every day they are tried, and every day they are condemned or acquitted. You have created in the economy the suffocating cord of subjugation. And bank employees, whatever discretion they may have had, think about themselves and say: "I cannot give a solution that can be of benefit today to four hundred and thirty-three employees of the "National S.A." and "PEGASOS S.A." and tomorrow I will be in charge. They're all held up, pressurized, because they've been through what they've been through. I would also like to remind you of this company's bank consortium in April 2016, on your days, since you spoke of loans. But I didn't come here to quarrel. That's what we have to talk about. We also have the wider public debate and other procedures of the House. I came here for something very specific. Do you have in mind to bring in a legislative initiative? There is the case of the 'DOL'. What did we have there? At some point we had the closure of the faucet of the banks, the closure of the string and the operation to be dismantled. We left the businessman and the court order from the Athens Court of First Instance, which decided that the company would be transferred into operation, that is to say, a management, but an operating company. Then we had the next stage where the offers were, etc. What was done on your part - because you referred to it as well, I did not intend to do such hints - in the press field, in the media sector, which started in October 2015 with the famous four licenses, is now going on in another way, with pressures or even blackmails, I would say, as we have learned, in the case of the "DOL" before reaching the opening of tenders. That's not what I'm interested in today. That's what we'll talk about some other time. I ask you this: is there any room for legislative intervention on your part? Then we're here. There isn't? Can the employer in some way be forced to do any of the jobs, so that whatever the development, withdrawal or non-ownership, it is not our concern to say that or we do not know - with your own intervention, to finally manage the company in operation, with the aim of workers being there and being able to make the month? It's a complex situation. I'm not hiding it, nor am I asking you to perform miracles. But tell us what you have to do with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u9	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u10	I would like to make a comment on the contractors. You know very well that all the situation that has arisen has to do - and I told you in my prototype - with the hostage practices of the past. The Greek Government has tried to resolve this issue by considering it to be in the constitutional order. We expect the rationale of the Court of Auditors' decision to see how it manages - as far as the interpretation and legislative provision are concerned, but also the constitutional interpretation it will make - the whole case and from there on, we will see how we move. However, I am telling you again that the aim of this government is not to reproduce a number of legal practices of the past which were primarily aimed at creating electoral clients by using workers as hostages or to create conditions so that they can be attributed to a number of services of the Greek public - many times at very high financial costs - to contractors, but to try to resolve the issue. The relevant ministers, obviously, are at your disposal to discuss this particular debate in detail. Now, I do not want to extend to the conditions for lending the Greek market and to what you call a "general state of subjugation". We have a different view which has been recorded in the conclusions of the Committee of Inquiry into the Media. On the basis of the findings of the Committee of Inquiry, we believe - and this is the case with the Greek Parliament - that for 15 years the logic of the'sea-sea-saves', i.e. loans without guarantees, has created the ground for the current situation in the Greek press. I think you are wrong to think that the attacks in the press, whether in the electronic press or in the forms, have started since 2015. I think we're not talking about this. As far as the legislative initiative is concerned, you also know that in Law No4307/2014 the winding-up procedure is an initiative that creditors should take, that is to say, starts at a request of 40% of the creditors, who from there on should define the procedures for winding-up in operation. This was done in 'DOL' and for one reason above. What for? Because the property had long refused to put its hand in the pocket, i.e. to serve loans, to make possible capital increases and to create viability conditions for the company. As far as the current situation is concerned, I told you before that we are expecting the banks, which have the first reason in this process, as the law itself stipulates that they must take the initiative to initiate the winding-up process in operation, manage the case of "NATIONALOS S.A." and "PGASOS S.A." in the same way as they managed the case of "DOL". As far as workers and payments are concerned - things I wanted to tell you in my protology, but I did not have time - on behalf of the Ministry of Labour and the Labour Inspectorate, I have to tell you that the press and, in particular, those who are facing sustainability problems are an absolute priority. Thus, only for "TELETYPT", "PEGASO" and "DOL" from September 2015 until today have eight checks, eight fines, five presses for won, seven labour disputes, while in progress there are a work difference and one check. So what I can tell you is that, from our side and given the weakening of workers' trade unions, due to a series of developments in the labour market and particularly because of high unemployment, we know very well that the only protection that can be afforded to workers is by state control mechanisms. Believe me, we are exhausted our rigour as opposed to what has happened in the past. We are therefore depleting our rigour, exhausting any institutional and legal tool there is, so that we can, with the primary aim of serving the interests of the workers, lead to the payment of the debts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u11	Mr President, can you give me a few seconds? That makes sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u12	Good. You have the floor for ten seconds, but there won't be...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u13	For God's sake! You referred to the Prime Minister's initiative on 'DOL'. We had responded and well done and referred to Mrs. Gennimata. We continued it, however, but there was a refusal from your side. Now we have reiterated the proposal and it is on the table, Minister. Answer, if you like, right now. I do not want to tell you where we have tabled the proposal, because I commit myself, but the agreements must be made to render, not to fight in the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u14	I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u15	The proposal by Mrs Gennamas and PEGASOS S.A. are intact. If you are willing to respond and the other parties are here, to do a cross-party.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u16	Minister, you have 30 seconds to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u17	Thirty seconds and less, Mr President. I told you that in her honor, Mrs Gennimata accepted the proposal of the Prime Minister. However, you understand that for a matter as thin as it is the management of a company that is faced with or many companies facing sustainability problems, there must be absolute clarity, absolute transparency and as much consensus as possible. The New Democracy is very well aware of the fact that it has involved the process for its own reasons, which it has to explain at some point. In other words, it did not accept a cross-party consensus, so that we could table a specific amendment, a specific proposal that would tackle the problem horizontally and globally and has given the opportunity at the moment for an unregulated development of the economics of various companies and has led the situation so that the banks had the first reason to have it. I appreciate the fact that you are reintroducing the proposal. I think, however, that it is now the New Democracy's turn to take a concrete position on this issue and, if there is a consensus on its side, that we should manage the problem with a cross-party consensus, of course, to move forward.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u18	We shall now proceed to the second and last topical questions. It is the first question under number 1068/20-6/2017 of the First Cycle of MP Grevenes of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Christos Beyala to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information Mr. Poppa, on the transition to the digital signal for large parts of the province. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, about two years ago the digital transition to our country was completed. As we all remember, however, the well-known developments were preceded by the closure of the ERT and the special competition of the National Telecommunications and Post Commission for the network provider, where in this competition there was only one candidate that covered the particular requirements. At the end of the competitive process, DIGEA became the sole provider of digital terrestrial television for the national and regional channels. As a result, in Greece, all private television stations are obliged to enter its platform. The final phase of the digital transition was completed late in February 2015, thus gradually stopping transmitting analogue frequencies. However, despite the switch to the digital signal, large parts of the province still do not have coverage of the DIGEA brand, since the ‘crystalline’ signal of digital television has not yet reached these areas. It is known that in the analogue era ERT has always covered the whole territory with its own transmitters in almost a thousand five hundred positions, while private channels have chosen to emit only a hundred thirty positions. The rest of the areas were covered by the trademark of private channels with analogue transponders, which were placed on the initiative of local communities, mainly the municipalities, which naturally covered the related costs from their budgets. In the Grevenes Prefecture there are too many mountain villages and many areas that have no digital signal at all and the analogue frequency is of very poor quality. The issue, of course, does not only touch the Grevena Prefecture, but many provincial prefectures where the relief of their region is faced with the same problem. On this issue, of course, there are strong protests from local societies, whose citizens feel second-class citizens. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Furthermore, Article 15(2) of the Constitution - which is the last word on this - ensures that information and news are transmitted objectively and on equal terms to all citizens of the country. Let us point out, Minister, here that these regions and these villages, primarily, are inhabited by pensioners. It's regions with an ageing population. They are areas with people who not only lack information, but their television and channels are fun, they are their company, they are ultimately feeling that they too are not in a social exclusion of a particular type. According to its contractual obligations, the company must cover the entire territory by digital signal rather than simply the vast majority of the population. The company should ultimately be checked for the performance of its contractual obligations and set a time limit for the consistent completion of the project. In the event of non-compliance becoming over-due and accepting such charges.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u20	Ask the question. You guys place yourself. It's like the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u21	Mr President, I'll be in two seconds. Minister, what action do you intend to take to ensure that the provider fulfils his obligations and that this social exclusion of our large sections of citizens in the province stops?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u22	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Beyala, your question is a question that has parallel and identical content with questions that we have accepted from all the wings of the House. These questions illustrate exactly the situation. I think you are also receiving this reality and these complaints from citizens who do not have access to the digital signal and cannot watch TV. It is true, unfortunately, that the areas mentioned in the Grevens Law do not have any digital coverage. And, of course, that is not only about western Macedonia. It also concerns other prefectures, unfortunately not just frontiers. Where sampling checks are carried out, we also discover settlements which cannot have a digital signal. We are talking about checks carried out by the National Telecommunications Commission. There are cases of which we have become aware and close, such as the Municipality of Argithea in the Prefecture of Karditsa, which has thirty settlements and no one can see television. We are talking about a real shame over the country right now. Of course, here, things have to be said by their name. The company's contractual obligations have to do with the population coverage. What's the problem? The problem was that the population coverage in the signed contract concerned the whole territory and not the individual region. If the obligation on population coverage was per region, it would be much higher and the coverage rate there is. It is currently covered by around 96.2% of the population and the government will take its measures to cover the whole population. I will come later to the specific measures that we are taking. The National Telecommunications Commission's Spectrum Supervision and Control Department, with appropriate metering equipment, makes such recordings and controls the possibility of receiving a digital television signal in all parts of the country. Where it is found that this company does not meet its contractual obligations, the corresponding, the planned administrative fines or the necessary moves must be made. As I said before, it is a shame to have areas in this country where people cannot watch television. I will say very briefly and I will return to my dentistry. Greece has been dynamically and consistently in the negotiations with neighbouring countries, so that the allocation of frequencies can be carried out, so that we can complete a map that meets the needs of the country, the population and take into account the country's very special relief. Secondly, we have started an effort with committees within the Directorate-General for Telecommunications, to see how, in an optimal way, we can resolve this system. There is a committee studying technical issues and a committee studying top-quality issues. Of course, we have already started and developed the television signal coverage programme through satellite reception in border areas. There is a great deal of response and I commit before the National Representation to exhaust all possibilities - and I really believe that we will achieve this by the end of the year - that this programme should be generalised and that we should be able to reach 100% of the population. Because the problem, which you are currently raising in your question, does not only concern border areas. There are also areas in Kalamata, settlements in Tripoli, which cannot watch TV. And with this reality, we really need to get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u24	Here, Mr. Beyala, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u25	Minister, I will welcome your commitment that, by the end of the year, an issue will be resolved which, as you said, concerns too many regions. I would just like to point out that in the Grevenes area - I say it for information, for it to be recorded in the Minutes - there are twenty-seven communities which do not receive a signal. But I am taking this opportunity, since this issue has been closed, to ask you another question and to ask you whether and whether your own speech is possible - it is not, of course, the question, but let me ask you - as regards the radio-broadcasting of the ERT. In the area of Western Macedonia the ERA Kozanis broadcasts, but the city of Grevena and the city of Deskatis, the two urban centers of the Grevena Prefecture, as well as many areas do not receive a signal. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to ask whether you can make your intervention and provide two transponders, so that there are even radio coverage of our prefecture and so that the blockade of information on a whole prefecture can be stopped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u26	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u27	Mr Beyla, with your last point, you will allow me to commit and return in writing, to look at the problem in its detail, in relation to the reception of a radio signal in the areas that you mentioned, and to see what action needs to be taken quickly, so that the problem can be resolved. I would like to say that the situation with the television signal was embarrassing because it seemed that there were two 'blacks'. A black beforehand and a black retrospective. The ‘black’ in advance was the ‘black’ of the ERT, which made it inactive and unable to participate in the tender for the digital signal provider. The 'black' has to do with the 'black' which the citizens are experiencing in the regions that we are now discussing. In other words, we have an example that is very obvious, a very serious demonstration that large infrastructures must be developed in the country, with strong public presence and intervention. The private sector is also the most inappropriate to do so and to meet social needs. A few days ago, I was on the beautiful island of Tilos. My position was so difficult because we went to give citizens the right to watch TV, while the citizens and the municipal authority of this island were waiting for the results of the European Union's competition for the green islands, where they won the first prize. What do I mean? While there are citizens and living social forces, which show that the new possibilities of technology are perceived and are able to exploit them, we had a state that did not respond to the basics in relation to their rights. I think, however, and here we will be discussing them, that at the end of the year we will have taken very important steps and that the basic right of citizens will have really been covered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY Question No 28/20/19-5-2017 by New Democracy MPs Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou, Sophia Vultesis, Georgiou Georgios Georgiotta, Konstantinos Giouleka, Georgios Karasmani, Dimitrios Kyriazides, Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos, Stavros Kalafati, George Koumoutsakou, Eleftherios Aygeaki, Konstantinou (Kostis) Hatzidakis, Ioannis Andrianou, Ioannis Antoniadis, Maria Antonios, George Vagiona, Stergios Giannakis, Vasiliou, Athanasios Davakis, Christos Dimas, Anastasios (Tas) Republic of Constantinople, Constantinople Ach. Karamanlis, Theodorou Karaoglou, Andreas Katsaniotis, Christos Kelles, Nikos Kerameos, Ollas Kefaloniannis, Ioannis Kefaloyannis, Emmanouil (Manou) Konsolas, Konstantinos Konstantinos Kontogeorgios, Konstantinos Koukodimou, Theodoras (Dorah) Bakoyannis, Christos Bukouros, Athanasiou, Vasilios Economou, Konstantinos Skrekas, George Stylou, Ioannis Tragakis, Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the subject: "About the lack of design and non-take of actions for the digital transformation of Greece". The reason is the first questioning Member of the Athens Parliament, Mrs Anna - Michel Asmakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, when the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information was founded in November 2016, the bad languages said that you were there, to have a distance between you and the Prime Minister, following the unconstitutionality of your law on television licences, and that this ministry - which consists of three Secretariats, the Secretariat-General for Digital Policy, and the General Secretariat for Telecommunications and Post, which came from the Ministry of Transport - was essentially a Ministry of 'Ahtarmas', which, as I said, was created to serve you. We have, however, dealt with it positively. From my institutional role, as the head of the New Democracy responsible for your affairs, in December 2016 - the first time we met, I think it was at the Digital Government Conference, here, in Athens - I told you that we will show a opposition mood, understanding and assessing that the digital strategy must be national, it must have a continuity, a consistency and not offered in any case for micro-participation. I think that we have been consistent in dealing with this and I and my colleagues, who from time to time highlight issues relating to your ministry. I note that today's topical question is not about the issues of the General Secretariat of Information, the ERT and all these parts and the Space, which comes with a separate bill. It's only about the other two pieces. So I will tell you, to begin with the structure, organization and operation of the Ministry, that you have left it as a "acharma" of these three Secretariats and that after almost nine months, there is not even an organizational chart. So let's start with this. What about the Ministry's establishment plan? Are we going to see it take flesh and bone sometime? Let's go to the first secretariat, the Digital Policy Secretariat. When you pulled out the text of the National Digital Strategy 2016-2021, which was posted in the Consultation in November 2016, you would notice that we kept a fish silence as Antipolitics, because more than 80% of the text has overlap with what we proposed. We welcomed it. I visited you, and I visited the Secretary-General, Mr. Tafillis, to see how he can move. Welcome we asked you questions in the context of parliamentary scrutiny on how the digital strategy will be implemented by various Ministries, Culture and Health. We received answers, which were - let me express - a parliamentary can, that is to say, 'as it says on the Digital Policy page, etc.' We are coming back and asking you very specifically what is going on, what is going on, what is going to happen, what timetable, what is their budget? The answer is: 'It is your fault, the past, etc.'. The digital policy sector is an area that has many technocratic issues. How do we do it? I honestly, Minister, will ask you very specific questions today, and I hope your answers do not have the general'stuff forty years of governance', which we are hearing in particular. In any case - and this is everyone's choice - I do not look at the past, because I am not going in that direction. We're going forward. We hope you'll follow us on this. Do not give me, too, the answer that we have and which Mr Haritsis has given on 27-3-2017, which tells us about payments from the EMCDDA. The reality is that both sectoral operational programmes and public administrations - these colleagues will show them - only projects carried forward at the moment. No new work exists. No invitation has come out. I don't know what Mr. Tabilis has taken from the other ministries. You tell me. And at best in cases, and everything runs, when will the first money fall on the market, Minister? I count 2019. You, if you make another calculation with Mr. Tafyllis, tell me. I move to the General Secretariat of Telecommunications and Post, in the second pillar of your Ministry. This pillar, I have to say, is more active, let's say that. There is no complete inaccuracy of work as there is in the General Secretariat of Digital Policy. It has enabled you to travel across Greece, to make various announcements and to cut digital ribbons. I refer to the Rural Broadband projects, I refer to the Super Fast Broadband and the Rural Extension, which New Democracy had predicted in time to join the NGA Plan, which had been approved at the EMANEC since December 2014. And you are now coming in May to tell us that it was typically his accession, on the day that Commissioner Ansip would visit, so that we could have something to say. These will be developed by Mr. Koumoucaskos and Mr. Kalofatis in great detail. I'm talking about it. I am going to the legislative work that emerged from that secretariat. Specifically, I'm going to Cost Reduction. We have shown our good opposition. We supported the cost-reduction legislation, which came from you two years late, because the entire market for your oligopoly had now been dissatisfied. The question is where are we? You know that Cost Reduction is based on the information system of the Infrastructure Register, a GIS geographical data system, which was published and started to be implemented in early 2014. The Ministry received it in mid-2016 without being operational. Only the EMCDDA's Aerials have been captured. For security reasons, providers are reluctant to upload data on telecommunications infrastructures such as bit optical fibres. However, since safety problems have not been solved, the cost reduction does not have a single user today. And because you know very well that the EPCT from the second goes to the third phase of VDSL Vectoring, providers will implement networks that are more than eighteen thousand cabins, without being able to see, based on the cost Reducing, exactly where there are existing usable infrastructures. So, because they're digging everywhere, you can tell us, Minister, where is this? Another topic I would like your location, is the NGA Plan. I do not see when the NGA Plan will be finalised, and there was and was implemented in 2014 and was approved by the services of the European Union. Mr. McGlarras wants something to change. That's what he says, anyway. Have we discussed this with the EMCDDA, which has made a programme based on the old approved NGA Plan and has the EMCDDA received its comparisons? How are these two things going together? I am going to the question of antennas, which will also be raised separately by colleagues. I'm supposed to accept it, and I'll tell you why I accept it - that you recognise the importance of digital transformation, so we're going to 5G, which is why 5G wants more antenna density, and that's why we're dealing with this. Anyone who has, of course, attended the second meeting of the Special Standing Committee on the Environment, can doubt whether your parliamentary majority supports you in the end. Because I have to say to you that I have seen that there are colleagues who are technically owned - I would say them - and, in any case, they also show from their parliamentary questions that they have been a little distance from technological developments and that they have been a little ignored by the relevant international bodies and also by the national bodies. So I want you to tell me, because party, government bilingualism well keeps what your position is. I know this is an important matter for you. How do I know? I know why, as I have read, a committee with distinguished participants from the Greek Atomic Energy Commission, by the ETUC, which, if I am not wrong, coordinated by a high-ranking Prime Minister, had been set up. Mr. Karanikas is dealing with this issue. So, please, I don't know what happened with this scientific committee, which is the conclusion, if we could, that we could have a briefing about it. I'm closing with the last two issues. One is SEDDIF and the other is Action Plan for 5G. For SEDDIF - and I said it publicly, Minister - Mr Spirtz has made sure that we have a national representation. What I want to hear from you today - and you will understand why I want to hear it - is the first assessment of how many hallways, how many multipliers we see claim as a country. Because, as you know, this also affects the size of the spectrum and what fits into the spectrum and the "Desert 2". I hear about seven. So, if you can, answer us. Action Plan for the 5G For Europe, you know very well that we have been set a specific timetable in which it is the issue of'smart cities'. By 2020, therefore, a Greek city should, pilotically, become a'smart city'. I ask, because it wants to do this, as you do, if there is any definition of criteria, according to which a city will become or be selected, or if it is more ambitious, if you are also more ambitious about these objectives. By the way, in relation to Action Plan for the 5G For Europe, have you created the road map for the development of the 5G? Where are we in this? Have you updated the next generation national broadband access plan to include it? Have you identified which frequency range will become the initial start of the 5G networks? Have actions been taken to update the National Live Frequency Distribution Regulation to include the frequency spectrum for the 5G? These are the issues. I repeat, Minister, as you can see, in my prology, I am very well placed in particular and basically technically planning and implementation issues, in the hope that your responses will look in the future rather than in the past. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u31	The second question, Mr New Democracy MEP from Kilkis, Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u32	I shall also use my dentistry, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u33	All right, but that's it, with a little tolerance, because I'm actually misinterpreting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, Minister, I will not be in the same good mood as our rapporteur has shown, as I have to deal with the e-government ministry, as Mrs Gerovalis has said. I read a statement from her on 18 June, the day before yesterday. The public needs people with digital skills. It takes all those tools of digital governance that ensure transparency, save time and release valuable resources in order to tackle red tape effectively. For us, therefore, it goes without saying that improving services to citizens and businesses goes through strengthening human resources and integrating e-government at all levels of administration. On this basis, we are planning and implementing the policy of the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction. That's what I'm starting with, that's what I'm gonna close. A good question: What does the specific ministry of course have to show, and what do you have to do with the very well-predicted benefits of e-government, which we all hope for? Unfortunately, nothing. And, unfortunately, I say nothing, because it really has nothing to do with the core of public administration and with the citizens' contact with the state and its quickest and most quality service at the moment, there is nothing to show that has improved these conditions. Basically, there are issues in the central direction of the Ministry itself. The Ministry has not been able for a year and a half to implement the Law on the Public Staff Register. It was advertised as an incision to public administration. An ASP application was created, which made many months to be able to function. The law has been passed since February 2016 with the prospect of operating since July 2016. We are in June 2017 and the selection process has not even begun, nothing is ready. Another piece of legislation of this Ministry was that with the mobility of civil servants and the evaluation. The evaluation was provided for by the relevant digital organograms. They have not even become the digital organograms in the Ministries, and at the moment we are talking about a digital policy. How to talk about digital policy when it is not even the organograms, which are required not only in your ministry, but in all ministries. It requires the law in all Ministries to become the organograms, and in particular digital ones, so that mobility applications and all other commitments resulting from legislation adopted by the government can then be judged. The inadequacy of government coordination on e-government issues, I think, is obvious. I would also like to say that another example of this irresponsible policy is the depreciation of the JEPs. The JEPs have managed all these years in the world's consciousness to have a very important value for their truly direct and rapid service. However, with the under-representation that you have not taken care to prevent, because we have formerly moveds from the JEP with the extra responsibilities you have given, but without its respective and electronic and staffing support, the JEPs have now been devalued both in the consciousness of the world and in their functioning, as well as in the reactions of the workers themselves, who have even been abstaining from their work. The previous government had laid the foundations for genuinely starting to go to another page on all issues of e-government, which is a necessary element and indeed a prerequisite for the development of the country. We cannot look forward to any development if the central government can no longer provide these services to the citizen, to the entrepreneurs, to every trader with the State. Electronic governance is the instrument for modernising public administration. At the same time, however, the instrument really is the means for what best results in growth can be hoped for. The open data, which were passed by the previous government is a tangible sample of a specific policy that is decided, adopted, implemented, organised and progressed. There was also a two-year strategy for e-government with concrete measurable results. At the moment, in terms of e-government, not only has it not been organised, it has not started to be implemented, but we see no picture of improving the conditions for providing services to both the citizen and to every trader. And I think that's a general assumption, which is there. Why be sure that we would not deceive any positive action towards this area. But I tried to look for and see measurable results from the two and a half years of your own governance in this area, and unfortunately I could not find them. I'm here to hear anything else on your side. What we have been hearing for two and a half years - and it is very easy to hear, but you know the ministers are being tempered by their results, by their specific interventions, by their specific legislative initiatives - is the need for digital policy to be able to be a central source of government's choice to improve the provision of public services. However, we do not see this either with regard to the staff of civil servants, where no attempt has been made to improve their image, nor with regard to the specific responsibilities, nor with regard to those targeted interventions which you should have done. And, of course, I am one of those who are pessimistic that you will ever be able to do something like that and achieve it. And after two and a half years I have been entitled to say that. Lately I think that I am entitled to go further because, in this finding by Mrs Gerovas, the public needs people with digital skills, I am obliged to reply that this government needs ministers with at least basic knowledge of the use of electronic means of communication. And, of course, I am entitled to say it and be very disappointed about what may happen when within a day last week two top ministers could not handle their staff twitter either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, too. We move to the third question, Mr Stavros Kalafatis, MP for the Thessaloniki I of the New Democracy. Do you want your dentistry too?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u36	There's a chance that I'll get either part or all of the dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u37	You have the floor, Mr. Kalafatis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u38	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about broadband, something intact and at the same time perhaps very technical, so that those who follow us from the gallery or, of course, from Parliament's channel can easily understand it. We are all here, ladies and gentlemen, not special informatics scientists. We are not entitled, however, to not know what it means. So let us say it so that the citizens understand exactly what it means, because it is about their own lives. Broadband means faster internet, better communication, faster dissemination of information and knowledge, faster and safer digital development support. Strengthening broadband means easier and faster transactions for entrepreneurship, commerce, free trade, for every citizen who is trading with the public. It means reducing red tape faster. It means better e-government. It means growth, ladies and gentlemen. The European Commission considers that the full implementation of the digital agenda by 2020 is expected to contribute to increasing European GDP by 5% and creating 3.8 million new jobs. According to all the relevant studies, the development of broadband creates an important potential for economic growth, employment, extroversion and innovation. A 10% increase in broadband penetration has been found to lead to an annual GDP growth of up to 1.5%. These are all points of common assumption. No one can question them. It is in what we agree a little - very all, opposition and government. But there's a key word. This key word is 'implementation'. And there are important parameters. Parameters and concepts, according to which the government is far away, such as speeds. Enforcement: It is what the government does with and with Greece is spoiled by remaining in the last positions of every list of evaluations of progress in the field of broadband. Okay, we had approved the next generation national broadband access plan in September 2015. We left it to you, ladies and gentlemen of the government. You have been late to approve it and although it is a key condition of the 2014-2020 Partnership Agreement. So what happened that was approved? The planned development of broadband infrastructures and the development of a favourable legislative environment for private investment in next-generation networks have been delayed so much that they have been out of schedule in the national plan. And then some wonder why we blame the government for hosting private investment. The national plan included twenty-two specific actions to reduce investment costs, to simplify administrative procedures, to stimulate demand for basic broadband services, to focus properly on investment. All had to be completed in 2015. Instead, a new project entitled “National Digital Strategy 2016-2021” was drawn up in one year from the publication of the national project by the Ministry of Digital Policy in Greece. It was announced in mid-November last year and the first project actions were carried forward, creating new delays. Explanation? The fact that the European Commission has, in the meantime, set new targets for 2025 for the creation of a gigabit Europe, that is to say, overcoming the targets of the broadband of 100Mbps 2020 and entering into the Gbps era, in Giga bps, so a new plan was needed during the government. However, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the new objective does not cancel the previous ones. We won't fly automatically to the gigabits head if we don't get through the 100Mbps step. But the government rather than implement, prefers to design and redesign because it knows that its weak point is precisely the implementation. Instead of the completion of projects in 2015 or in 2016 or even yet, the government remains hostile to delays and malfunctions by making our country a European Union jungle at the lowest pace of progress. It was only at the end of March that the law on reducing the costs of broadband development services for broadband infrastructure networks and simplifying administrative procedures was adopted. Let the Minister inform us of the reasons for the delay, despite the European Commission's points of view on the importance of maximising the impact of private investment on NGA coverage, so that Greece can cover the difference. It is worth noting that Greece received two warnings from the committee on the delay in incorporating the relevant directive. The first deadline was 1-1-2016 and the last warning was given until December 2016, which again was not observed by the Government. The European Digital Progress Report for 2017 states that ‘Greece is at a very early stage in implementing investments of around EUR 1 billion designed to invest information and communication technologies for the period 2014-2020’. It is noteworthy, ladies and gentlemen, that it is particularly important for our country, since its broadband strategy is based on the private sector, to channel most of the investment into high-speed networks, mainly by limiting public intervention to areas where market failure has been detected. And yet, lastly, Greece in the coverage of the new generation networks, NGA, the latest in fibre optic network infrastructure, pre-elected in terms of connectivity on the basis of broadband connections at a speed of more than 30Mbps. In 2015, when SYRIZA - ANEL took over the country's governance, the project was under way - I cannot use xenophobic terms - Rural Broadband. I'll explain what it is. In other words, the development of broadband infrastructures in five thousand four hundred and ninety-three rural and island regions which do not have access to the Internet and which account for about 50% of the Greek territory. The contracts were signed in December 2014. What is the rate of project implementation today? In view of 2017, under the Agreement, the 15-year operating period and the wholesale provision of broadband services by private partnership bodies to retail providers is beginning. This is a work with tangible results, which, although the rulings have received under signed contracts, have been to the point of delaying the licenses for up to three months. The project was also under way to complete metropolitan rings, known as MAN, with national networks targeting three thousand seven hundred public buildings to gain a lot of rapid 1 Gbps access, from a few Mbps before, multiplying the speed of connection to critical national networks and the internet. The contracts have been signed by 14-2-2014. Digital Register of Internet Infrastructures concerning the recording of all the country's telecommunications networks for the creation of a digital register of Internet infrastructures. The contracts were signed in June 2014. What was accomplished? Anything? There was also ongoing availability of radio spectrum at 800 MHz and 2,6 GHz to connect to very high speeds on the internet. The problem had started to be addressed in the licensing of antenna installations and then SYRIZA and ANEL came. The National Plan redesigned by the Government already provided for two actions focusing on achieving its objectives: First action, the well-known Rural Extension, to those who are aware of a budget of EUR 160 million, is aimed at covering the areas that are intended to remain white areas of a new generation after the implementation of the announced investment projects and the above-mentioned project, Rural Broadband, in order to reach at least 30 Mbps connections everywhere. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute and a half if you are kind. Second action, the Superfast Broadband, a budget of EUR 200 million. This aims at developing an extensive network of optical fibres in densely populated urban areas and aims to reach a connection of at least 50% of households with speeds of at least 100 MPPS combined with the coverage achieved by private investments. I conclude by saying that these two which were included in the national plan adopted by the European Union as early as September 2015 and since then they have been announced and announced, announced and announced. We had the calendar of notices in the first half of 2016. They were only approved on 10 May 2017 by the Special Secretariat for the Management of Sectoral Programmes of the ERDF and the Cohesion Fund, but one must explain to us the reasons for delay, Minister. Or will anyone first admit to them by the government? Because the reasons for the delay, ladies and gentlemen, have flesh and bone and sit on the government's seat. At last, then, gentlemen of the government, stop planning and start implementing. The twenty-first century is moving on. Greece needs a fast forward government, but unfortunately it has a government that holds it firmly in the pause. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u39	Thank you. Mr Georgios Koumoutsakos, MP in Athens, New Democracy, is called to Stepma, in which we wish and good success in the book he presented yesterday. I'm putting you guys in a dentist too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u40	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your good words and your wishes. Ladies and gentlemen, we are seeing every day that we are lacking as a country on digital issues. And that is regrettable, especially considering how many applications the country's digital transformation can have in businesses, in public health, in public administration, in the daily lives of its citizens. Unfortunately, today we are forced to return as a new democracy to the issue of the country's digital transformation. We're doing this because we're worried. The country's digital transformation for us is not a motto of empty content. It's worth it, it's a vehicle of progress, it's a national matter. It is national not only because it concerns the country's position and prestige in a new digital reality and globalism, but because it is a matter of digital equal opportunities for all citizens. Its applications concern non-assisted areas, the establishment of equal opportunities and opportunities conditions in sensitive regions of the country, and the equal participation of citizens in digital television broadcasting services, in areas where there is inequality, in areas such as Thrace and the northern Aegean. It is comforting that you are now following our footsteps. Only you do it much slower, much more expensive, smaller, more limited. And I'm explaining: Because it was the Government of New Democracy which, for national reasons, decided to effectively ensure this issue in two sensitive national regions: eastern Macedonia and Thrace and the northern Aegean. In particular, two decisions by the then Secretary-General for Telecommunications and Posts, Mr Daskalaki, were taken on 23-1-2015, namely the ‘Digital Convergence’ programme and financing the costs of ‘digital TV signal provision in remote areas of the Eastern Macedonia and Thrace Region and digital television broadcasting services in areas of the northern Aegean Region’. This was done in order to allow these outermost regions to be covered by budget projects of EUR 638,700 for East Macedonia and Thrace and EUR 559,500 for the North Aegean. Attention, co-financing from the European Regional Development Fund. The duration of these projects was almost six months for eastern Macedonia and Thrace and seven months for the northern Aegean. This would have solved the problem of television coverage in these sensitive areas of our country by the summer of 2015, covering the need for information about about two hundred thousand of our compatriots. And we have the change of government. Shortly after the change of government, on 14 May 2015, the predecessor of Mr Papapas at the Ministry, the then Deputy Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, Mr. Spirtz, with the decision - to give you the number -151/664/PSF2695A2 also withdrew the inclusion of these projects on the grounds that they constitute State aid, despite the fact that they had been approved by the competent services of the European Commission and never came to a complaint or that the European Union had initiated a procedure known as EU PILOT. And you are talking now in a dithrambic way about installing satellite antenna in extreme villages, stating that you have solved a problem. You have, of course, made it into all the media over the past few months. Except that this problem had already been solved through Community aid from the Government of New Democracy, with a budget of 1,2m euros, unlike the action of the Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, where the estimated budget now amounts to 1,9m euros and its funding comes from the Greek Committee on Telecommunications and Posts, according to the decision you made on 4-4-2017. Let's just talk about it so we don't get confused. New Democracy's budget of 1,1 million euros. In particular, for Thrace 637,700 euros and the northern Aegean 559,500 euros with money from the ESRB. Budget of works by SYRIZA - ANEL: 1.9 million with money by the Greek Committee for Telecommunications and Posts. Population coverage of the New Democracy projects: Two hundred thousand permanent residents. In particular: Thrace, one hundred fifty thousand to one hundred eighty thousand inhabitants and northern Aegean, twenty - three thousand five hundred seventy - four. Population coverage by SYRIZA - ANEL: Forty - two thousand four hundred eighty - six permanent residents broken down as follows: Evros Law, ten thousand eighty - eighty - eighty - eight. Dodecanese, four thousand three hundred thirty. Xanthi, seventeen thousand five hundred ninety. Rodopi, seven thousand seven hundred eighty. Samos, a thousand four hundred fifty nine. Chios, four hundred fifty-eight. Total, forty - two thousand four hundred eighty - six permanent residents. In the new Republic, the provision was for two hundred thousand inhabitants. Congratulations! And that's what you didn't even include Drama and Kavala. And I hear celebrations. But there is something positive about all this, because there are some assumptions, Minister, which are interesting. In statements from you in Thrace, to promote what we started and almost finished, you said that one can watch fifty channels. You're maturing!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u41	Satellites, Mr. Kumucaco. Don't lie like that. Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u42	You're maturing!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u43	Injections.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u44	It is certainly hopeful to hear such statements from someone who has long tried, agonizingly, to impose only four channels on the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u45	Free reception.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u46	Minister, all you have announced would be a tangible reality if your government hadn't stopped them. You should know that nowadays everything is evolving very quickly and digital stagnation is, after all, a backward one. And that is a long way from the digital maturity we want our country to reach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u47	My assessment is that there is a very serious, high-level debate on all sides. There's no need for tension. That's the point. When everyone takes the floor, he will tell his opinion, because there is a nice discussion.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u48	Mr President, I would just like the floor for ten seconds on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u49	Mr Paradisepoulou, you do not have the right under the Rules of Procedure, because the procedure for questions is specific. But because we have time, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u50	I would just say more Greek, Mr President. We do not need 'cost reduction', nor do we need 'action plan'. We have excellent Greek words to talk about.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u51	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u52	I think the speakers have pointed this out, but there seems to be the technical conditions that cannot be ignored by anyone. You personally don't find me against this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u53	Mr President, where we can describe it. There's a terminology.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u54	I think that there is no objection from anyone in Mr Friday's remark. It's just sometimes it can't be overcome. Mr Vassiliou Yoyakas, Member of the Thesprotia Parliament of the New Democracy. I've put your dentistry on you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, close to what is very interesting is put forward by my fellow speakers, I take as the starting point an important part of the European Commission's proposal on the digital single market strategy, which refers to the reform of the legislation on advanced digital networks and innovative services, with a view to strengthening investment and competitiveness. It is recognised that the technical options that each country makes today will have an impact on the development of the digital market for many years, i.e. they will define opportunities for telecommunications enterprises and content providers, as well as the choices of end-users, individuals and organisations. It is also stressed that a key condition for the development of competitive digital services is the development of modern high capacity networks. In our country, however, this whole debate on the new generation networks has been blocked - let me say - in incentives to upgrade the existing copper network with a technology that experts say has monopolistic features, because it drags providers operating through wholesale access behind commercial resale models of a dominant provider, so that they cannot differentiate their retail services, as is currently the case with the unbundled local loop system. This lack of competition in telecommunications access infrastructures is considered the main reason why modern networks, a new generation in a country, are not being developed. But if we want to create the possibilities for competitive digital services in the years to come, we have no choice but to go to a modern, alternative network of open access. The European Union's reformed regulatory framework gives our country a threefold opportunity: to ensure healthy and equal competition in the digital infrastructure and services market, to invest in creating a second access network and to have more, better and cheaper services to end-users. In view of the European Commission's proposal to develop open wholesale access models, but also of the great national need for new investments, I would like you to tell us whether and what you are going to do about this, especially if you are planning a revision of the regulatory framework. On the subject of broadband internet infrastructure in the so-called 'white, rural and island regions' it is known that the project should have been completed last December. Still, we're far too far from this. We are informed that there are problems in the part of the project concerning areas of Thessaly, Eastern Central Greece, Evia, Cyclades and southern Epirus, as well as in Thesprotia. The reason is that it was not used everywhere optical fibres, but a combination of optical fibres with microwave wireless access links, for which the installation of two hundred and eighty-five total antennas is required. The problem here, as the Minister knows, is that the same procedure is followed for the licensing of antennas for mobile phone antennas. That is, it's quite time-consuming. The result is that in the past twenty months approximately twenty antennas have been licensed, much less than 10% of all needs. The approvals for the installation of the antennas are stuck in the local office and other competent offices. So at the moment we do not know when the broadband networks will work for the areas that will have to be covered by microwave links. We read that this work will be delayed at least one year - perhaps more - if the problems of antenna licensing are not solved. We would like, Minister, a clear answer on how you intend to speed up the licensing process, but also on the timing of the completion of the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u56	Mr Athanasios Bouras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. Although this is a very important and serious issue - it is the biggest issue that our country has to deal with today - yet time is relentless and that is why I will try - with your tolerance - to say some things. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the integration of new technologies with digital technology first is not without the entry of the Greek economy into a competitive path. Unfortunately, however, as has been announced by the European Union, Greece remains strong in all three areas of the single digital market, namely the digital market, e-commerce and e-government. In view of the work of the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, we find, unfortunately, an incredible delay, an impulse to the storming technological changes. There is an ambiguity in the government's targeting and pursuit. It is also clear that the so far announced policy is incomplete because it does not pay due attention to the development of agricultural and industrial processing. Unfortunately, the connection between the digital economy and the digital industry does not seem to be sufficient, as required. Furthermore, concerns arise from the current operation of the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information. It is clear that the role of this Ministry should be coordinated. What instruments of cooperation, however, have you developed, Minister, with the thematics, as well as the relevant ministries, such as the Economy and Development, education, rural development, shipping and tourism? At European Union level, each country develops a specific qualification and has a specific position. This is not clear in our own country. As regards infrastructure, the European Union Strategy, adopted in September 2016, sets out a vision for Europe where availability and use of very high capacity networks allow for the wide use of products, services and applications in the digital single market. In addition, it asks that the 5G connection be available to at least one important city in each Member State by 2020 at the latest. Smart cities, Minister, are the cities that use technology for the welfare of their population, reflecting future societies. They have become the great bet of the governments of most developed countries, with the largest municipalities embraced this effort in recent years. But will Greece be able to create smart cities? In several Greek regions, moves have already been made to adopt models that will facilitate the lives of citizens. Greece, however, is lacking. Our proposals in this direction - because today we have not only come to criticise, we have proposals and - are specific: Transfer of all the applications and data used by the municipalities and regions in the G - Cloud infrastructure of the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction. At the same time, account should be taken of all applications made by municipalities and regions throughout the country. Ensure the procedures for the immediate implementation of ‘CONTINU II’, but until the new ‘CONTINUATION’ is implemented, free municipalities and regions from the mandatory use of the slow ‘CONTINUATION I’. Design and immediate implementation of key municipal service applications in Cloud environment. Controller training, creation of digital proficiency levels. Unfortunately, I don't have enough time to analyse them. I said at the outset that this is very important. At this point I would like to propose, Minister, as smart cities - and I will do so for a region in which I live for many years and serve from the position of parliament, the Attica region - cities from this region, which produces 40% of national wealth, has the most heavy industries in the Triasian field, for example, in the Megarra and Aspropyrgos. See it and if possible soon, because the limit is 2020. I would like to say, Mr President, that, as from the point of view of the New Democracy, I am responsible for the economic and development sector, that, unfortunately, there is full misgivings and a complete disquiet of the application of the new technology in electronic commerce. In fact, the activation of IT projects within the EWRS, the ESRB, seems to be delaying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u58	And hang up with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u59	There are some obligations for our country for e-commerce from the OECD toolbox, such as the creation of infrastructures for informing the Greek businessman, the creation of a register of electronic shops, e-commerce and electronic business, the signal of trusting electronic stores in ELO standards, the education of the Greek businessman in e-commerce. Unfortunately, I can't develop them, but things are at zero. And we are indebted because we have been considerably delayed in implementing obligations from the OECD toolbox. On the basis of all the above, Minister - and I conclude, Mr President, in one minute - I would like to point out that the lack of a comprehensive strategy by the SYRIZA Government - ANEL on digital development is evident. The creation of the relevant Ministry could contribute in this direction. However, the only thing that has been done so far is to combine some services and general stamps. In particular, two and a half years after the government has not completed its strategy of exploiting the relevant EWRS funds. For two years he reviewed what he received from the previous government, to end up with the adoption of what he has received with regard to the main axes with a wide difference: It attempts to amend and intervene in the dogmatic prejudices and, as usual, to waste crucial time on the absorption of funds, but also to implement critical projects for the modernisation of administration and the development of the economy. Even today, Mr President, the programmes - listen to this, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen - will be the first contracts in about two and a half years. I repeat, if you move on today. You understand the delay and damage caused to the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u60	Mr. Bourra, please complete. I can't show any more tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u61	Unfortunately, the government's problem is also the country's problem. It is her attempt to capture even digital development in her narrow ideological context. He doesn't trust the market, he doesn't trust self-government, he doesn't believe in private and public partnerships. In fact, you've been inaugurating lately, when you were across, Minister, with every means. But you cut ribbons for PPP projects, which the previous government designed, planned and implemented.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u62	Mr. Bourra, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u63	With all this and other things that I am omitted - we will perhaps develop them at another opportunity - Mr Minister, I would like to hear your answers, see where you are going and how you intend to handle this important instrument for the development of the country, which we have twenty-six out of eight in the twenty-eight countries of Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u64	We close with the last question, Mr. George Stylion, and immediately after the speech the Minister, Mr. Pappas, will take. Mr. Style, you have the floor for five minutes with a slight tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u65	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the issue we are discussing today on the digital transformation of our country is not one of barren controversy. The only thing for sure is that, regardless of where we will end up, and if we can agree today on something, one thing is foreseeable: the world is going ahead and will continue without us. All the other countries will continue to rapidly integrate new technologies into their education, changing their societies and economies without asking us. It's a road without a return. We do not have the luxury of delaying, we are already in the process. Ladies and gentlemen, we have four pragmatic data on issues relating to digital illiteracy and innovation, which we cannot ignore. I quote: Firstly, education and training find it difficult to go hand in hand with increasing demand for skills. Our country's educational system, according to a study by Endeavor Greece 2017, which has just been published in the press, has serious weaknesses - at all its levels - to equip young people with the necessary facilities to serve high-tech and innovation companies. Internationally recognised that a modern educational system should offer programming skills already from the primary, algorithmic thinking, problem-solving skills, logic and creativity, mathematical background. Today, there are more than five hundred thousand job vacancies in Europe - I say again, over five hundred thousand job vacancies in Europe - because employers are not able to find the appropriate qualified people. The demand for these jobs increases 4% per year, above supply. This is paradoxical, when unemployment rates, particularly among young people, especially in ages between twenty and twenty-nine, are very high. Secondly, even under these weaknesses, in our educational system the excellent, the best, the brain leak, the Brain drain are having trouble adapting to the situation. There is no need here for any specific analysis and quotes of statistics and studies, because it is understandable to all of us what I mean about 'brain drain'. Thirdly, companies with a peak technologies are reducing. In the same study it is noted that sectors with international orientation and extroversion, such as technology, have declined in the number of new enterprises. In 2012, around a thousand new companies were set up in the field of technology, the corresponding figure in 2016 has been reduced to about eight hundred enterprises, recording a 27% reduction. In other words, even those who can overcome the obstacles and find the right staff and are competitive are reducing time by time. Fourthly, in the area of innovation, grants from national and Community research programmes are facing this serious problem. The research and development products of these projects, at the end of the projects financed, despite the fact that they are important innovations, are not exploited in practice and are not supported further so that they can deliver social, environmental and economic benefits. That is how we have the following negative results. We are constantly investing funds in similar activities, since every time we invent the wheel and finance similar proposals, without any substantial result. We are creating temporary subsidized jobs for researchers, who are going through a project and are changing direction, depending on the limitations of the project concerned, and therefore do not ascribe the maximum in their area. We are thus losing funds invested in research and innovation, as well as permanent jobs - in introductory forms - for research staff properly targeted, properly oriented, that could return and give us added value. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing, Mr. President. As you understand, we have a negative reality. I do not mean that the problem is today and that it has been created now, but it requires concrete actions and policies, which I expect to hear from you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u66	Pulse of questions. The Minister has the floor for 20 minutes. I would remind you that you have both a dentology and a tritology, so...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u67	I will be in time, Mr President, hoping to cover most of the questions which have also been raised in the text of the question, but also in the speeches by the honourable Members, so that we can have today's debate as productive as possible. I think that the criticism of the New Democracy is deliberately ignoring a reality that our partners now recognise internationally. For there have been references to the Desi indicators and, of course, the reference made to Commissioner Ansip himself, when he had visited our country, has the greatest increase in the penetration of new technologies that had been in the past 18.6%, and that ranks it in the fourth or fifth place in the European Union in relation to the rate of increase in new technologies. This rate of increase in the penetration of new technologies will, of course, increase, because for the first time the country is making a coherent policy in the field of information and communication technologies. You will have to ask yourself, of course, because Members of the New Democracy have been paralyzed here by Stepma Members and have explained how important it is for the country to go to the next phase of new technologies. Will one reasonably ask this: are there political differences in how one party or another sees the development of new technologies? Of course there are, and they're very deep. I think that a careful observation of today's debate can identify them and I will give you examples. Mr. Koumoutsakos was invited to join 23-1-2015 in order to fully cover Greece with the digital television signal. You did not disobey, 23-1-2015. Does this date remind you of anything? It is two days before the January 2015 elections. In other words, on Friday, when Mr Samaras gathered in the Constitution, Mr. Menellas Daskalakis worked and incorporated programs - he said - to cover the whole territory with a television signal. What kind of programs? Programs that they predicted what? To use local government European resources and resources to fill the gap not covered by DIGEA. And he had timelines - outrageously - such as a timetable for the implementation of a six-month physical project, where in six months' time it would also be approved by the European Union, he would go through state aid, the spatial studies would be done, subsidies would be made and kernel systems would be installed. Funny things! I did not expect this example to come with so much emphasis here, to criticise our priority and policy, which says that with resources from the National Committee for Telecommunications and Posts, which come from the telecommunications providers, we will fill the gaps, where they exist. Consider the political and ideological difference, the difference of priorities and bias. The choice of the New Democracy was a choice to transfer the costs of non-covering a television signal to public resources, to local government resources or to European resources. Our choice, of course, is different. It's a redistribution option and it's a choice of equality. For example, although there is, I think, a confusion - because I have also heard Mr Yoyakas in his position, and I do not understand what the priority of the New Democracy is - in relation to the development of the networks of the new generation and our priority in making use of European funds to develop fibre optic networks. I also heard that we should, he says, step on the stepping stone of the development of the existing technology, of copper technology, to go to the next one. That's what I think is, on the left and right, wrong. In other words, it is wrong to invest in a technology that has a finite potential for exploiting capabilities, developing applications, etc. and call again on you to go back to the next generation of investments, which are, of course, optical fibres, which can also cover up-to-date targets on the basis of the European Union Digital Agenda and, above all, make the lives of all citizens better. Watch out here the other ideological and political difference. Because if public intervention does not come to guarantee the development of the best and most advanced technologies where there is no commercial interest, the citizens of the remote regions will not be able to access the services that these technologies can provide. I live in an area of the center of Athens. It is very likely, because it is densely populated, one or even two providers may develop fibre optic networks. I had a debate the other day with a professional from the telecommunications industry, who lives in an area in the city of Milan, which has residents with good incomes and a chance to spend money. He explained that three telecommunications providers have developed fibre optic networks, but in rural areas none. Take note, then, of what the digital divide is and where the difference of priorities is and where the real political disagreement is about how these technologies should be developed. Because, ladies and gentlemen, if this thing does not find out, we will have exploited the wave of the technological revolution that is currently happening in such a way that it will dramatically increase inequalities. Drama! It is a technology that has thousands of applications, applications that relate to all aspects of human life, its relationships with public administration, the way it employs health services, the way it can produce, invest, explain to its neighbour or to a resident in another remote area what happens in his place, and those possibilities cannot be reduced for some and others guaranteed. Alas, if as a Greek parliament, as political forces, we have not come to the conclusion that strong and public intervention, the priorityisation of equality between citizens in relation to access to these technologies is not necessary! If we do not draw that conclusion and if we leave this money to be secured by the European Union, these resources will become a vehicle, in order to increase the already existing inequalities, which have increased in the time of the memorandums. Imagine a resident of a region which is not able to be interconnected in high-speed networks, which has exactly the same nominal income as a resident in an area that is interconnected in the networks that ensure high-speed services. Telemedicine, services by municipalities, cheaper municipal fees. I could speak for too long, but I will not do so, about what the range of services is, which can improve the lives of citizens. This improvement must be guaranteed for everyone. We must bring tomorrow, for all of us, not last night to serve the few and the other parties. Because, unfortunately, this has been the case, ladies and gentlemen. This was also the case with the Timariotism, which the Greek State had demonstrated for years, in terms of the development of information and communication technology projects, where each body made its own orders. There was no design from the public sector and no possibility of using the public displacement, to negotiate better terms in the contracts signed with the private sector, resulting in - which, of course, the services of the European Union - the suspicion that the orders were written not to the public authorities, but to some private agencies. So there must be - and there is at the moment - a complete reversal of priorities. The public for the first time designs, hierarchies and proceeds with the execution of projects based on its own needs, not without planning, to reach phenomena that are truly grieving, such as a hospital having three different information systems within it, which do not communicate with each other. Watch waste: There are three different systems in one health unit, I tell you. I am not telling you that within the health sector, the Ministry of Health and its countless bodies there was one body that had a system and another that had another system that could not communicate. No, this isn't about it. This is an extreme example, which shows exactly how the information and communication projects in Greece were working. I therefore think that the political system is also growing slowly and we will discuss these things and, in the light of the priorities that each individual has. Because by simply changing to Stepma and saying what good new technologies are, very little service we offer the world, to understand what this is about and to draw conclusions from the situation that we have experienced. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that we are discussing a very critical issue, because it also relates to the role that the country can and must play internationally. The country can and must play internationally, coming out of the crisis, the role of the telecommunications, transport and large infrastructure node. And to play this role, it needs reliable networks. And reliable networks do not mean attaching to technologies that are ready to overcome at the moment and have shown their limits. It means a jump and investment in technologies that will withstand time and catch a place and the money that will be spent. Let me now go in particular: Greece, ladies and gentlemen, has had the well-known problem of heresy. Of course, there were calls not to talk about the past. But to explain what we're doing now, we can't explain where we started. The problem of heresy was the blocking of funds of EUR 1.2 billion, which had to do with information and communication projects. In order to remove this heresy, a body should be set up to conduct a digital policy - as we do - and a national digital strategy should be tabled. Because I heard we didn't have a strategy. We didn't have a strategy. We have now officially acquired a digital strategy, with the boulder, in consultation with our partners too. These steps recognize: the establishment of the General Secretariat for Digital Policy, the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information and on the basis of these steps we are illustrating the country's progress. For the first time, the country has strategy. I didn't expect to hear that the Ministry is a scumbag. The trend, honourable Members of the New Democracy, is precisely the unification of the telecommunications, content and information systems portfolios. That's the trend. This is how portfolios are integrated at European Union level too. I therefore think that we do not need to make criticism here, which is not on earth, but rather to speak too much about it. We are prepared not to talk about the past and talk about the future. As I have explained to you, I think there really is a field of very serious political disagreements about how Greece will handle the exploitation of these new technologies, but I think it is a prerequisite that you do not try to put your own sins on us. This is an honest policy of understanding, to which I invite you to come forward and conclude it. Because, of course, the country is twenty-sixth and twenty-eight, and that is where it will remain, if we adopt many of the proposals that have been heard at the moment by New Democracy. It will remain there if we relaunch the project ordering method without planning to serve specific interests. That will remain if we invest in the technologies that have shown their limits and do not go to the next generation of technologies. I therefore think that this is also an area where there can be an honest political debate and, of course, we can be productive and give the Greek citizen a sense of where we coincide, where we disagree and make his choices as to what priorities our country should make. I come to that particular point, and I will be very brief, with the promise to try to get all the issues done in my dentistry as well. In relation to the National Broadband Plan, it has been formally submitted by Greece to the European Union at the end of June 2015 and was adopted at the end of September 2015. Since then, the Directorate-General for Telecommunications and Post, in cooperation with the institutions of the European Union, the experts of the World Bank and other bodies, have proceeded with the preparatory actions necessary to develop and specialise the actions provided for in the approved project. In this process, extensive market consultations were required, as only one provider was able to produce investment capital for the development of a private network. In mid-September 2016, the European Commission announced updated connectivity targets. While the Digital Agenda for Europe 2020 aims to ensure a 30 Mbps connection to all citizens and to 100 Mbps online for 50% of citizens, the new objectives provide for symmetrical speeds of the 1 Gbps for public services, industries, educational institutions, etc. and speeds of at least 100 Mbps with capacity to upgrade 1 Gbps for dwellings. This change had to be monitored, and that is why we also updated the National Broadband Plan. I do not understand the criticism. What should we say: We have an Broadband Plan, new objectives are being introduced by the European Union, our country is a pig, and we are going to stay in the old? Won't we incorporate the political will to go to the generation of technologies that ensure the greatest speed, and of course, as I said before, and the multitude of applications that can improve citizens' lives? Secondly, with regard to the timetables for the Rural Extension and the SuperFast Broadband, taking into account new developments and the development of privately owned providers’ infrastructure, the Directorate-General for Telecommunications submitted updated specialisation sheets for the two projects, namely the SuperFast Broadband and the ‘Reasonal Broadband Extension’ action. With this work goes the optical fiber to five thousand seven hundred settlements in the province, the so-called 'Rural 2', which concerns the non-urban areas and, of course, the work on the high-speed connections that have to do with the urban areas. These projects were submitted to the Special Operational Programme Management Agency “Competitiveness - Entrepreneurship - Innovation”, the so-called PAENEC, and the updated Specialisation Bulletins were approved on 10 May 2017. In the context of this planning, we are in close cooperation with the relevant EU services and other stakeholders. According to the timetables set, the objective is to launch notice procedures for both projects at the beginning of next year. Regarding the taking of actions for the digital transformation of Greece and the promoted social actions of the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, I have had the opportunity to refer to the subsidised satellite access to the areas where there is no signal, for which I committed myself to a timely question that was discussed just before we started this question and I said that by the end of the year we will be able to launch this measure as well. It is a measure which demonstrates precisely that we are prioritising equality of access for citizens and guaranteeing their right to access to the Greek television product. Of course, I will now go a little beyond the arguments which can only be addressed to unrelated people. I think Mr Kumoucasos did so at the edge of his speech, because he referred to the number of channels, to which I referred to one of the visits to the province we made, because I was talking about the number of channels offered by satellite connection and not the free-take channels, that is to say the channels provided through the installed antennas of the network, not satellite dishes and the contract that everyone has with a satellite television platform. There's water in the groove. He understands us a lot of people now. It is good from this one that the Step forward does not emit such inaccuracies. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Action titled "Supported broadband links to undergraduate first-year students of universities for TEI and TEI" is already in operation and the beneficiaries of this action are about fifty thousand students throughout the territory. It is a matter of days to sign the ministerial decision on the action of providing free broadband Internet connection for permanent residents of remote islands in the country. We will be in a position very quickly and in a few days to announce it, while we are working on introducing additional measures for accessibility and convenience for disabled people. I will stop here, Mr President, and use my dentistry as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u68	You'll have another 15 minutes after your dentistry, Minister. Thank you very much. Parliament's time is now starting. As usual, the parliamentary spokesman of the party is always ahead of him, whose Members have tabled the question. So Mr Kefaloyannis Ioannis, Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy and MP Rethymnon, has the floor. Here, Mr. Kefaliannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u69	Thank you very much, Mr President. I think, Minister, that you will agree with me that the transition and adaptation to the digital age at the moment is not a question of choice for our country. I'd say it's kind of a survival issue. Digital technology also changes almost everything, that is, the economic issue and the labour issue and consumption and the state, all aspects. It has created new business models, new products, opened new distribution channels and of course has cultivated new digital skills, has changed the relationship between the state and the citizens. Those states which do not participate in the digital revolution - which I think we all agree at the moment - will simply cease to belong to the developed states. Those businesses or citizens who do not follow this change, unfortunately, are in a very risk of being left out of the way. This anguish, Minister, we wish to express ourselves as a Qualified Opposition, as a New Democracy, through the timely question that we have tabled to you and which we are, of course, discussing today. We are doing this because we have too many and serious doubts as to whether the present Government, the Government of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks, has really realised what is at stake today in relation to the international competitiveness of our economy, the production of innovation, the future requirements of professionals and, of course, even with the continuing leakage of scientists, who unfortunately tend to end up irreversible, the famous 'brain drain'. I am referring to the government as a whole - and the New Democracy Members who spoke before - and not only to the Ministry in which you are leading for a very specific reason and certainly not by accident: the issue of the digital strategy, as much as you have an increased responsibility, goes beyond you as a ministry. So, normally, today, they should have been sitting in ministerial seats, for example, Mrs Gerovasili, Mr Spirtzis, Mr Haritsis, Mr Gavroglou, to give an answer to the issues raised by my fellow Members. To explain to us, the Minister of Education because, for example, while the market needs and does not find IT engineers, we only have 4% of the graduates in these schools and because over 50%, that is, more than half of the schools in general, are not generally related to the needs of the market. Unfortunately, the explanation is simple. I shall refer, for example, to the issue of the Soviet Union, where there were tails for the products and at the same time there were very large quantities of these products in demand. Thus, unfortunately, only 4% of graduates in Greece study in Informatics. At the same time, the state has chosen to share positions in higher education in this way. It is an issue that, as I said, goes beyond you as a ministry, but at some point it must be put into a wider debate and a wider debate. In Greece of the 21st century, ladies and gentlemen, bureaucracy often knows the needs of people, perhaps better than themselves. But when, for example, you share positions in higher education in the way it is done, that is to say in the card, people will unfortunately get their share of the share that will fall on them. I wonder if you have been asked questions about the design of the digital strategy that you have drawn up, that is, if it has, even fleeing from your mind that the liberalisation of higher education and vocational education from the suffocating embrace of the state should perhaps be the first and most important reform to tackle the crisis, but also for the transition of Greece to the new digital age. If so, shouldn't you, Minister, have you come to elementary consultation with your colleague, the Minister of Education, and come to a specific project when you know that in the next 90% years, about 90%, of jobs will require digital skills? The second reason why we are monitoring you today is obviously because we expect you to take some steps and of course not some digital leap. We'd be naive too, but I think the government too, if we thought you could do this in a couple of days. The digital leap will only be able to come after the fundamental missing prerequisites are met today. The implementation of a grid of prerequisites and self-evident actions which must be initiated immediately is what we are asking you to do, Minister. To turn an analogue - within or out of import - into a state that constantly asks citizens the same information - perhaps more than once - into a digital state that collects this information on its own, for us it is not a digital leap. The absorption of Community funds, the reduction of the taxation of telecommunications services that are one of the most expensive in Europe, the introduction of digital signatures, the simplification of the regulatory framework for the licensing of broadband networks, the exercise of a new policy of open data that facilitates the business, all of this is not a digital leap, but a precondition for the digital transformation of Greece. A prerequisite is also a change of attitude to transition from a state-enterprise, an exclusive provider of public services to a state that manages public services, which, of course, also assigns the private sector to carry out them. Unfortunately here, ladies and gentlemen, we are very far behind. I will only focus on an example of the flagship of this government's attitude, the way in which it handled the issue of switching from analogue to terrestrial digital broadcasting of television programmes. Unfortunately, political careers were built, parliamentary careers at SYRIZA on anti-canalism and mythology that the "ERT" was closed so that DIGEA would not lose its monopoly on network services. Of course, no one from the coup d'état has ever explained, neither at the time nor now, whose money would be maintained for the private transmission network of the ERT and how it would bring back the money of this investment, when we know very well that the European Commission does not allow the development of commercial activities, for example through the transfer of third-party programmes. How many of the Coupling Members have read a small phrase in Article 2 of Law No.4324/2015, in which you artificially omit to mention all of the Government, which says ‘the ERT may be a provider of content and a network provider for the transmission of programmes to third parties if it falls within the purpose of the public interest service’. Who of the Government will explain to the Greek citizens why it is appreciably bad or neoliberal, as you call it, to implement a public service, such as the transfer of the terrestrial 'ERT' signal via a private body, when what the 'ERT' is currently paying is the rent on the DIGEA network - that we can discuss - but at the same time saves, for example, the maintenance, payroll, spare parts, travel and investment costs and the creation of transmitters. Who will explain, Minister, why has the tender for the acquisition of a digital network been submitted to the Court for the fifth time? Will you confirm to us, Minister, the advisability of a smaller competition at around 1 million for the supply of fewer digital transmissions? Of course we are waiting for the answers to this issue from you. Because it is good to have anti-Canalism coming out of some MPs from SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks to build, as I said before, political careers and often win elections, but reality not only imposes other approaches, but unfortunately it is already avenged many times. The reality is that the digital revolution in all its manifestations - if it ever comes to Greece - will not come from the state, but will come from society, businesses and, of course, citizens themselves. Whether you have a plan, of course, if you wish to support it, not only is it not a given one at all, but today it is what is being called, and even more than never. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u70	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure, the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Katsis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u71	Mr President, may I speak after my colleague of the Democratic Alliance?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u72	This is done in the draft law. The Rules of Procedure are clear. If the other Members have no objection, then you can stay last.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u73	I have no objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u74	Mr. Katsy, you can speak last. Therefore, Mr Loverdos, a parliamentary representative of the Democratic Integration, is now speaking in Athens.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as today, Andrew Papandreou, the leader who did not just give hope to Greeks and Greek women, acted on the hope and the right of the people for a better life. Thanks to Andrew Papandreou, many were able to gain access to what until then only the few had access. Minister, a few days ago I spoke about Greece, whose government is allegedly negotiating, but on all its internal issues, the big issues are an example of an inalienable state. And the case of waste today - and the contractors we spoke so much about with your colleague in the parliamentary control procedure - is very characteristic. Ladies and gentlemen, in this Chamber on 30 March, in the face of a trial in the Council of State, which had spoken too much on health services matters, I had asked Mrs Gerovas: 'There is a more general problem. How will you deal with it?" and we had emphasised the discussion on cleanliness. And we were also offered for the legal matters that we happen to know how to help if the House wanted to do so on the initiative of the government, which is a majority. And he said he'd ask for our opinion. Of course she didn't ask. Of course, no party has consulted about a problem that is really timed, but which has been updated by the closure of SYRIZA and ANLE to the contractors in the area of cleanliness that it will permanently simulate them. See the Minutes of that timely question. Mrs Gerovaci had said that there is a need for a permanent solution. And all pro-government literature, newspapers, and sychts, as soon as she finished her speech, they said that contractors would be permanentized. That's what they wrote. On 30 March this was the case. And the Court of Auditors has come to tell you that you do not have unlimited possibilities for renewing and that you cannot perpetuate the contractors. And now, three months later, what's going to happen? Greece at the mercy of events as an inalienable state? Now what do you think? Now what are you gonna say? We are telling us today where the solutions are. And there are also the most persuasive experts in our communication thoughts. But now you're in 'and five'. Now you need to give it a solution. Let's see if you promised what wasn't done and shut your eye in the form of election clientele, what are you going to say? It is so clear and so clear in the 'and five' that you are - on 'and ten' - that you cannot make another mockery of contractors. Here and now with Greece in this waste situation, you must give a solution. Secondly, Mr Minister, a few days ago you spent this House with the government's responsibility and your own rules concerning the media. You have adapted yourself to the decision of the Council of State, and you have, by your regulation, limited the ability of the Greek State to have conditions of freedom in the authorisation of the media. Would you please give me the opinion given by the National Broadcasting Council? Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u76	Hello?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u77	He'll answer when his time comes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u78	He didn't hear it. Can you present us here today, until the end of the procedure, with the opinion of the PSE, on the provision you have passed? You are now aware of the last case law of the Council of State - the latter - that for some things you are legislating is due under the Constitution to have the opinion of the National Broadcasting Council. Can you testify to us, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u79	I'll testify to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u80	Have you asked for her? Do you have it? Does your partners have it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u81	We've received her confidential...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u82	No, you haven't received any confidential ones. He had to accompany the file on the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u83	Mr. Loverdos, you have made a request and when the Minister's time comes, he will answer you. Don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u84	I was not a parliamentary representative that day. He had to accompany the file on the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u85	We didn't receive it, Mr. Loverdo. Retrospectively.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u86	If you hadn't asked for it - I don't know it - and this law is yours. And there is a new delay in licensing the channels with your personal responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u87	Do we create a delay? But what else are we gonna hear?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u88	Of course you do.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u89	Minister, you have 15 minutes. You'll answer. Don't take a vacation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u90	And not just that. At the Conference of Presidents a few weeks ago, we asked you to resolve the issue of their contributions. The way you solve it doesn't go any further in practice. You create terms of suffocation in the institution that are important members of the institution. You haven't solved that either. It is now clear, after that, if there is no opinion of the PSE on the majority amendment, it is also an unconstitutional one. And you're here to testify to us today. In the accompanying amendments you did not have it, Mr Minister. In conclusion, we all have the opportunity to make common assumptions, dramatically delayed, but, Minister. Have you done as a government the right to have the formal and practical conditions of the digital economy? You said, say, say. Are we able to escape from the last position among the Member States of the European Union on these matters? Do we have to repeat the self-evident things in the Chamber? I won't. Values and principles in this regard are obvious, they are clear, they are obvious. The topical and urgent debate of the New Democracy colleagues has highlighted them. And you accept them. On this point, however: do you have the impression, Minister, that the time of the government and administration is different, is different from that of the citizens and the administrations? An operation in six months' delay to become an energy is being destroyed. An economy that needs growth stimulus, when the government is slowing down, has more problems. Do you think the two-and-a-half years you're in the government are minimal? Two and a half years is a long time. What is it you have to show in addition to the supposedly so-called approach to the issues of the digital economy and technology? What does it mean to have another opinion? To understand it, in practical and adequate terms, though. With theories, no more! You considered two and a half years. Now, on this point, how do we get rid of the last positions, among the Member States of the European Union? And I close: Is it compatible with the development part of the entire debate your MPs should participate in the antenna movements? Is it or is it not the same logic as what you do for the Greek as your MPs? Have you realised what you are told from everywhere, that now that the so-called negotiation is over, will you be judged on education? Mr. Gabroglou will be judged on what he says about asylum, about what he says about the university. You will be judged for the digital economy. The other ministers will be judged on the economy, on all issues of Greece. Today you are judged by Greek citizens for waste. You realize that here you are not to say what is left of me, but to do. Have you realised that from the theory you should sometime pass into practice? And how many years do you want, if you don't understand, to understand? I hope that in your dentext, we will see something more specific, we will hear something more specific about what you have to do tomorrow rather than time or ten years later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, as we heard from Mr Loverdos twenty-one years ago, Andrew Papandreou died. Regardless of the view that each one of us can have and, above all, the people, he was a political leader who sealed a part of modern Greek political history. On behalf of the Bureau and the House, therefore, I would like to say that we also honour the memory of Andreas Papandreou. We now move to the Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, MP of the 1st Thessaloniki, Antonio Gregos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. At the same time, it is being discussed in the Committee on Morphic Affairs and a bill on sport, a bill with very large social implications. And of course, this came in the form of an emergency. As far as today is concerned: The time we are currently experiencing is certainly a time for new technological challenges. In the context of these challenges, the implementation of new digital application policies and the broad use of the online platform plays a key role. It is known that the European Union has been making some efforts in recent years to strengthen the competent authorities, which have as their objective and purpose the modernisation and provision of more comprehensive broadband services even in the most remote regions of the Member States. With the adoption of directives and related regulations, the supranational organisation of the European Union aims at the judicial consolidation and the establishment of a common institutional and legal framework for the use and implementation of Internet applications. Furthermore, it is clear that online services have been fully integrated into the daily lives of citizens worldwide and form an integral part of state and social function. Therefore, digital policy is one of the most important issues that they are dealing with and will in future employ the governments and the political system in general. Digital transformation is a concept that runs all economic and social sectors. A brief reference to interbank transactions made via the Internet and, of course, to the widespread and daily use of social media demonstrates the social and economic importance of choosing to implement a sound digital policy. As representatives of the Greek nationalists in the Greek Parliament, we consider it appropriate to stress that the country's digital transformation must be carried out through a coordinated national action plan so that, on the one hand, the appropriate conditions of access to Greek citizens and, on the other, public services can be digitised, with the aim of achieving economic growth and optimising the level of service, especially now that the technical economic crisis, which the well-known loan sharks have imposed on the Greek people, is urgent for the Greek governments to find the appropriate solutions to help people adapt to the new conditions. Until today, when we were called upon to place ourselves on digital transformation in our country, many problems exist and many projects have not been completed. For example, the project to develop broadband infrastructure in rural areas and so-called ‘white areas’ has not been perfected, so that the inhabitants of those areas do not have normal access to internet services. Such a characteristic example is that of Eastern Man, which has great tourist development. The need therefore arises for the entire coverage of the Greek territory by providing the Internet. In order to do this, however, it is clear that there must be a political will to develop and complete infrastructure projects. In this respect, the information and assurances of the competent bodies converge to the position that the targets set by the Digital Agenda 2020, as well as the National Broadband Access Plan 2014-2020 will be undertaken by the General Secretariat of Telecommunications and Postal, which plans to draw up new projects for 100% coverage of the Greek territory by 2020, so that infrastructure projects for the installation of optical fibres must be continued and completed as soon as possible. We have to ask ourselves, however, what companies of interest are taking over the implementation of these projects. It is known to everyone that the largest part of the pie takes the foreign financial interests that are involved in OTE and in particular the German interest company "Deutsche Telekom", which is alleged to have purchased most of OTE's share package. Therefore, the Agency responsible for the integration of broadband infrastructures is of foreign economic interest. Golden Dawn has different positions regarding organisations providing social benefits and it is clear that these agencies must be entirely public and national. According to the declaration of the project to implement technical broadband infrastructures in rural areas, it appears that the project contractor had the right to declare a certain percentage of population coverage without having to cover all of the settlements. Obviously, we are opposed to such contractual conditions being contained in the works to be carried out under which the technical companies are bound, and we propose that such decisions should be taken exclusively by governmental bodies. Governmental bodies must have full responsibility for the excellent execution and completion of the project. Ultimately, we are proposing a clear and substantial strengthening of the powers of the government institutions on at least one basic condition, that their criteria of operation and decision-making will be based solely on national needs. This will be achieved through a purely domestic legislative initiative rather than by imposing and adopting relevant legislation from European fora. An important bet that those responsible must make and gain for the benefit of the citizens is clearly the interconnection of all the public bodies so that the phenomenon of bureaucracy is drastically hit, which undeniably agitates the Greek public and is the fear of the Greek citizen, when it comes to all kinds of public services, but also to foreigners. I would like to refer to Samaras' announcements three years ago, when he also promised citizens free internet throughout the country. At that time, it had been discussed in a variety of ways and the statement was the subject of a satire, which was obviously a voter's cause and was a means of impressive and attracting youth. Today, after three years, free internet provision does not exist. There is no free internet provision in museums or other points of cultural, tourist and professional interest, such as museums, archaeological sites, public services, court buildings and others. So what digital transformation do we talk about when in 2017 there are still identified problems and major deficiencies? [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] Let us all bend our heads and work so that the country reaches the desired level of digital capabilities, with a clear focus on protecting national interests and, of course, on the service of Greek citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u93	Mr Papachristopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Madam President. I said that at least today is not the issue of hard opposition tone. I have listened curiously to Mr Loverdo almost indifferent to the issue, which I believe is very important and very serious. First of all, I would like to welcome all the six questions raised by the New Democracy in its question. I am pleased that this is called 'principal parliamentary work'. If he's right or not, we can see. But, really, it's a healthy field of confrontation, where if we've done something wrong, we have to fix it, and if we haven't, then we have to say what we've done. I would like to begin by reminding you - because high tones do not like - that for the first time there is a satellite launched a week ago, and this is a flagrant proof that for years the country has been abandoned in terms of digitisation, IT and e-government. That was only a week ago. Let me also remind you - and above all because the tone from New Democracy was at least on another level - that to join the social solidarity allowance, you do not go to catch the MP of your neighborhood, but you enter an Electronic Gate and tells you whether or not you are entitled to it. I would also remind you that in the extrajudicial compromise, the Electronic Gate opens in August and there some four hundred thousands of entrepreneurs will see whether and how they can regulate their loans, debts, etc. It made me a terrible impression that a small island has energy self-sufficiency. I remember when this happened in Denmark, thirty years ago, and I am surprised that Tilos shows the way. It's a long story. It is supported by WWF and by the University of Piraeus. To me, it's a fact that points to something. To me, it's not just an interesting matter, but it's a top one. It can't be better than that. I would like to make a small parentheses and say that the industrial revolution that took place in the beginning of the last century was really a punch in the stomach for the prisoners. They hadn't gotten a hold of what was going on and many went into factories at night, thinking they'd lose their job, destroy the machines and something like that. With regard to information technology, digital revolution, e-government, which concerns us today, some people had not suspected what is happening at that time. They couldn't imagine that with a device you could do the job from your house, work from your home, or do dozens of things. I want historically to remind you that when Vide Surf joined the eight bulk computers on a Maryland military base, no one understood what was happening. Two Greeks, however, Nick Negrepode, who lives even above seventy-five years old - comes to Patmos, where I am going, and we see one time - and the late Michalis Dertouzos, who is from the same island as Nikita Kaklamanis, were the people who established the public character of the internet and made this revolution accessible throughout the planet. Tim Burners Lee came later, a European who went to the MIT, and made the web, a step unbelievable. Then no one understood what these people were doing. I would therefore like to say - because I saw Mr Loverdo very acutely - that this was not a year and a half ago, which SYRIZA governs. They started somewhere fifty-five years ago. Go back to the first fifteen, we didn't get a ham, go to the first 20, we didn't get a ham, then what exactly did we do? In fact, Commissioner Johannes Khan himself comes by letter at that time and says: 'Hey, what are you guys doing here in Greece with e-government?' We're losing 1,200,000 euros. We don't have a plan. We don't have anything. We don't exist anywhere. I don't know how aggressive you can be when you've done absolutely nothing. I am not talking now about the New Democracy. It's an answer to Andreas Loverdos. I heard him. From 2007 to 2013, we could not absorb any NSRF funds. We lost 1,200,000 euros from this story. I don't see this thing as confrontation, though. I think it's a nice question and we need to see it with respect. I have listened very carefully to the Minister - who is a high-ranking ministry for me - and I want to say this. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] How much time do I have, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u95	You're done, Mr. Papachristopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u96	Don't I have a minute, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u97	I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u98	I would like to remind you that the national ID system, which took off Estonia, has been voted on in the Greek Parliament. I say it for those who don't remember it. It is the programme to vote on e-justice - what tortures decades and could have been solved - that judicial decisions could be taken no later than fifteen to twenty days. It's something that's planned and done. Also, public procurement must also enter them. It has been announced by the Minister responsible, and I think it will be soon. I would also like to remind you that this government did the "one-stop Services", which we voted four months ago. Olga, Gerovali, had come here. To build a business, we needed more than six months and infinite signatures. That's no longer true. I do not have the requirement to have the online governance they have in America, where everything operates transparently. I want to say a good reason. PASOK made the e-prescription, which I asked for twenty-two years. Do you know who they were responding to then? The Civic Opposition was reacting. I don't want to remind you of what happened at the Ministry then by your own people. The only one who supported e-government - which was actually brought by PASOK - was New Democracy. I also want to say about electronic invoices. We've got to get this over with with corruption. I would also like to remind you that no one prevented the parties that have ruled for forty years for electronic payments. Only the Bank of Greece gave one and a half billion new profits from the fact that we have already started and are paying for plastic money. Without wanting to take another time, what I mean to say is that I believed and believe that bureaucracy, corruption and the customer state end with e-government, the digital age and all that technology. I want to set an example and close. Estonia was not even a state. It was a province of the Soviet Republics. Today it has taken a major step in the global classification of countries that have adapted to digitalisation and is a tenth third country. Its unemployment rate is around 6.7%, which is a relatively good percentage. It has therefore shown the way for us to move forward, if we want real growth in the country, if we want to get away from this loop and to finish up and get the country on a new path. I have the feeling that this government is struggling with fingernails and teeth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u99	Thank you. Mr. Black, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u100	Thank you very much, Madam President. In six minutes, of course, I will not be able to deal with the more specific points in the question, so let me refer to the more general aspects of our country's digital path. We are already in the era of the digital revolution, at a time when digital transformation extends and changes the models of administration of countries, businesses and the lives of citizens. Countries that have been aware, prepared and adapted, and in particular have gone ahead and innovated in various areas of the digital agenda - we have heard Mr Papachristopoulos mentioning Estonia, which is a very good example - also gain a huge comparative advantage, which, however, needs to be maintained continuously. Unfortunately, Greece is in the last place in the rankings. It is third from the end between the twenty-eight countries of the European Union, according to the updated index for 2017 of the European Commission for the Digital Economy and Society. Evidently, shaping this performance is not the result of SYRIZA's current governance alone, but it reveals the structural inertia, the fragmentary movements and the delayed initiatives of all previous governments. However, here, let me take note of something that SYRIZA is used to say, by laying down responsibilities - and rightly to a certain extent - for the previous ones. Especially in the area of digital convergence, the argument that others were ruling for forty years, while only two and a half, cannot be directly, proportionately and linearly. So what may not have happened for many years and for various reasons does not mean that it cannot be done now, in less time, by exploiting developments and capabilities in the digital world. As long as there's a framework. This is where the state must develop and above all implement sustainable strategic plans for the digitalisation of its structures, functions and of course the environment in which all players and shareholders are active. We now have a Ministry responsible for digital policy. The point is to explain exactly what it is doing in the direction, firstly, of building effective public policies, secondly, of developing infrastructure and, thirdly, of speeding up the procedures for the country's digital transformation. The development of a suitable digital environment will lead to the exploitation of state-of-the-art technologies such as the Internet of Things and, of course, the dissemination of smart Grids in the energy sector and the consolidation of the utility of decentralised production. In our country, the development of digital infrastructure, especially in telecommunications, can contribute actively to decentralisation, because the disadvantages of the remote regions are reduced and, therefore, an injection of stimulus for regional development can be given. The digital age certainly needs infrastructure, but it also wants human resources. Human resources, human capital, our country has. It has excellent, well-trained scientists and technicians across the range of digital technologies, systems and applications. Our young people, however, are leaving abroad, and this brain leak, this intellectual capital leak, to the greatest extent, shows the need to speed up the setting up of the right framework in order to thrive on enterprises that will support these young scientists. We should at last do something and keep the new children here, rather than be simple observers and mourn for Brain Drain. For example, exploiting the increasingly richer open and public data can create a whole new field for young scientists who deal with their respective management and presentation applications. The multiplier benefits of all of these will trigger both innovation and the creation of small dynamic startups. So here too, education and all levels of education play a key role. To start from the early years of the children at school, to reinvigorate the digital school, which, apart from the first contact of students with new technologies, contributes and reduces educational inequalities. I hope, finally, that the government will speed up in this area, with the cooperation of the Ministries of Digital Policy and Education. As long as you do not believe that the technological means are sterilising the teaching relationship, they are sterilizing it, and they tend to abolish it, as the first Minister for Education of your Government, Mr Baltas, and other partners, when it comes to technology issues in the Committee on Education. Creation and culture of education for citizens from primary to higher education, through new technologies or lifelong learning, is an objective that should have employed the state for many years. Because I like to talk and mention examples, let us see how they succeeded in countries that did not theoretically have the digital lead in relation to us, countries that have made significant progress in recent years, such as the Czech Republic, Slovenia, Latvia, Slovakia or Estonia, the good example. In fact, Slovenia and Slovakia took the largest step forward in the ‘DESI’ indicator for 2017, with an increase of more than seven percentage points in the last year. So why are they doing it? According to studies, improving the digital maturity of Greece by 2021 could lead to a strengthening of Greek GDP from 2.6% to 4%, equivalent to an increase in Greek GDP by 2021 by 4.9 billion to 7.6 billion euros. This additional growth of the economy can involve, as we have said before, the so-called Brain drain and create, as the recent BSE study says, a minimum of fifty thousand new jobs. So our country must converging with the other European countries and digital convergence is one of the most necessary conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, too, for the accuracy of time. Mr. Marios Katsis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Madam President. You will allow me to speak a little on a subject to which Mr Loverdos and the Democratic Alliance have referred, which was off the agenda and which concerns contractors. I would also like to say to Mr Loverdos and to the Democratic Reconciliation, but also to the governments that have been ruling in previous years, that the Court of Auditors did not refer the government to the issue of contractors. The Central Association of Municipalities of Greece appealed, unless Patolis is SYRIZA and I don't know it. That's the first. Secondly, the government is on the side of the workers and will take advantage of this decision of the Court of Auditors and will amend all the necessary provisions so that there is not one day that the contractors will be unpaid, but also that the hostage status that the former governments held and maintained in order to maintain political benefits in every national election is finally terminated. Also, a legislative body - and I am addressing the Democratic Incorporation again - is not the National Broadcasting Council. The legislative body is Parliament, Parliament. So the amendment made in the previous bill by the Minister for Digital Policy, on the quality of the channel signal, is an initiative by the Government. And she must be. I do not understand why Parliament and the executive should legislate under the terms of the National Broadcasting Council. I don't understand that thing. As I also do not understand how we can confuse things and situations. In other words, we should not legislate on the possibility that the stations that will be licensed and sent to free reception and broadcast will be high-definition, in other words, high-definition? That's where technology goes. Then there will be new technology, which will replace high definition and will be extra high definition and so on. What are we gonna do? We're going back? Let me go to the main theme of the conversation. I would like to begin with abundantly, expressing sincere thanks to the Civic Opposition, which, on its initiative for today's topical question, enables the government to unfold the vedals of digital policy and enable citizens to judge the enormous qualitative difference compared to the previous governments in this area. By analyzing the question of the New Democracy, for which today's debate is taking place, I see that it overlaps the research of the "DESI" for 2017, which ranks our country twenty-sixth among the twenty-sixths in terms of the performance of digital technology. What Qualified Opposition does not mention in the question is, of course, that, according to this survey, we have significantly improved the infiltration indicators in digital technology by 8.6% compared to last year. A second element, which you deliberately do not mention, is that in 2014 and 2015 again, we were twenty-eight. Unless you count it backwards, that we were second, but from the end. But the other one is. So there is no such thing as your alleged deterioration in the situation. However, the time-consuming bad performance of the country - and we do not hide that - exists in this area. These performances, together with the long way that the Greek Government had to go, in order to cover the essential inactivity of years, were the reason why it first pushed the government into the history of the place to recommend the Ministry of Digital Policy. This creation was necessary, as the National Digital Policy Strategy could not go any differently. So the weight shown by the government in this area is given and undeniable. As is undeniable, it is also lack of central planning by previous governments. Where did this nonexistence lead us? It has led us to the multiplier of the digital systems necessary for the operation of the public sector. It has led us to a coup d'état, which only served the companies that supplied these systems, since they have been working with a huge margin of profit and have never served the purpose for which they were supplied. Despite the highest price for the public funds, this practice kept its efficiency extremely low, due to the large number of different applications, which created incompatibilities. The reason for this was, of course, the lack of a National Digital Strategy. I urge you here, Minister, to search extensively the contractors for the period 2007-2013, on the supply of digital policy systems, and I assure you from this step that you will find inside things and miracles. The citizens must also at last learn how much they cost the Greek people and what their contribution to the public interest is. It'll be really very interesting. The Civic Opposition shows that she was born yesterday, renounced her governmental insufficiency, the results of which we are running to cover today. Nevertheless, I am pleased that the debate on such a serious sector is taking place today, which affects a number of indicators of the national economy. But let's go further. With regard to the Eureka networks and the lifting of digital isolation, I would like to say that for us it is not just a technological issue of digital convergence and of satisfying some indicators, but it is a deep democratic issue. With the State's intervention and the implementation of the ‘Rural Broadband’, the high-speed networks now reach areas where the private initiative would never invest because they did not have commercial interest. What we are interested in is summarised in what the Minister said in his speech very clearly 'we want tomorrow and for everyone'. No two-speed civilians, no exclusion. Fair growth with care to those in need of equilibrium and the reduction of social inequalities. Access for all citizens to new technologies, applications and broadband speeds of high-speed networks. At the same time, the draft law on high-speed electronic communications networks, which we have brought together and voted with a broad consensus in Parliament, aimed at reducing the costs of installation of broadband networks and restoring the legal gaps in completing communications work, such as coordination of operators and others, and it was a strong signal to the business community for investment in this sector. As you will well know, major investment projects, which concern the development and upgrading of new generation networks, have been announced by powerful telecommunications market players and are preparing to run in the coming years, while high-skilled jobs are being created. Fortunately for Greece we have a multitude of new scientists in this sector and they are looking for an opportunity to unfold their potential and talent. Projects of billions bring very high connection speeds and open new roads to the Greek economy and society tomorrow. For example, OTE announced 1 billion over the next four years, 500 million for "VODAFONE", 500 million for "WIND" and 500 million for "FORTHNET" in cooperation with ZTE, following the recent Minister's trip to China. The amounts, as you can see, are very large and the benefits for the economy are multiplier. Ladies and gentlemen, there is also the social part of the development of digital technologies, to which I wish to dwell because it is a priority for us. The Ministry promotes actions that require our attention. Such action is the free satellite access for residents of the remote areas of our country to Greek free-take stations. The fact that there are our fellow citizens - and many - who open up their televisions and watch 'black' is due to you, gentlemen of the New Democracy. It is also due to you in the monstrous contract you signed with DIGEA, which binds the Greek State about geographical and population coverage. In other words, in a village that has ten inhabitants and is not subject to such a dramatic change in the coverage rate, the contract should be legal. I am pleased, however, that in parliamentary scrutiny too earlier, we have seen the Minister answer on a timely basis. As it has been very well done in recent years by the Ministry by subsidising the equipment for free access of residents to digital television, in national sensitive and remote and forgotten areas, to gradually extend it to the extent possible for all the white areas that exist throughout the country and where there are these problems, as in my prefecture in Thesprotia in the villages of Morfi in the villages of Spatharaeans, but also in the villages of Murgana mentioned earlier and by the colleague of the New Democracy that we are from the same prefecture.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u103	Mr. Katsi, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u104	I shall conclude, Madam President. For us there are no citizens of two categories. We support and fight with this government so that the days of the patronages and patronages are over. The digital present and future of our country is an issue that does not raise micro-political concerns. We are well aware that if the country goes back to digital technologies, it will not be able to claim a good place in the European and global division of the future, as it is shaped at a rapid pace. We also know that before us we have an area almost untouched by all previous governments. The country's delay at the moment to reach the level of its partners, with hard work and effort, by means of a method, with perseverance, with strategy, will shed light on the differences and open up new opportunities with unlimited profits for the Greek society. Above all, however, because we all know that our country has a human potential, such as a human resource that can support the development of digital technologies and applications, to innovate, but also to take the lead, we must ensure the necessary tools, a safe environment, so that it can work, by exploiting its comparative advantages, high expertise and research. For these very reasons digital policy has an important role to play in our approach, both for the country's productive reconstruction and for the public administration and for the daily lives of its citizens. In conclusion, Minister, I am sure that tomorrow we will also win it for all citizens, with vision, with the lifting of the blockades and the fight against the distortions caused by state-owned parasiteism and political expressions over the years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u105	We've doubled your speaking time, Mr. Katsey. Don't just stay with the minister after! Ladies and gentlemen, Ms Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou has requested permission to go abroad, namely in France, for the period from 25 June to 29 June 2017. In addition, the MP Georgios Koumoutsakos is requesting a leave for absence abroad for personal reasons on 26 June and 27 June 2017. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u106	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations. I will now give the floor to Mrs Asimakopoulou, who has five minutes for her dentistry, and then Mr Stylos will take the floor for three minutes. Here, Mrs. Asmakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u107	Madam President, I imagine that, given the importance of this matter, I will also have a relative tolerance from you, as will the majority parliamentary representative. The Minister raised many issues. I will resist leaving out of the question, and I will stay on what is at the top of the question, Minister, and I will reply to you and the parliamentary representative. I will start with what you say about DESI, which truly saddens me for saying so, why not just is it a transgressive inaccuracy, but besides - how can I tell you? - It offends me for putting the cubit down so low. Invite 8.57% increase in a specific indicator. I have here the relevant document on the Minutes and I will submit it as soon as I finish. Indeed, we are twenty-six in connectivity. We were in 2016 and we were in 2017. We haven't changed our position. We went from number 0.35 to number 0.38. "Wow!" Mr Varoufakis would say! That's 8.35%, which you invoke! I would like to show you how ridiculous it is that you are saying, and regrettable at the same time, that you are accepting the Commissioner to give us congratulations that we have remained twenty-six, and that we have gone a little further than the bottom. Because that's what we're talking about. Integrating digital technology we were twenty-five and fell to twenty-three. We're twenty-thirds, we've lost two seats. However, in relation to the other states, we went up 14.5%. Congratulations! I would ask you very much, especially when we discuss internationally, that we should not be allowed to degrade countries, such as the Commissioner representing us, who have jumped digital technology and told us good because we have been able to climb a little above the bottom. And I say it with complete consciousness and the responsibilities that exist over time for the position we are in, but, as I said before to the Minister, we are looking forward. I present the document on the DESI index for the minutes. [[At this point the Member, Mrs Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Let's go to the second thing the Minister said. He talked about the inclusion of Mr. Daskalakis from 23-1-2015 on digital television broadcasting services in the areas of the North Aegean Region and in areas of the Eastern Macedonia - Thrace Region. In fact, on 23-1-2015. Are you blaming us, to understand why the state mechanism was running escalating on escalations? You tell me that we didn't incorporate the project, that we left it all to find the bulk of it, that's a normal review. I am tabling the accession decisions for the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Are you blaming us because we have taken care of the work to join us and tell us that we are not interested in inequality? Obviously, we are interested in inequality. Here, and the description of the project lies in what I tabled to the Minutes. Same thing we were trying to do. Now - I do not understand, Minister - you come and defend what? I have here the answer to this work on 8-5-2015 by your predecessor Minister, responsible for the secretariat, Mr. Spirtzi. On 8-5-2015. This is a withdrawal of a decision to include not only this project. Here's a painting, Minister. I guess you've seen him. Do you know how many works they've responded to? There were hundred and twenty works, including those two. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point the Member, Mrs Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] And what are you telling us? Are you telling us that you are pleased that these projects are now being financed by the EMCDDA reserve? The EMCDDA reserve also comes from state funding and, of course, from providers. But that money would go somewhere else. And what they responded, they responded because of your predecessor's ideology and agenda - you know that very well - who made a rabies attack on "DIGEA", which your parliamentary representative today repeats in rhetoric, and that ended up in the D.A.'s drawer. And you came and said, "Oh, now what am I doing to cover the rest of Greece? What do I do?" And you have produced a project which, as Mr Kumucasos said, before it has a much larger budget, a smaller coverage and the Community money that we have guaranteed, which you have been misled to us, have been electorally lost. That's the reality. We do not, however, tell you not to do the work. In the end, in order to reach agreement, we are not discussing whether there should be inequalities in digital policy. Don't tell us that. That's ridiculous. We are talking about how, not about what, not about what, not about the target. The aim, of course, is to have the maximum possible population coverage at the minimum cost. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I would like your tolerance for two minutes. We are talking, first of all, about whether this will be done with an idea, which is against the private initiative of PPPs and entrepreneurship, which helps in this direction and what is the level of competence in implementing this. That is why I asked about the Karanika committee. Also, know that when you talk about heresy, and when you talk about our history, you do well to refer to the past. I did not say 'at all'. But there's evidence from our period. Documentation. What exactly? I've done it for the record. I've done it before. Please take the tables, Mr Minister, which have the description of the 'Superfast Broadband' and 'Rural Extension' projects and which have the deadlines, which is not disputed. These are now. In 2019 they'll throw money into the market. Take also the projects of the NRP, as we received them in 2012 and see what we delivered in 2015. Balance is plus. I challenge you and have asked you on several occasions and with a specific parliamentary question: put yourself in the Minutes, what are the new projects that you have all done, what is their budget and when they will be done. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And please do not plunder with references to extreme examples such as this for the hospital system, etc. You raised an important issue - not to use a foreign term - of the interoperability of information systems in the public sector. It's a top issue. Can you rather than offend it in populist terms, about what was going on in the hospital, and say these things that were dignified and popular, tell us what you're going to do about interoperability? You can tell us what you are going to do with this. How do you plan to move on? I close, Minister, by saying that, both for the revision of the national plan and for what you are planning, we will continue to have a positive attitude, but ultimately help us, because we are not talking. Res, no verba, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u108	Mr. George Stylos has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u109	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, I have spoken in my protology that our problems are beyond us and that developments will overcome us - if they have not already done so - and do not depend on us. The real challenge for innovation is to be applied and exploitable commercially. Our universities are constantly producing excellent scientific publications, which receive great recognition. Nevertheless, they are unable to commercially exploit the research activity and the research results of their members, which could allow them to have revenues that will gradually increase and contribute to their budget. The use of research is a very different process from research itself, while the members of our university and research community are prepared for teaching and research, but they do not have the necessary experience to use their research results. I don't want to be unfair with you. Obviously, the problem of digital illiteracy and innovation is great and it is not just about your Ministry. It concerns the Ministry of Education, the productive ministries, the Ministry of Development, the Ministry of Economy. A number of other bodies are involved. It is about economic policy, fiscal policy, about how our tax framework strengthens entrepreneurship. We, the New Democracy, as a party of power and a Qualified Opposition, have tabled our proposals and positions in the public debate. Our President, a few days ago, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, spoke at the BSE conference about our digital policy proposals. I'm sure you know them. Today's debate is to hear the political leadership of the country, how it is placed in the problem, what it has done, what action it intends to take and what the timetable is. Unfortunately, we didn't get any answers. I described the issues. I referred to digital illiteracy and innovation and you did not say a single word, Minister. I expect to hear something in your answer. Madam President, I would like another minute. In particular, I would like to ask: what actions have you taken as a government to strengthen new technologies in primary and secondary education, for the introduction, for example, of school planning? What are the joint initiatives? What steps do you intend to take to promote the extroversion of universities and TEIs and our connection to production and business? The landscape emerging from the proposals of the Minister of Education responsible for higher education leaves little room for optimism. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, please. What is the state's support for newly innovatory enterprises? You are well aware that they are being pressed, both from the lack of bank support and unbearable taxation. In fact, I will give you a typical example, of you who today have bided to the party that you are the best, the perfect ones, and that everything is perfect with you. In the work that has been done with the previous government, the ICT4 group, while two years have passed - and you are two years in the government - while the project has been closed, the contractors have not yet been paid. So you guys are the perfect ones, who's all getting great with you, why is that? What is your policy to encourage student practice in cutting-edge technology enterprises? What are the main motives for returning to established academic researchers to come to our country? What are the national incentives you provide for setting up our high-tech business site, such as low rates of taxation and so on? What are your initiatives, your cooperation with regions and local authorities? What actions have you taken or intend to take to develop local research poles, associated with universities, research centres, with the creation, for example, of technological parks and infrastructures? I see here your Parliamentary Representative, Mr Katsi, and I remember the Government's Minister for Research and Innovation, who came and dismantled the Regional Research Centre of Western Greece, where PATEPEI, a research centre of the Epirus Technical Education Institute, which was targeted at the agri-food sector and development, of particular importance to the primary sector and the region of Epirus, was included. There is also a number of other issues. I would like to remind you, Minister, that under the Government of Mr Kostas Karamanlis and with Minister Rusopoulos more than six hundred digital frequencies. Have you ever heard of the digital EEZ in our country or the neighbouring countries going on with this policy and we are waiting to tell us you're the best? In closing, I'd like to make a little report. Worldwide they are created in new ecosystem technologies, synergies of universities, businesses, research centres, autonomous professionals, who distribute information, the results of their research, and grow at a rate that we cannot imagine. Those of us from this building want freedom and flexibility. We can't get in their way. There's no need for an FEK to come by a high prestige professor. Freedom, flexibility, investment in infrastructure. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u110	Mr. Kefaliannis, would you like to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u111	I'll listen to the Minister, and I have the right to secondary.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u112	I mean, you want to close. Minister, how much time do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u113	Five, ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u114	You have ten minutes for your dentology and six minutes for your tritology. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u115	I think that someone who had the patience to attend today's debate has also reached political conclusions. I'm going to go through these specific issues. Before I begin, however, Mrs Asimakopoulou, I really think that your complaints must be made to the Commissioner, not to us, because all this philology about whether we have taken steps or not has started from his congratulations. I can't add anything. I think the world that listens to us has, indeed, made its conclusions. For the work of developing antenna systems, which you joined on 23 January, we insist. Here is a sample of your priorities, because you are moving a cost that the private company must bear to the public corps. Simple as that! This is where our great political and ideological difference lies. Go back to the county and see how many times the private company that has the antennas and the antennas of digital television has "suffered" the municipalities to bear the cost of developing antennas when protesting that their citizens are unable to watch TV. That's the reality. Aren't you going to think about it again? We'll welcome it, really. But, unfortunately, this work has had these priorities. You said that money on the market would fall in 2019. We will be here and you will be disproved, as you have disproved with the other, the great case of the Space Agency, which I think we will be able to discuss in the next bill. Because jokes and extreme criticisms have now been sidelined and we hope for a creative debate and attitude on your part. For these projects, I would now like to make some references. We proceeded with the completion of the metropolitan rings, the so-called MAN networks, because, in previous years since the implementation of this project, these networks were inactive and non-functional. We managed to make the sixty-eight metropolitan networks of the country active and dynamic, since the Ministry is now overseeing their maintenance increasingly and more and more public bodies want to join them, while applying for them. The 'Rural Broadband' project and, of course, the draft law that comes up - because I must admit that there are problems with regard to licensing - will be an amendment to this effect, which will facilitate the licensing of antennas for this project, so that we do not have problems with delays and integration and the structures of the whole of this project. We have proceeded with the completion of the project to develop a digital register for the country's network infrastructure. Its operator is the Directorate-General for Telecommunications and Post. The purpose of this project is to develop a digital, online, interactive application, through which it has been possible to record and monitor the situation of all available online infrastructure, as set out in Law 4053, which specifically provided for the establishment and operation of that register of online infrastructure. This register has been made available to the municipalities in the country and I think that very specific steps are being taken to implement the directive on the reduction of the cost of development of the Ultra-Special Speed Networks. We will expand our work and our ambition is together with the Ministry of Infrastructure to have an integrated system for recording all of the country's web infrastructure, which I think will help very much. With regard to the 5G, the fifth generation of mobile telephone connections, it is a technology that, you know, will bring about storming changes across the range of human activities and I think we should be very quickly prepared. We are within the timetables and within 2017 the roadmap will be completed, precisely so that Greece can respond to the targeting of the digital agenda. Of course, for the initial start of services, the 700 MHz band, the so-called 'Digital Part 2', has been set at a pan-European level. Our country is taking all those steps that will enable the use of this band to provide broadband electronic services. This means that a significant part of the spectrum, enshrined for digital television, needs to be changed and intended for broadband electronic services. I would remind you that this is an issue which we had the opportunity to discuss, and when the debate and the strong confrontation about licensing and the limitation of spectrum took place. It is a part of the spectrum, that is to say, which must be attributed to mobile telephony and, of course, this also restricts the potential for use by television. To achieve this, of course, since autumn 2016, the country has been actively involved in the International Negotiations Group for the Southeast European Region, the so-called SEDDIF, with countries such as Austria, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Hungary, Montenegro, Serbia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Slovenia, Turkey. But we also participate in the Transandriatic Group on Adriatic and Ionian, with Italy, Albania, San Marino, Montenegro and Croatia. In addition, bilateral and multilateral contacts shall be made for the same purpose as all the countries participating in the respective fora. The purpose of these negotiations is to eliminate the interference caused by the border countries. I want to assure you that the country will increase its fortune and vital space. Once these negotiations have been concluded, we will be able to update the frequency map and have clean solutions with regard to licensing, both television and radio, but also very functional relations with neighbouring countries. As I told you before, the National Action Plan, the 5th generation mobile telephony technology roadmap, will be completed by the end of the year and will be in the schedules. I made references to Greece's process with very strong preparation and a worthy team in the negotiations. As far as the antenna systems are concerned, this is a very bad story. Unfortunately in Greece and these antenna systems have often been licensed retrospectively, as was the case with the antennas of "DIGEA". In other words, they went to private individuals, lifted up the antennas, and then the state retrospectively came to deliver legal status. Here I think we should jointly agree on the way in which we are going to go to the next generation antennas. I think we have a chance, precisely, that the transition to the next technology will be combined with one regulation. It will be good to have a clear landscape as a whole at all these levels. I think it has now become clear from our debate that a National Digital Strategy has been established at the moment. I would really like, instead of being heard by critical generalists of the press, that we have no strategy, that something specific should be heard, for example, that in the National Digital Strategy in this verse you should not have written this like this, but that you should write it otherwise. This - I think - would have been very functional both for our debate and for the overall consultation that should exist at Parliament's level. The existence of this text - which has been approved by the relevant EU departments. and proceed with this in cooperation with our partners - it gives rise to specific priorities and projects, and it is what brings results and makes our partners recognise the progress that has been made. Finally, the week before us will take place the launch of the HELLAS SAT 3 satellite. This is a very important step towards defending the country's rights in space and the upgrading of satellite policy through the simultaneous establishment of the Hellenic Space Agency, the Greek Space Agency. I think that our initiatives are proof that in the area of digital and satellite policy we do have a solid strategy, which we are serving in a system and which results. We are sure - and the results will be announced very soon - that the country's position in relation to its telecommunications potential will also be improved. I also hope for other opportunities for parliamentary scrutiny so that, in fact, we can talk about fundamentally, help people understand where we agree and where we disagree and help to make the most of these technologies prioritise the use of society in such a way that it does not repeat the mistakes of the past. The mistakes of the past, ladies and gentlemen, of the New Democracy Members, concern the enormous disparities that have arisen in the policies being implemented. The scope of new technologies can become the area where these inequalities will alleviate them. I invite you to contribute to this effort.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative Mr Kefaloyannis has the floor. Would you like to be second, Mr. Kefaliannis?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u117	For a few, Madam President. I won't need more than two-three minutes. Minister, I'll start with a deal with you. Surely those who have been attending us today and those who have been following this debate in detail have come to their conclusions on the positions of the parties, the Government and the Opposition. I will start with the last thing you mentioned, with regard to digital policy. Of course, we are here to make concrete proposals and comments. However, I have a feeling that the text and the strategy you are talking about at the moment is general. There is no specific targeting, no specific timelines. If the government could present something more specific, we, in fact, will be happy to contribute to this strategy. I told you earlier in my prototype that we believe that digital revolution, in fact, can be a tool through which the country can escape the economic crisis and, of course, there can be a diffusion in all areas of politics. For example, I also said in my prology that it is not possible when all the forecasts for the future are that 90% of posts will require digital skills, at the moment our university system will only refer to about 4% in terms of these positions. In fact, the graduates of the future will be digitally illiterate when these needs exist and I think no one disagrees with that. I shall conclude with one point to which you have referred, but also with the position of Mr Loverdos, who is a little avoiding this debate, and in particular the PSE opinion. We as a Qualified Opposition - why you did not refer to your dentistry - since there is this opinion, we formally tell you that we want to know. If it is a matter of confidentiality, I think there is no disagreement that we can keep this confidentiality in place at all times, but we tell you in every official way that we would like to know about this opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u118	Madam President, I would just like to speak for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u119	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u120	Mr. Kefaliannis, the National Digital Strategy is a digital strategy text and therefore, of course, it is a text of general direction. So, in the text of general guidelines, what I stressed in my position - and I repeat - is that we have not heard any specific criticism. I think, indeed, that the debate, after all, was extremely useful for both parties and for the citizens who were patient to listen to us. In the area of digital skills, one of the first actions our Ministry has done, was to sign a memorandum of cooperation with the Open University, which has both flexibility and the ability to organise digital skills development courses for the population. This is, of course, a complex issue and will not be exhausted in this action. It is also about the education of public officials and everyone. As for the National Broadcasting Council, of course you will receive the correspondence immediately. At the moment I am making it clear that the House is responsible for legislating and not legislating by the independent authorities. The independent authorities apply the existing legislation, and of course they do not have the power - because I see some people flirting with this possibility - to decide on constitutionality or otherwise. The discussion procedure in the Council of State has been completed and I hope - and I hope - that there are no pretexts in other struggling sins. I sincerely believe it and hope that our dialogue, which will evolve in the next few days, will make us all wiser, us and our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the report is closed. 28/20/19-5-2017 topical and urgent question. I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the room "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty-one students and students and a trainer from the 3rd Municipal Kissamos Chania. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Thursday 27 April 2017 have been distributed and the House is asking whether they have been ratified.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u122	The minutes of Thursday 27 April 2017 were therefore validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-23-S1-commons.u123	With the agreement of the House at 13.30 p.m. the sitting of the next Monday, 26 June 2017, at 17.00 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work, Parliament's scrutiny: a) the topical and urgent debate and b) the debate on Nov 17.00. Question No 23/8-5-2017, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
