ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House the current questions of Friday 19 May 2017. Oh, I'm sorry. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 831/15-2017 topical question by MP Greven of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Christos Beyala to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the transition to the digital signal for large parts of the province. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question raised by Mr Mavroudi Voridis with regard to the grant of an allowance to a firefighter for five years. 3. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARK Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on "in the air hundreds of works by municipalities and regions throughout the country due to the ambiguity of Law 4412/16". 4. The Question No 833-15-2017 by F' Vice-President of Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Rural Development and Food concerning the extension of the submission of statements to farmers who have been damaged by the frost in the Municipality of Agia Prefecture of Larissa. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question by MP Florina of New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Antoniadis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the overall and not partial relocation of the Florina Prefecture of Achlada. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under number 830-12-2017, a topical question by MP Larissa of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister of Health, on the subject of "dimensions takes the anti-embolist movement in Greece". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No. 2710/19-1-2017 of the Greek Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Georgios Arvanitidis to the Minister of Health about the announcements to resolve the property status of the General Hospital of Thessaloniki "St. Paul". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question of the privatisation of regional airports, by number 3934-6-3-2017, by MEP I, Mr. Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Finance. 3. The 3614/21-2-2017 question of the Independent MEP from Athens Mr. Theocharis Theocharis to the Minister of Health about the high rates of inappropriate medical Cesarean modalities. "B" A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 839/16-2017 topical question of the Radical Left Coalition, Maria Triantafyllou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, concerning the upgrading and utilization of the archaeological cultural product of the Prefecture of Itolokarnania. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 835-15-2017 by MP Arta of New Democracy, George Stylios, to the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the EUR 138 million loan from the European Investment Bank (EIB) for the construction and renovation of buildings and facilities in PI. 3. Under No 840/16-5-2017, a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The regulation of the hundreds of twenty-dollars for all dues to the municipalities must be applied." 4. The Question No 841/16-5-2017 by MP Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Migration Policy concerning the operation of the Centre for Refugees in Lavrio. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 836/15-2017 topical question of the Parliamentary Serres of New Democracy Mr. Fotinis Arabatzis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on problems of non-smoking fruit trees in areas of northern Greece. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 846/16-5-2017 by the Independent MEP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject of an 'an amended scandal for bankers'. The topical questions which will be answered by the same Minister or State Secretary will be discussed after each other. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Retirement provisions of the State and amending the provisions of the Law of the Ministry of Finance. In accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation, this revenue is to be considered as assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation. At yesterday's sitting, the four cycles were completed by the list of speakers given by the parties in proportion to their parliamentary power. There are hundreds of seven speakers left in the electronic system. I therefore propose that, if you accept it, the time should be reduced to six minutes, instead of seven, so that more can be spoken. I would also like to inform you that according to the decision of the Conference of Presidents on 16 May 2017, the list of speakers should be completed by 18.00 p.m. The Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups will then be given the floor and the vote will be followed so that the sitting can be concluded, if possible, by 12 noon. Does the House agree with the proposals?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore agreed. As far as speakers are concerned, Mr Lazarides has been left since the last cycle. Mr. Tassos of the Communist Party of Greece prevented and spoke yesterday. The list therefore starts with Mr Kyriazidis, Mr Vlao and Mrs Kanelli. Mr. Lazaridis, do I have your consent to make a little change in the order?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u3	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u4	Good. So the first speaker is Mr Vlachos, then Mr Kyriazidis and then Mrs Kanelli. Here you go, Mr Vlavo, you have the floor. Please keep the time if possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank my colleagues for their small amendments to facilitate my own programme. Ladies and gentlemen, after really many months' delay, and in the midst of a government communication storm all this time for red lines, for negotiation, there has been a reassurance among the citizens, but perhaps to some extent for all of us, that the government is really negotiating what it means and will actually keep them. We heard statements by the Prime Minister, the Vice-President of the Government, of the top ministers, such as Mr Tsakalotou, and not just, who spoke of these famous red lines, about what they will not vote on, creating a picture, if you like, fictitiously, because what has been said all this time has been overturned. There's nothing wrong with what we knew. No one expected a package of heights that this agreement is, that is, the fourth memorandum. Of course, the government's statements today: 'We would not like this package and it is out of our minds' cannot relieve them of their own responsibilities. In the short time I've got, I'm not going into numbers. I think our rapporteur, Mr Stakoras, put the financial figures very thoroughly yesterday. I just want a few remarks and some conclusions to be drawn from this negotiation. Before this agreement came to the committees, SYRIZA, mainly from the two government parties, felt the need first to inform its parties - a political secretariat, a central committee, a parliamentary group - and then to inform parties, citizens and society. We've come to the House. We have now come to Parliament and called for forty-seven I think institutions and it was the first time that none of the dozens of bodies were called - there were too many - did not find a good word about this agreement. No one at all shared the government's optimism. Everyone had something to notice, but everyone expressed their concern about the future of the industry they represented. What does that mean? It means that no one expects anything positive from this agreement. Everyone's worried. And I said earlier that it cannot be overcome by stating from the side of the government's colleagues that 'we, too, are concerned and we would not want it'. Because here, ladies and gentlemen of the government majority, you must choose or this agreement is a product, a result of your own negotiation and you adopt it - this fourth memorandum - and it is a good one and you vote on it, because you really expect some positive results, or it was a necessary evil. It can't be both. Is the deal yours, or have they imposed it on you? One of them has to be. All this time, we did record a celebrity tone that you're winning. So that means - so I am interpreting it - that the agreement is yours and that you value it as a positive solution to the country's progress. That is why you ask the parties to vote for it. So you're asking us to reward your own effort. You are asking society and the parties to say 'bravo' to you. But the society we heard yesterday did not only say 'bravo' to you, but I would say that it has left this Chamber very much. And how can it not go away, ladies and gentlemen, when this famous bill, the fourth memorandum, which has been heard, is being abolished, reduced, cut down, abolished, lost, charged, cut? Those were the distinctive verbs for this deal. I am sorry, therefore, that we cannot participate in this formal atmosphere for the agreement. The criticism from the standpoint of counter-population is heard about countermeasures and debts. So you admit that with it you're going to even a bad deal. Because when you forget the deal and go to the countermeasures, you say 'yes', you admit it's a bad deal, but you're trying to improve the image with the countermeasures. What countermeasures, ladies and gentlemen? After three years? After three years another government will be, another policy will be pursued, other priorities will be made public and that is your wish today. I have also heard today of statements by the Prime Minister, which tells us it is time to wear a tie.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u6	Finish with this, Mr. Vlavo.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u7	I shall conclude, Mr President. Honestly, it's too big a cost. To finally wear the Prime Minister's tie, the Greek people must wear a nipple with these measures. It's a heavy price. It could be much simpler and different. I would like to end with this, Mr President, and say that, in fact, gentlemen, there is talk of debt. We will, in the effort to resolve the debt problem, stand in solidarity. Because, alas, after so much has happened, after all that you are voting on, we cannot settle the debt. The Civic Opposition will support this effort by the government, because it has really started with a statement since 2012, we have kept it alive so far and I think now is the time for us all to claim a better solution together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u8	Mr Dimitrios Kyriazides, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u9	But the speakers, Mr President, have spent six minutes at the expense of colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u10	This isn't the first time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u11	Colleague, it was ten minutes ago. Did you mind today?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u12	Mr Kyriazides, it is not a question of harming Mr Barkas, but if all of us want to speak more. The fact that Mr. Barkas protested, this matter leaves me indifferent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u13	Mr President, this had to happen yesterday and not today.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u14	The House unanimously agreed. You have the floor, Mr. Cryazides.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, there is a utopia on the left. Unfortunately, it is once again confirmed in our day in a tragic way for society. Honestly, I myself have been in a difficult position too many times in the previous parliamentary term, voting for such measures. There is also my colleague and co-rapporteur here, who is the rapporteur, who has not talked to me for two years because I was a memorandum. It's his right, of course. For someplace else you've moved and elsewhere you're going. Indeed, we have often been in conflict with each other and with each other internally.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u16	Calm down. Mr. Kelles, Mr. Cryazides doesn't want an attorney! Keep going, Mr. Cryazides.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u17	I understand that when you were at 3% you were not aware of what is happening in the country. But when you became Dedicated Opposition, I felt or convinced that in any case you were taught to some extent, but the first year of governance was tragic for the country. So, you led us in August 2015 to plead for the country to remain in this European Union, in the common course that we need. This has happened in all the countries that have been in a similar position, such as Portugal, Spain, our Cyprus, and of course there was a consistency and then. You have played us: you have proceeded to an early elections, you have won and hoped that you have then come to mind and that in any case the country needs a consensus, a common course, so that we can get to war for the first time, while in such cases the country has always been united, so that we can overcome these risks, which you too have often confessed. On the contrary, you have proceeded on your own, delayed to a certain extent again dangerous for the country and led it to measures that should not be taken. And you come today to give up on what we did. We in every bill voted for anything positive. For your part, during the period I said before, you did not vote for a single article. That is our difference at both political and parliamentary level. On the contrary, what are you bringing us now? You were committed to respecting the Constitution to every degree. Every letter of the Constitution, the Prime Minister stressed, will be kept. And now you're violating every letter of the Constitution. With a law and an article you would abolish the memorials, you would proceed to unilateral deletion of the debt and prolongation. And now you are celebrating and willing, of course, to apply what is after you. For ninety-eight years, you have committed the country, you have promised it, in order to remain in power. That's your only purpose and nothing else. You bring tough measures and the worst of all is that the two years, which New Democracy, as a government, brought the country into balance, to balance, to credibility, have gone lost. And it's your responsibility. Two years of governance of the country by SYRIZA - ANEL, two memorials, one harder than the other, with unbearable new measures: pension cuts, cuts in special wages, cuts in heating allowances, cuts in children's allowance, cuts in poverty, cuts in resources from OTAs, abolition, reductions in taxes on medical services, abolition of social allowances, reduction of tax-free allowances, increased insurance contributions and, of course, the worst of all of them, free redundancies. This is your work. And, of course, for the single network of pensioners, it has been mentioned recently: 16 reductions in your own two-year rule. Sixteen reductions! Also, you had the parallel fairy tale - sorry - parallel program in the previous two years and now you have another parallel tale, the countermeasures. The countermeasures are known - if you want - when and who will implement them. New Democracy will implement it. And that is why, of course, you are also being promised the next government under these circumstances. Forty-seven bodies have been mentioned here, and especially representatives of farmers from now on: Create the chips again. You are creating exactly the situation that you supposedly fought or fight ideologically. What do you create? Create cologne, create piles, create coupons in order. As a Draminian in my neighboring country, I lived and watched these every day. This is exactly what - if you like - is preparing for the Greek society. With regard to a specific issue, the special payrolls, the Prime Minister and your co-pilot, Mr Kammenos, were also committed on several occasions. And Mr Kammenos said that if the decision of the Council of State does not apply, he will resign. The same happened last year in May when it brought an amendment to the equivalent. He said that these would come by the end of September and there would be institutionalisation. September came by, and we didn't see any resignation again. Yesterday, Mr. Toskas and Mr. Vitsas pledged that they would bring changes, improvements in terms of special wages. So far we haven't seen them. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] What is being created again is a dimension between the Armed Forces, the Security Bodies, and between the workers in the Security Body. Cuts up to 400 euros! If that's possible! You do not respect either the decisions of the Council of State or the decisions to which you have committed yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u18	Finish it, Mr. Cryazides.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u19	The New Democracy has also committed itself to implementing the decision of the Council of State, in the sense - if you like - the obligation of the country, the state to give, in fact, the Armed Forces and the Security Bodies what they are suited to, as well as another special new wage under the real circumstances experienced by the officials of the Armed Forces and the Security Corps. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, I would like the floor on personal grounds because a lie has been said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u21	Mr. Karayannides, there is no staff! The Bureau considers that there is no staff!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, we cannot all go up and talk about the rapporteur!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u23	He didn't swear on you, he said you weren't talking to him. Don't start now!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u24	But he's lying, Mr. President! If he was telling the truth, I wouldn't take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u25	He meant you didn't talk to him politically, not human. There's no...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u26	But, politically, I was talking to him. Seven times we've been in coordination. For Christ's sake! He's got a candy and he's calling it now! Obviously, I'm not going out for coffee with him!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u27	All right, now, that's not sublime! Calm down!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u28	Talk to him better!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Kelles, don't let me comment again! We will either keep the procedure in order for colleagues to speak, or we will start personal now!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u30	If my fellow Members are not to speak, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u31	Mrs. Kanelli, you will speak after Mr. Lazaridis, who enters the place of Mr. Vlachos. Here, Mr Lazarides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the measures and countermeasures agreed with the lenders will be the first step towards getting out of the crisis, in other words, a comprehensive solution to the exit from the comitology that has been set us by the previous PASOK and PASOK governments - a new democracy, which is the objective of this government. We consider it necessary to regulate the debt so that we can discuss growth and productive reconstruction. We are seeking to formulate medium-term debt measures, because if we want to talk about productive reconstruction, investment and autonomous economic policy, the debt issue must be resolved. With this agreement, we have therefore unblocked the negotiation, which includes positive measures - apart from measures with a negative sign - in order to then move on to debt regulation, an overall solution to the exit from the crisis. No one can be happy. The truth is, however, that the agreement opens the way for the economy to stand on its feet, with debt regulation and the country's subjection to quantitative relaxation. Debt regulation means that our country will be spending smaller sums on repayment of debt than it spends today, so it will be able to alleviate and support society so badly affected by its own programme. The country's subjection to quantitative relaxation opens the way for the European Central Bank to buy government bonds from central banks so that our banks subsequently acquire liquidity and finance businesses and households. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to reach this point, to find a comprehensive solution to the problem, the government negotiated hard, while at the same time trying to counter the demands and cries of the Officerial Response, which required us to take so many other measures to close the evaluation and spoke about the government's ideologies and obsessions in the negotiations that caused delays. Now that we have closed the assessment and we are a step ahead of the substantial debt regulation measures, these same cries are continuing and talking about a disastrous agreement. They are the same who, without any legitimacy, dragged us into the memoranda and the committee. They are the ones who are now sitting on the chairs of the counterpopulation, where the Greek people have placed them, where they will be allowed to sit for a long time, until they realize that these are the country's destroyers. Ladies and gentlemen, the agreement is a zero financial impact agreement. And that is not a figure of speech, as with the achievement of the surplus targets, which are 3.5%, positive and negative measures are applied at the same time. If, after all, we did not have stable economic indicators and a large surplus, it would not back off the IMF, it would not accept 1% of negative measures and 1% of positive measures. The countermeasures, which will be implemented in 2019 and 2020, if the objectives of the surplus are met - in our view, we will - include a rent subsidy, a reduction in participation in pharmaceutical expenditure, an increase in the beneficiaries of free access to nurseries, an extension of the school meal program, an increase and an extension of the family allowance, a programme to create new jobs. Positive measures will apply, for example, to the rental allowance for six hundred thousand families, the child allowance for the first and second children for over three hundred thousand families, a VAT reduction from 24% to 13% on agricultural supplies and on live animals, while collective agreements will be reintroduced in 2018. And I ask: which countermeasure do you disagree with? Say it clearly. You have been asking for elections for a year and a half, indifferent to the problems of the country and to the needs of the economy, failing to propose solutions and strategies for exiting the crisis. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, shortly. The Greek debt, gentlemen, is unsustainable. It needs political will and means to be reduced. But it also needs relief. And they all recognize that now. The adoption of the provisions under discussion is a prerequisite, but the imperative of their ratification must be and must be strengthened mainly by the need to settle the debt. The choice is yours: You will either support this effort or you will continue to keep track of developments. Before I close, I would like to refer here to the question of investment in the Greek area, where several colleagues were placed mainly of the Antipolitics, who referred to the choice of the master to name a part of the area as a forest area. That is what we were calling and which I pointed out from this step and from this point of view, namely the legislative framework, which exists with regard to forests and forests. And it is a legislative framework that has been imposed by your own governments, PASOK and New Democracy. In this legislative framework, the master of the Greek and described this area as a forest and blocked the investment. So don't grumble and shoot the government. This legislative framework is yours. I have pointed it out every tone and said to sit here so that we can find a modern legislative framework, as all the countries of the world have, so that we do not have such phenomena. Until now, citizens have been afflicted. And you see now that an investment is afflicted by the Greek State.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u33	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u34	I shall close with a word about the amendment I tabled, Mr President, in less than ten seconds. I tabled an amendment, number 1029/161.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u35	Mr. Lazarides, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u36	Mr President, I will end in less than ten seconds. I'd be done. The proposed provision regulates the injustice and the exorbitant debt which has been wrongly incurred by the companies involved in the previous development laws and which have been affected by conditions of force majeure - extreme weather, natural phenomena - without any responsibility at all and have had to suspend the implementation of their investment projects, for which companies have been charged with procurement by banks for letters of guarantee at the time that there was no institutional framework, in order to enable companies...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u37	I have to stop you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u38	I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u39	But finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u40	...to return these bail letters and stop banks charging them with extra commissions. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u41	Thank you very much. For information to colleagues, the Bureau yesterday was informed by the Government that it would not accept any parliamentary amendment. Therefore, do not waste time with parliamentary amendments. Mrs. Canelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to speak in any capacity - and you will not say 'on staff', Mr Counsellor - on cod. I'll talk groceries. And I'll speak bakery, because if I sit in my place, it rains. There's a lot about the rain. I'll hold one. I have heard it from here, from colleagues who say that they will vote for the measures with two hands, from colleagues who say that 'yes, we are populists, because we are next to the people and we are listening to them'. I will tell you this: If you want to listen to the people, it says 'in the damn place May month it rains and there are never serious things and marriages'. You chose a month like this to get married forever to the memorials, the previous and the following. You would get a divorce theoretical and communication divorce with previous memorials and go to the next wedding with the next Memorandum. Secondly, you came as hope and fell as a pit. Keep the conspiracy. Right now, the locusts have fallen to St. Stratis and it's symbolic. I'm not going to go to any deeper meanings of this thing. Starfleet's been real locusts right now. It's the periphery up. He hasn't left anything up. At Statis, recreational place for some, once, for the left. If we go to the essence of things, you say you're leaving comitology. Let's get them one by one of the grocery stores. What commission are you leaving from? You give authority to the Minister of Finance to apply the policy of Commissioners. And it will be applied until at least 75% of the debt is repaid, i.e. a fifty, sixty more years, to be serious, because it will not be repaid by 2021. Unless you tell me you will implement SYRIZA's independent policy. The Minister of Finance, things that aren't practical. What commission are you talking about? You'll be on the market. How are you going to get out on the market? You cannot accuse us of talking like this, simply, when your Prime Minister comes here yesterday in the House, he goes to the journalists, who are "fucking, snuffy journalists, bad guys who call SYRIZA" and tells them "too good to be true" about the loan. "To good to be true"! That's a translation. Too good for it to be real. Let me tell you, as a journalist, what's going on? ‘Too True to be good’. It's too real to be good. And that's a very big truth. Are you going out on the markets? And where are you going to get on the market, what are you going to do? They'll tell you which markets you're going to get, who's going to get out, who's gonna win and go further. Will you bring countermeasures for Sunday? Have you made it left because the stores will open at 10:00? Who do you make it easier for? Christians to go to church before 10:00? Isn't that why the bells aren't up? On Sunday at the table who's sitting? Nobody. So it won't seem like the table's empty. Tell me, which family is going to sit on the table on Sunday? Who's gonna sit down? He'll sit down the little ones who've shut down their shops and have nothing to eat. That's a nice way! Nice deception! Blinds to have the macaroni trees that Alekah was saying yesterday. There won't be a Sunday table. One day she was staying theoretically and practically. What grief? What thirty-five hours and thirty-five hours? There are no such things in this policy. Who, then, pays this variation of memorials? You also have a mania with the number '4'. Is it possible to tell me tomorrow morning that we use slogan or say, or do we do, or do, that, when the Minister comes up here and says that the skillful memos also want skilled negotiators? And you expect no one to think that the debate is taking place backwards? And one must keep his dignity when he hears these things, especially from people who believe that licenses are four and become fourteen? You said that the memorials were two and you were eloquently four. So we can go to the twelve Memorandums tomorrow - to be serious - which you will say measures, you will call them countermeasures, you will call them a thousand two? Tell me, when you cut the allowance from the unprotected children, what will the countermeasure be? Which protector of unprotected children will be humiliated by the bureaucracy of proof of the unprotected person to go and give him a new allowance you would invent? Tell me, what will the countermeasure be to the unprotected children who are cutting the allowance bell? If I stay only in what I wanted to stay on the special payroll, there are frauds hiding under hope, but which are a loophole, which is very clear. For example, the way in which you privilegedly treat senior officers and staff, is why they have to make your political reality, apply it asphyxiately, put captives and the underprivileged and all in your geostrategic needs and NATO. Was NATO a countermeasure to what is happening today in the Aegean, where a match is enough to talk about the geostrategic exploitation of the wage bill? You are preparing the ground for future cuts, because for the first time a provision is introduced to special payrolls so that new relevant ministerial decisions are constantly in place. You're turning into a potential option for officers to ask for more tomorrow morning. The personal difference is used to eliminate it in advance, in any form of racing, within special wages, the claim of improved wages and wages. The benefit of the "special conditions" is converted into a tool to remove the fixed working hours. And if you start with the special payroll, you'll take it to the non-special payroll. You have used all this philosophy and politics to make fun of, because in fact the tie, which was a symbol, does not allow or oblige anyone to read it as you want. You got into the big urban capital living rooms and there without a tie, you'll eat a door. The variant is straw and hippie. Therefore, the cost of this change in clothing, ideological, will be paid by the Greek people unreasonably. Keep a phrase that our rapporteur has told you: the people are afraid, because there is no historical subject here. Members' mouths were heard 'Socials'. We've become many societies, we've been cut into "pixel" and you think you're going to make the people look bad. It can't be zafti and you can't take measures for him because you're not a profruit bed of history.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u43	Thank you. The five next Members - I read them, although I think everyone is in Ethiopia - are Mr Athanasios, Mr Kelles, Mrs Vultesis, Mr Fokas and Mr Balomeakis. Here, Mr. Athanasios, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall not refer to the provisions of the bill itself or its philosophy, because I believe that it has been sufficiently developed by my colleagues in the New Democracy and I would not like to repeat them. However, I would like to take a different approach to highlighting our diversity in dealing with the fundamental, vital problems facing the country and demonstrating, at the same time, populism and the hypocrisy of the government, as well as your unmet cynicism. I will read you something, which I would ask you to pay attention to: "A crime is now being committed against the people and our country, a social, economic and national crime. The government has agreed with the lenders to completely dismantle labour relations, release redundancies and hand over tied hands millions of workers into a modern slavery, give the graceful shot at the already injured banking system and turn social security into charity, destroy domestic production and preach to prosecute traditional professions. They dare to bring to Parliament exceptionally a bill - a broom that institutionalises a new round of barbarism and is the preamble to a new memorandum. Government, lenders and local and foreign complication have agreed to unravel what remains, the necrometers of Greece to become its bosses. And this alone is a premeditated crime that in legal terminology is called “collective infidelity against the public”. We, based on the will and active intervention of society, will dismantle one of the provisions of the austerity of divestment and social dismantling. Don't believe them. They have exceeded every limit to lying and deception." Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANELs, do you remember these words? Is it too timely today? Who said it? But today's Prime Minister! When? He said it on March 28, 2014, when you published the so-called 'black book', which I will present to you. I call it the Neo-Gebelized England or, if you like, the Che Pottery. Do you know who Cheotas was? Ce Pota was Mao's famous propaganda minister, who had the ability to distort all truths. He also had a school. So who was he talking about? He said about our government at the time, the Samara - Venizelos government, the government that saved the country from the disaster that kept our country in the Eurozone, put it on the markets in 2014 and restored its prestige and credibility abroad. Your government not only tore up the memorials, but instead protected them with a two - faceted eye. Ladies and gentlemen, criticism is not always easy, because it does not have a sister. Comparison is not a sister of criticism. She's her cousin. Comparison is simple and inevitable, however, as long as you are not blind. Personally, I want to believe that most of you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, are neither one-eyed nor cowardly, so that you can see reality. I would remind you of the provision of Rule 60 of the Constitution, according to which Members have unlimited voting and opinion when voting in Parliament. However, let us now see a few individual issues that are directly related to the bill. Many Members and Ministers have told you that your government defends and strengthens, with the measures it takes, the social state. Yesterday, in fact, we heard Mrs Fotou repeat it here and yesterday. But let's see, is that the way things are? In all the democratic legal classes of the European Union, an element of the social state is the guarantee of ownership, which is the institutional foundation of the economic system of the civil state. This guarantee has been extended for decades, including the economic content of working and social rights of workers, such as the rights to wages, pensions, allowances and any other form of remuneration of workers or social security beneficiaries. Of course, the right to property is subject to restrictions by law or on the basis of a law to serve the general interest. Other restrictions, however, such as the expropriation provided for in the Constitution and other deprivation of ownership as a component of the social state, which means a reduction or removal of ownership. You are therefore judging if you are serving the welfare state with the measures you take with the bill at the expense of workers, employees and generally insured persons. Mr. Drasakis, but also Mr. Vitsakis, ladies and gentlemen, said that, "We have the primary task of hitting the complex and corruption." Words are nice. Let's see. To look a little back into the legislation that we made as a government, New Democracy, and what you did. We with three legislatures abused all the offences of public officials and judges. And with the National Coordinator's Legislation against Corruption, we had as a result... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like to see your tolerance for a few minutes, just like everyone else. I think it's a different approach.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u45	Yeah, but we don't have time. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u46	You're right, Mr. President. With this legislation, then, this has resulted in the international table of corrupt countries in two years 2013-2014 improving our country, according to both UN and GRECO, by twenty-five full positions. And in 2015 we won fifteen posts, but not with measures taken by you, because they paid the 2014 measures that we had taken. I say this because in 2016, in the new measurement made by the International Transparency, we are degraded by fifteen positions, because, first, you have abolished the National Corruption Coordinator and second, because of the legislation you have taken around which all these provisions are covered, which you have taken. I am referring to the media law, and in the case of the amendment that was brought by your colleague for a large business. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a few words about how I'm likely to...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u47	Mr. Athanasios, I'm sorry. You've spoken seven minutes and nineteen seconds. ........................................ Not a little. Close to seven and a half.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u48	Wait a minute. Here's what I'm thinking about how our judges are going to deal with. And I say, 'I suspect'. The cuts, of course, can be made in exceptional cases, for example, to reduce the public deficit. In these exceptional cases, however, the ability of the legislator to reduce insurance and other benefits is not unlimited. It is, firstly, defined by the principles of social solidarity - I am referring to Article 25(4) of the Constitution - and secondly, by the principles of equality, which stress the equal weight of budgetary adjustment. But at the very beginning of proportionality... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm done, Mr. President. ... according to which this measure must be appropriate and necessary. And I'm talking about the body of counties in the Courts of Cassation. And the ice Arrow...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u49	Please, Mr. Athanasios, close.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u50	You, ladies and gentlemen, have done nothing of this. Only one reference - and I conclude - to one provision in Article 63. The Minister of Justice isn't here...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Athanasios, please, close. Don't embarrass me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u53	Mr. Kelles has the floor. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I have not understood whether the applause is for Mr Athanasios or for the rise of Mr Kellas in Step. Lighten the atmosphere a little. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Here, Mr. Kelles, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, we have moments when the lies of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL becomes "tsunami" for the Greek society, with a government that has brought political deception into science. Ladies and gentlemen, as Mr Kammenos said, you have been elected to the public to sketch the memorials and you are voting 'in the fours'. Two memos in just two years. Then you brought the Greek people the programme of Thessaloniki with 12 billion benefits, and instead you made 14 billion cuts, obviously because you believe the tama is not breaking home. But it destroys an entire country. With the third memorandum you invented the famous Thessaloniki program, a program - delusion and that. We have now reached the fourth memorandum with 5 billion unjust and unnecessarily measures, which you are trying to cloak with the cloak of so-called countermeasures and at the same time you say that we are leaving the memoranda, while you are prolonging the committee for another three years. Who do you think you're kidding, really? And all that - you say - about the debt, Minister. This debt debate, colleagues, has started since 2012. You say you won't apply the measures if you don't get a debt adjustment. With you. On what page of the memorandum is this written? Can you tell me? Nowhere. Another lie. Lie to lie. Dear colleagues of SYRIZA and of the Independent Greeks, is there even one Greek, who believes all that is broadcast by the public broadcasting of the countermeasures and benefits from the measures in the fourth Memorandum? Even the workers themselves don't believe it. That's why they're strikein' on the other side. Is there even a Greek who believes that the result of the memorandum is financially neutral? You are a government of constant deception of society. You are voting for measures of 5 billion euros, unnecessarily if the country continued its course of recovery that had begun in 2014. The folkism on the one hand, and your irresponsible bruising for power on the other hand, have shaken the years of the Greeks. Can we see what situation you received the country in 2015 from the Government of New Democracy? Unreasonable limit at 9,500. You did it at 8,600, and now at 5,680. Clear things. Prepayment of tax. The New Democracy has reduced the tax advance from 70% to 55%. You 55% did it 100% and for farmers, from 27%, you went to 100%. The Government of New Democracy had reduced employers' and workers' insurance contributions. You've increased them vertically. The Government of New Democracy had reduced VAT on the focus, the rent tax, the property tax, the solidarity levy, the special oil levy. You raised it all and abolish the agricultural oil from above. Shall we go to the pensions? Remove the ESS. You have cut the supplementarys and now you come and make a 18% cut in the main pensions. In 2014, we were the first developing country in the European Union. Today, three years later, with 9 billion additional measures, mainly affecting small and medium-sized and pensioners, we are the only country in the European Union in recession. The Ministry of Finance admits today that in the last two and a half years almost 29 billion has been lost by the Greek economy and all this on the altar of proud negotiation. Shall we go to education for a while? Ten thousand recruits of permanent teachers are being eaten by the government. But you know very well that no intake can be made in the next two years. At the same time, the Prime Minister closes the eye to youth and he wears a abolition of the pan-Hellenic exams. At the same time, however, the Minister for Education says "I do not know how, although and when it will be implemented". At the same time we close Greek schools abroad, at a time when we so much need the Greek community. Should we go to the special salaries of the Armed Forces and the Security Bodies? From the protection of their incomes and zero wage reductions, we literally go to slaughter. Why do you not apply the decisions of the Council of State, returning the remaining 50% of those withdrew from their earnings? Who are we talking about? To people who literally - and we have live examples - risk their lives every day. As far as countermeasures are concerned, ladies and gentlemen, they do not exist. Don't be fooled. And there are no reasons why 5.5% of the primary surplus, namely 10 billion surplus, is impossible. I'm not saying that. You say it yourself. That is why we will not vote for any unnecessary measures or countermeasures. Because whoever votes for the countermeasures legalises measures that will cut two pensions each year by pensioners, sang one wage from the workers, legalise collective redundancies and give the free professionals and farmers the graceful shot. You are the first government in Greece to celebrate that you will increase the piles. If that's possible! You said you would end with the old and the complexion, winning tomorrow and daily prove that you are older than the old and more intertwined than the complexion. In your violence and efforts to remain in power and build a party state, legislate handy and unconstitutional. The Pappa Act is unconstitutional for television licenses. The Balta Act is unconstitutional for school directors. The Polakis Act is unconstitutional for hospital governors. The Skourleti Act is unconstitutional to extend the term of office of contractors. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Today, with the fourth Memorandum that is levelling and the last economic survivors in that country, you make it very clear that you are determined to do everything, as long as you stay in your chairs. Because the fourth memorandum is the epitome of political hypocrisy, social analgesia, unreliability, incompetence, political deception and irresponsibility of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. Of course, we do not expect ethics or expect and hope that Mr Tsakalotus will resign. Besides, what did he say? If he falls under 9,000 he will resign, not if he falls under 6,000, ladies and gentlemen. With a sense of responsibility and honesty, therefore, towards the country and the citizens, the New Democracy will not vote for this fourth memorandum. It's all yours! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u55	Mr Kelles, I cannot make a judgment on the contents, but on the consistency of time I make a very positive judgment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u56	You know we doctors are consistent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u57	Mrs Buddhism has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u58	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it has now been proved that your only taboo, because everything else has fallen, is Venezuela. Forty-three yesterday the dead - among them fifteen-year-old - in plundering. Yesterday, Mr. Pappas had the courage to tell Civic Opposition to wear the national shirt. He has not yet taken off his shirt with Madour's head when he went on his way to the exotic destinations with several controversial entrepreneurs. Everything else is what you said you would never do and do. You were unresolved at that time and now you are cutting allowances, pensions, reducing tax, bringing "out of the window" the collective redundancies and the lock out, transferring the last piece of public property from the last Ministry. It's here the foreign funds, the "kids" of destruction, you know it. Only women and children have not yet been transferred to the supreme district. Even after war defeat, no such regime has been imposed on Greece since the bankruptcy of 1893 or after the "black" of 1897. I mean, inside the absolute silence you welcomed Fuchelle a week ago. You don't talk, of course! Be quiet, don't wake Mr. Tsipras, who said we've all been Fuchtel clerks. And not to wake up to Mr. Kammenos, who said that he was persona non grata and that he was the commissioner of the occupation forces. I wanted to know - I'm waiting for Mr. Kammenos to tell me - what happened. Did he meet Mr. Fuchelle? Look at you: Last year you triumphed that you achieved 0.5% surplus for 2016, this year you triumph why you made 3.9%. And why have you borrowed since the beginning of the year 7 billion treasury bills, expensive lending, since you have so much money? And because Mr Tsakalotos keeps lying and then he has caused - he has also caused Mr Stavoura, our rapporteur, saying 'Get me the statement and bring me the statement' - I will give me all the statements of Mr Tsakalotou and all his lies about the history of the future. He used child poverty to say that the countermeasures should be voted on. He's crying about child poverty, Mr. Chakalotos. Why? Now are the children hungry, in two years' time, he'll feed them? Plus, he said fake evidence of child poverty. Look, Mr. Tsipras told us first that he would not vote for measures without a debt, then he said he was voting for measures to get the debt, now he says that if he did not get the debt, then he said he was going to wear a tie, because he was supposed to take something for the first time for the debt. You're doing it for the first time! Gravata can be worn for the first time, and Mr. Papapas also wore it in America, but you in the medium term admit that the debt case is beginning to go well after 2012. You write it yourself and I'll file it in the Minutes. Of course, this is not the first time that a government has been dealing with debt. Maybe this is the first time a government like yours has cut so many allowances. I wonder how you have not yet lifted the finger to blame us for the bad right, we have left so many allowances and we are exposing you to cut your allowances, even the heating allowance, which we have kept at decent levels. Look, Mr. Tsipras is able one day to say that he will stay the energy and water under public control and the other to sell them, because the announcement from TSEED for both and Mr. Kammenos is capable of telling Pristina that he has found the code, 6900 for the soldiers, but that will give them after the end of the memorials and then say it wasn't his fault that the porters and the police didn't find the money, and now you're saying any more, to make fun of them again. Mr. Tsipras, in December 2016 from Crete, said he was going to hit the tuuli, but now he's wearing a sariki. The tie's next, so first it's the flesh of Crete and then it's the tie. Mr. Tsipras, like Mr. Kammenos, has a dressing topic. That's what disguises are like. Mr Tsipras said in December: 'We will not do them a favor to retreat'. He said in December: ‘The end and horizon of this agreement is in mid-2018 at the latest’. I want to say something about the social state, because I see that there are both competent ladies here. Of course, it's also the financial staff, it's Mr. Juliarakis. The social state is a permanent obligation of the state. He can't go as a counter-gift. Article 20 of the Constitution specifically states that it is compulsory for the State to provide all social benefits for those who do not have them. You come in and you dismantle the entire social state and put it under the approval of lenders at the moment and say that if you achieve objectives, you will give the social state, which is obliged to do so much more if you do not achieve the objectives, you are obliged to do so. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Since I do not have time, Mr President, and because all this social state which was unnecessarily negotiable, Mr Kammenos said that the humanitarian crisis is not going to take place on the Costello bench, I give you about the Minutes - my colleagues mentioned - everything you said from the parallel programme, the Thessaloniki programme for the humanitarian crisis. All that would be unnecessarily negotiable and you would never do, now you put it under the cult and approval of the lenders. You are, and as Mr. Chakalotos said, your word is a contract. That is why I also give your statements on the prerogatives for the Minutes and on the history of the future. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr. Sweeps, for you have been precise in time. Until Mr. Fokas comes to Vima, let me tell you that he is next to Mr. Balomemakis, Mr. Giolas, Mr. Katsafandos, Mr. Michalis, Mr. Cremastinos and Mr. Bukoros. Mr. Fokas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, the time has come for the bill and the bill is exterminating. Once again we are called upon to legislate "with the gun on the front", to undertake commitments for austerity of lasting time and surpluses that will reach 5.6% in 2021, while Greek society is collapsed and our economy remains locked in the recession, misery and underdevelopment. You have been addressing the citizens and you have been asking for new blood, new painful, unbearable measures, from 2018 onwards. In total, there will be over EUR 5.6 billion cuts, from year to year, 2.5 billion from the reduction in main and ancillary pensions, 2 billion from the reduction in duty, the reduction in heating oil, a new increase in insurance contributions to free professionals and farmers, the abolition of the 1.5 % discount on the retention and thus a further reduction in the net wages of all employees and pensioners, the'major' to family allowances. In addition, there will be new reductions in the special salaries of the Armed Forces and the Security Bodies. I want to stand here for a minute and say that the reward and the 'thank you' for this titanic project, which the Security and Armed Forces have offered and offered, is the continuous reduction in their wages and pensions, which have exceeded 50% of all these years of crisis. So that is the 'thank you' to the Security Body and the Armed Forces. As if not all of this were enough, promote the abolition of the tax deduction for medical expenses, thus facilitating tax evasion. Let us move on to the well-advertised countermeasures, the amount of which is estimated at EUR 7.5 billion and for which has been a great deal of talk. They are measures that could have a positive impact on the Greek economy, such as the reduction of corporate tax from 29% to 26% in 2019, the reduction of tax on the lowest rate of natural persons from 22% to 20%. These are taxes, however, which are reduced after your own increases. Article 15 of the bill, however, clearly stipulates that beneficial measures are linked both to a surplus of more than 3.5% per year and to the unanimous opinion of all creditors and particularly the IMF. In other words, the countermeasures will be applied if and if we catch these great goals that we have agreed on. Honestly, I cannot comprehend where you draw this optimism from. Among us, ladies and gentlemen, a people who are driven into uncontrolled poverty, a people who have literally drained, do you really believe that they can cope with these extra-real surpluses? Don't you know that the real inability to pay the citizens will look very fast? As early as July, the first instalments from the tax come from the tax office. In a country where poverty rates are 11 units above the average of the European Union, in a country where revenue is based solely on overtaxation and the attitude of payments which the government has declared in a highly indebted economy with weak production structure and low competitiveness, we will say a great 'no'. The countermeasures depend on the country's financial performance, on conditions and objectives that will never be achieved and will therefore never be implemented. So, and 17.5 billion and 27.5 billion countermeasures to promise, that's what you can't give anyway, it's air that's furious. This is the black truth, ladies and gentlemen, and the Greek people are entitled to know it. In conclusion, I would like you to bear in mind that this morbid climate, the crisis, the austerity, the prolonged recession, the expansion of poverty, despair, are throwing plenty of water into the eurosceptic mill. Our society has now exceeded its limits, social cohesion is threatened and the desperate one, who feels that he has nothing to lose, seeks solutions to the extremes, populism, demagogy, racism and fascism. You now, and the previous ones from you, unfortunately, have caused winds. I hope and hope that we do not reap political and social storms. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, we are not giving solutions. And here I will say - as Lech Valesa rightly pointed out in one of his last interviews - demons are born. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u61	And I, Mr. Fokas, because you were consistent in time. Mr. Antonios Balomemakis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u62	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning. I have noticed, ladies and gentlemen, that the list of words used by the Opposition in order to describe the balancing measures which for the first time are laid down as a counterweight to what is due to be done. The characterizations give and they take. I do not want to say that he was serious - nor even zealously approached the previous ones, because the previous ones did exaggerate. I note, in any case, that all the vocabulary has been almost exhausted. I have noticed the position of a co-legislator in fact, who seems to have not quite assimilated the line of the new party. Speaking yesterday he said that the measures are nonexistent, fantastic, "battery" is a virtual reality. He then described them as materially, obviously because he is not convinced that it is not fantastic measures, but measures that will take flesh and bone in the existing world, at a particular time and at a particular place. One word was also not heard by the Opposition. It is the word 'elections'. So far it has been the permanent annoying inclination of any position of an anti-population strain at each major meeting. I don't know, really, if Mr. Mitsotakis says so later, but so far, no one has ever pronounced her. And I noticed that the rapporteur of the New Democracy, coming down from the Step, said, "it is time for the sovereign people to assume their responsibilities". It is a phrase which can also be interpreted as a dead one, that is to say, of the New Democracy to the Greek people for apathy, or rather for the refusal of society to understand its obsessed with the elections. The deadlocks of the New Democracy are not a regular one, but a strategic one. This proves its refusal to vote on the proposed relief measures and its supposed army thus suggests to the accidental, hasty, unrelentingly own measures, hoping to win some impressions. But society, especially today with the wide spread of media, learns quickly and as quickly as it learns, its demands go up. Any political formation perceives it is rescued. Anyone who still perceives citizens as a field of regular movement is taking a high risk of being isolated. I would like to conclude by saying that the sooner it internalizes the failure of these extremes in the New Democracy, the better it will be for the political system, because - as is well said - the country, apart from a serious, effective and visionary government, also needs a responsible opposition. I would like to point out two points in the bill, which were not raised as positive. These are the amendments made to Law 3023 on the financing of parties. In my view, it is a first major success and a situation which reflects the conclusions of the committee of inquiry that delivered its conclusion in January that we have been passed. It provides some new elements and ensures transparency and, in particular, the protection of public money given to political parties in a number of provisions. The control of financing is defined, and, above all, it is now forbidden, as in the past, to provide funding without transparency as a guarantee for future loans. The reasoned decision on lending shall be adopted. These are issues which have been debated and dealt very strongly with public opinion at the beginning of this year and have actually exposed the two parties of old bi-groupism precisely to the extent and depth of their obligations towards the state's finances, i.e. to return the money they have borrowed in general. I also want to say another positive development. I think Mr. Athanasios went to say something about Article 62, but he didn't have time. As an old judge, I hope he would say that this is a positive provision, because the main feature of the arrangements under Article 62 and the following is that the institution is being upgraded and there is provision for the use of support services. These provisions for the first time emphasise the priority consideration of cases that seriously harm the public interest, such as money and bribery. And so the public feeling is satisfied and the essence of hell, which is general prevention, seems to be better served, better to come to consider and judge the cases as close as possible to their timing, to be fresh in people's memory. I would like to end with a reference to the attempt to restore normality in collective labour law. The consequences of this simple provision in Article 16 are not only exhausted. It is an attempt to reverse the climate, because the Greek people must know that, in implementation of Law 4024 and other anti-virtual laws, and in particular Article 4 in the notorious Act 6 of the 2012 Ministerial Council, all collective rights acquired in previous decades are literally deleted. If you don't realize this thing, you can't understand what titanic effort it takes to reverse the climate and get with a principle of positive regulation. We must say that in order to get here, namely, to have a specific date express and binding that collective labour law will begin to be restored, very good preparation has been made, hard struggles have been given by the Ministry of Labour's staff, struggles with commitment, knowledge-based, and above all by using international support, taking advantage of the European acquis and international labour organisations, and of course it has been properly prepared with explicit references to the previous texts. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In a second I shall end, Mr President. We had to deal with not only the basic insistence and ideological commitment of the opponents, but also the inner enemy, namely, the extreme concepts of BSE, and, secondly, the willingness to echo every anti-government political proposal, namely the New Democracy. Finally, I want to say that this arrangement is a victory, but it is a starting point at the same time. A lot has to be done and done. I have optimism. The aim is one and it remains. The world of work finally needs to come out of this dystopic today to which the previous policies have condemned it and to return to the rights and conquests for which many decades of struggles have taken place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u63	Mr Ioannis Giolas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Before addressing the assessment and weighting of the positive forecasts and the existing negative measures of the draft law, it is necessary to render the overall political framework and to illustrate the contour of the purpose, but also the objectives that are removed from the provisions of a multi-thematic legislation. We are spending the eighth time that the country is experiencing under strict fiscal adjustment and reforms. It was imposed as an antidote to the serious crisis by the partners, through the European financial stability mechanisms and the International Monetary Fund. The uprooting policies, the failures, the wrong forecasts and assumptions of the institutions imposed by consensus, but the representatives of the old and responsible for the unprecedented crisis of the domestic political system have not been able to bring the country back to normality. The measures have been based on a harsh and particularly burdensome fiscal adjustment, even based on a punishing and disgraceful attitude to the Greek people. In the area of reforms, the forces of interlocutory have not taken the essential measures required to improve administrative structures, but have remained committed to the rule of co-responsibility, the acquisition of political clientele and anxiety. They encouraged and mixed up with the public procurement systems. They adopted the tactics of the distorting entrepreneurship of state-owned colleges. They were congratulated and embraced closely with the big-timers and owners of the other media. They watched indifferently and did not intervene in the institutions to improve the justice system and actively surrounded the range of social services. Our Government, by voting for the memorandum under the difficult and unavoidable conditions of the summer of 2015, after a painful compromise, sought to alleviate the debt with mild, sustainable and fair measures. It is no use going back, but for those who want to believe that the Greek people are diligent, we should remember that yesterday's forces have been those who have often cut wages and pensions, have surrounded labour rights and so on. Because, as I said before, there is the programme that is the product of tough negotiation, but it does not cease to be the product of compromise, which is neither worthwhile nor the rules of rationalisation to assess it as efficient and fair, we have proceeded and accelerated the adoption of social and economic measures necessary for returning to sustainable and fair growth with the so-called parallel programme. I'm not going to do this. However, I shall refer to a number of measures taken in the wider sector of the economy, which reasonably employs the whole of Greek society and also the institutions. Accelerating: the introduction of electronic transactions and electronic invoicing, self-declared disclosure of undeclared income, the extrajudicial compromise and the legislative framework for the management of red loans, the acceleration of licensing, the development law with a visible shift towards medium-term entrepreneurship, newly-born enterprises and the strengthening of tertiary graduates. Are we happy with what we have done over these two years and a few years to reverse the hard materialistic path and to aim at economic recovery and change the necessary institutional and social structures of the country? Honestly, we should respond that we are not as much as we would like. The reasons are many and well-known, mainly exogenous, but come from us themselves: threats, inefficiency, lack of proper coordination. We took measures that we did not believe and did not want. On one point, however, ladies and gentlemen, we can answer unequivocally: we have not given the slightest hint or suspicion, so that we may be accused of having trouble and dishonesty. This society knows that, despite the objections, the bitterness and the denial of many of their expectations, it credits us with our untreated attachment to honesty and morality, justice and democracy, and with regard to law and executive power. To get to the answer to the original questions I have raised: The economic and political environment in our country and in Europe I have tried to illustrate this. For the Charter, as it says, exit the crisis, we are already a step ahead of the second assessment, where we believe in less than a week, in the Eurogroup of 22 May, a political agreement will be reached - evaluation, which will include the way in which the next 7.5 billion instalment is paid, the find of the gold incision between the IMF and the European Union, so that we can reach a reduction in the debt by identifying and medium-term measures, the achievement of the debt agreement, so that Greek bonds are also expected to join the ECB's quantitative relaxation system. At the beginning of next year, 2018, we will be able to test the markets and with sufficient capacity after the end of the programme, i.e. since 21 August 2018, in order to achieve self-finance the country by means of markets. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. The latter will also mean the most decisive step towards the end of the comitology and dependency, and will allow the country to be largely segregated into the exercise of socially just and economically viable policy. We are moving with stability, security and certainty the steps to come out of the crisis and, in time, the Greek people will eliminate the feelings of defeat, individualism and pessimism, which, apart from the experienced reality of the existence, many and varied as they invented it, so that we can look back ahead to a Greece free of the memorials and the dependence of neoliberal policy, imposed by the financial oligarchy and the economic directorate of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u65	Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandos from New Democracy followed by Mr. Athanasios Michalis from SYRIZA. Mr. Katsafad, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u66	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, after what we have heard these three days, I can only congratulate you on the great success you have had. You managed through the red lines and the tough negotiation to reduce the pensions to 18% from where you would restore them. To reduce the tax exemption from the EUR 9,500 that you took in January 2015, first at EUR 8,600, and now at EUR 5,680, of the 12,000 you once fed. This, of course, shows your sensitivity to the socially weak, since the rich of EUR 460 a month will now pay tax. However, it is also a personal success of Mr Tsakalotou, the Minister for Finance, which is why he is still in his place, showing that the left before his authorities does not count on any posts or posts. You increase insurance contributions to free professionals, traders and farmers, punishing those who managed to survive the Katorugalou law. Remove tax deduction of 10% for medical expenses of natural persons. You introduce a single night tax of 0.5 euros per day and a room in tourist accommodation to obviously help the competitiveness of our tourism industry. The commercial value is defined as a starting price in the real estate auctions seized by the Ministry of Finance. You cut the pile of family benefits and do not limit the sum of heating oil to 58 million out of 210 in 2014, because - as you know - you managed not to make cold in Greece, as a song says. Of course you impose shock cuts on special payrolls in 2017 and 2018, in the favorite professional class of the Security Councils and the military, that is, those defending our country's borders, while just yesterday, on Monday, we had a hundred and four violations of the national airspace by the Turks. So disgraceful they imagine in your eyes! And the police, of course, who work for the orderly order in society, naturally against their almost daily visitors from Exarchia and the results of the famous "law of Friday" in relation to increasing crime. I would like to say that since September 2016 the Police Officers' Associations have been looking for Mr. Juliarakis for a meeting, who, of course, could not see them with so much work. But these are minor issues for you, as it turns out. Well, congratulations to you and the Prime Minister for all this. Because he remained faithful to his principles and commitments, because he managed to bring two and a half years' time and even to originalize, the latter and without funding. Because, if it were not for five billion measures that you will be voting on this evening, we would have to take 210 billion, because they were pushing him for forty-two times more, as he said in an interview. Of course, there is a fairy tale with countermeasures, what should be done and implemented should have primary surpluses of 5.5 %, which is impossible, and they should first be approved by creditors and, most importantly, by the International Monetary Fund. That's the situation. Then, of course, once all of this is done, the Greeks - those who have left - will also be able to fruit these countermeasures, which you are saying. So do not degrade, ladies and gentlemen, so much the intelligence of the winter people of Greece. These can be kept for you, to think that the idol you see when standing in front of the mirror may remind you of something. However, with the memorandum you are bringing, you continue to commit the work of the next governments as well. You are doing this with the super-money in which you joined the entire state's property for the remaining ninety-nine years. It shall be managed jointly with the lenders. You did it with the banks, as the ESS has managed the Greek banking system for at least thirty five years. You are doing so now, binding the country on beastly primary surpluses until at least 2021, which, as I said, is absolutely impossible. All this, why, ladies and gentlemen? To reach the country where you received it in January 2015. Two and a half years of harsh austerity and extreme tax raid throughout society, two more memorials, closed banks, further poverty of the Greek people, over-crowded, so much tax measures and all that to remain in recession as the only eurozone country and without being able to catch the 2014 GDP. I do not know whether these results are the result of the incompetence and amateurism that governs you, the inability to read the environment in which you are moving, or - as some Makabels claim - it is the result of a left-wing distortion, which says that we will give so much pain to the Greek people in the euro and in Europe, which we will force him to seek to leave on its own, isolate and alienate. One thing is certain, however, ladies and gentlemen: when you rely only on populism and demagogy, when you divide the people to have only political benefits, not least for national good, and when you rely on lies, addicted to the charm of power and the power that comes from it, especially at such critical times for the country, then the demise will come soon and with noise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u67	Mr. Athanasios Michalis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the law that leads to the closure of the second assessment, to decisions on impairment - debt relief and quantitative relaxation, i.e. gradual improvement of the country's economic data and a reasonable exit from the suffocating surveillance in August 2018. Therefore, the issue is not only limited to accounting and evaluation of economic results, measures - countermeasures, which are reasonably of direct interest to citizens, but also extend to the economic environment created in the country and internationally for the country. They are paradoxical - if not appropriate - speeches of counter-population, which on the one hand highlight the need to develop a strategy and a regular country's exit from the crisis and, on the other, they are confined only to comments on negative measures and, above all, to classifications for the government, without an alternative proposal. It is clear that the strategy of the New Democracy - but not just - is limited to the one-dimensional slogan 'you leave, we come again'. What can anyone assume? Deprivation of power syndrome, or an anguish of some in the face of committees of inquiry? It is accompanied by excitements of their own self-proved knowledge of government policy and affairs management. Instead of a proposal, they mainly propose deceptive, insulting designations to the government, SYRIZA, the MPs. Who? Those who brought the country into the current situation, those who consider that the country's history began in January 2015 and therefore, it is all the fault of SYRIZA, those who do not forget the recent and former past, who say "critical, so we have become exterminated", as if we were discussing the confession of repentant Christians and not a political party with deep roots in the economic elite of the country and the state that have been building for years as their organ, those who have been interconnected with mass media, in which news is their opinion and their criticism reaches ridiculousness. I give examples of recent examples: He writes a well-known site: 'Achtsioglou whistle of SYRIZA Members'. Unfortunately for them, Minister Ahchioglu at this particular meeting was absent. Refers to the news of a well-known channel: "Unorthodox the Prime Minister's gift to his Chinese counterpart", referring to the Kazantzakis 'Odysea'. Suppose they were ignoring the writing Kazantzakis in the same book, or did they choose his gebelist tactics'say, say something will remain', or would they be absorbed by 'Survivor' don't even know Kazantzakis? With the adoption of this draft law, it closes the second assessment of the Programme 2015-2018, a painful programme that I recall was passed in August 2015 by two hundred twenty-one MPs of the Greek Parliament, I assume since then with the expectation of several anti-populations not to complete and lead to a fall of the SYRIZA government, which has been anticipated. One needs to be modest and humble in order to be able to deal with this decently. This expectation continued to be expressed in the most emphatic and unprecedented way for the country's Greek and modern parliamentary data with the New Democracy's request for elections, immediately three, four months after the September 2015 parliamentary elections. This request set out the entire strategy of Officerial Response, leading to its executives in extreme, unprecedented political positions. I would remind you: New Democracy MPs' attitude to be invoked to the European Parliament by European officials, when they expressed positive views on objectives achieved by the Greek Government. Recently a critical attitude of a New Democracy MP towards a European official for positive comments at a parliamentary committee meeting. So the second evaluation is closed. A corridor opens for transition to normality. The aim is to remove from the string of burdensome agreements, which have always been combined with a strict commission, that is, what has been happening in the country since 2010, with the ultimate responsibility of the PASOK and New Democracy governments. I will point out that this responsibility is not limited from 2010 onwards, but decades ago. When paradoxes came in with the domestic support programs, they divided them either by forming new fireplaces or by transferring them as deposits abroad. When they supported the state-owned entrepreneurship because they had something to take as a "gift". When they saw that they gradually degraded the country's productive tissue, but they did not care. Who? Experiments? Politicians? Reliable partners? The above-mentioned suspects? When they built a state inefficient, but effective for party mechanisms. When 2015 was the political turn, their first reaction and their desire was that it was a left parentheses. When they saw that was not verified, they were led to "elections, to leave as soon as possible". Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that political controversy must be done by quoting data and confronting positions, not by insulting, personal designations and mocking. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall end. Let us confine ourselves to the essence of our different policies. The difficult social conditions in which our country came together with deadlocked policies, the abovementioned unacceptable behaviors of civilian staff and several media hatch the snake egg, extreme right and fascism. Proposal from the Commission to the Council for a regulation amending Regulation (EEC) No 1612/68 on the common organization of the market in beef and veal and repealing Regulation (EEC) No 1612/68 on the common organization of the market in beef and veal and Regulation (EEC) No 1612/68 on the common That's the point. The government today brings a proposal into a comprehensive plan of exiting the spiral of the crisis. Refusal without a proposal is obviously not a convincing response, and much more a return to the vicious past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u69	Mr Dimitrios Kremastinos, Vice-President of the Parliament, has the floor on behalf of the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u70	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I always avoid talking to 'we' and 'you' because I think that is wrong. There is something, however, that we all believe that without growth, everyone is saying it - without investment, wages and pensions will shrink to the disappearance. I do not think anyone in the Chamber has a different view. The Scientific Council of Parliament, which invokes decisions of the Court of Auditors and of the Council of State, warns that the law we are discussing and vote on - those who vote on it - is unconstitutional or can become unconstitutional. To date, eleven decisions of the Council of State make anti-constitutional laws, headed by the decision on the Broadcasting Council. The question is not that. My question is this: Members who will vote in their knowledge of all these measures have not heard that the productive classes, as expressed here in Parliament, are all opposed? Do they not know that at least 60% of the Greek people, as illustrated by the election result and not by the polls, are they with the parties that are against the measures? So they assume a serious responsibility for those who vote. The question is: Sacrifice for the homeland? I would say those who vote to be sacrificed for their homeland. What are the chances of this being sacrificed and achieved? We hope that the quantitative relaxation we will have from the European Central Bank, Draghi, with the removal of capital controls will change the climate. If this does not happen, then there is no discussion. However, I will call for a statement by the Prime Minister a few months ago and in particular he says: "Ladies and gentlemen, it is absolutely impossible for primary surpluses of 3.5% after 2018 to be maintained and indeed for several years". We are talking about that by 2022 at least there will be. And it continues: "Unless we want to hit the Greek economy and keep having long-term stagnation conditions." If you were investors in a country and heard the Prime Minister say these things, and you knew that the country is bankrupt, and you knew that it has capital control, and you knew that the primary surpluses are coming out of the lag and not the surplus - i.e. tax, etc. - would you come to invest in this country? Tell me! No one would come. I hope my logic will be disproved. But, in any case, logic says that. But I don't stop this far. In Cyprus, which I consider to be a more mature sign of Hellenism, communists, right-wing, extreme right-wing people said that since we have chosen this road, namely to stay in the euro and the euro zone - and I am talking about the Cypriots - we will apply the recipe that we are told. We here, all the parties that came to power after 2010, had a different recipe. And New Democracy and SYRIZA. What was the result? To have these memorials and the lasting memorial now that's unknown when it's over. However, Cyprus is celebrating today because it had an increase of 3.5% of GDP. When are we going to celebrate an increase in GDP of 3.5%? This is the real picture. Of course, the government has ruled for two and a half years. The problem is that - and on television we see it - the cohort fights continue: "We, you, who made the most mistakes, the fewer mistakes" etc. No one is discussing the conditions for growth. Can it be developed, for example, if the New Democracy comes alone tomorrow to implement these measures? I'm asking you, may I? It can't be! Therefore, what is being proposed is in some way consensus. Can there be consensus, however, if the parties of the so-called 'democratic arch' or if you want the European arch - fewer - do not consent to at least a government having a single tax system which has one-off investment incentives, which tells investors 'come to invest, does not change the regime, your taxation will be that'? Can it be done with any government? Can an investor know that the New Democracy will come tomorrow - I say this as an example, because it takes precedence in the polls - and believe that he will secure his money if he invests in opposing everyone else? You realize this is a dead end. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. No one, however, puts these questions and much more television, which take advantage of the pains of those people whose wages and pensions are shrinking, and weep every morning on television, because they have television screening, and they should normally discuss how we consent to development. These self-evident things, unfortunately, concern me personally. I regret that most of us are not concerned in this Chamber and we are constantly discussing what is known as 'we, you', which unfortunately do not lead anywhere. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u71	Two more colleagues will speak, Mr Bukokouros and Mr Stamatis. Then I will give the floor to the Minister, Mr. Theanos Fotou, and then Mrs. Skoufas, Mr. Spartinos, Mr. Jellonis, Mr. Thivaios, Mrs. Kefalidou and then the Deputy Minister, Mrs. Papanatsiou. Here you go, Mr. Bukoro, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am afraid I do not have much to say. In both committees and in plenary, everything has been discussed. I fear, however, that the majority Members of the majority have not realised either the depth of the crisis or the historical weight of the vote on this fourth memorandum. I see that they are happy and pleased to support the bill without a trace of self-criticism, voting for it. I guess they're used to it since it's the second memorial in two years. Always the first time is difficult for all things. Some deplore the fact that support from foreign players is unthinkable and are not concerned about the fact that unscrupulous memorialists have turned themselves into persuasive trustees of lenders and other centres as a whole. We would say that this fourth memorandum is the ultimate proof of the change in the government's majority, which is prepared to vote everything in order to remain in power, because substantial guarantees for the country's exit from the crisis do not provide any more general government policy than this fourth memorandum does. You are being caught in new delusions, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, saying that "Along with the measures we bring the countermeasures and the financial footprint of this fourth memorandum is nil". You arbitrarily equate the painful measures that are currently being passed and made the state's law with the announcement of countermeasures. A simple reading of Article 15 proves my claim, because that is where the lenders have put in the Memorandum which is signed today all the conditions, which are many and difficult, in order to implement these countermeasures. As a result, and because I hear many colleagues in this House invoking and suggesting the morality and honesty of the government majority, you know, ladies and gentlemen, that in your personal life I cannot blame anyone and I respect you all and I have no doubt that you are moral and honest. In your political life, where does this morality and honesty arise from? Is it moral and honest to go on for once in the deception of the Greek society and the electorate, to have won, promising that you will smash the memorials and sign the third Memorandum and now come and tell the Greek people that I will give you countermeasures after I sign a fourth Memorandum? Is that a moral advantage for the Left? I would expect greater and deeper self-criticism, because the memorandum today shows how? As an obligation of the country? Did the country have any obligation to sign a third and fourth Memorandum? It is the political policy followed by the government which has led us after the capital controls to the signature of the third memorandum and the recession that is continuing today that leads us to sign the fourth memorandum. It's so clear. Instead of considering and making self-criticism in depth and calling again for the consent of the Greek people, you are happy to vote for the fourth memorandum. I'm sorry, colleagues! This in no way recommends any supremacy of morality and honesty towards other political forces. Of course, the fact of the argument that 'they too have been doing' is a confession that you are the same and worse than those you blame. Let us now come to the content. The total cuts for pensioners, for this fragile order, since 2015, totalling about what is included in the fourth Memorandum, up to 2021 are 6.5 billion. That is to say, 1,1 billion for these six years from the pensioners. That's what the numbers say. What you said about you are not going to make any pension cuts. Freelance professionals are charged at 37% to 61% in their insurance contributions. You're reducing VAT on agricultural supplies. That's right. But didn't you raise him? You remember Hoja's story with animals at home, i.e. after you fill it, then remove one. I'd like to say two words about the soldiers. Is it possible in an environment of this kind of geopolitical liquidity, when our neighbours constantly show their teeth, to achieve such a blow particularly to the middle soldiers, to the women and men of the Armed Forces who are called to defend the country in such difficult circumstances? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will conclude in a minute, Mr President. We could say a lot more, but they have been said by competent and worthwhile colleagues. But the transfer of all state-owned property, the transport agencies, the highways to the supermarket also shows your future intentions. Ladies and gentlemen, you know what you are voting on today and when you stop being MPs, because you have demonstrated this fanaticism and this party commitment to vote for measures for the future. The first time such painful measures are passed. Indeed, the Prime Minister may promise tsunami investment, but I wonder whether, with such a tax regime and such an enemy of private investment, this promise can be realised. Mr. Tsipras promises he can wear a tie. Meanwhile, his policy has passed the nest on the neck of the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty-six students and students and six educational attendants from the 1st Elementary School of Psachoni Evia and the 2nd Zannio Private School of Heraklion. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Stamatis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the measures in the Fourth Memorandum. I want to be clear because it's a fourth memorandum. It is a fourth memorandum, firstly because it has new measures beyond the third Memorandum, secondly because these measures will be implemented after the expiry of the third memorandum and thirdly because Article 15 has changed roles which until yesterday in the memorandum. So it has clearly three features of a new memorial. It's purely fourth Memorandum. What I have doubts about is whether it is a fourth memorandum or an ongoing fourth memorandum. I am sorry that the Ministers responsible are not here at the moment - that does not mean anything, Mr Ministers, but they are the ones who negotiated - because I wanted to make a few things clear. Why did these new measures come about? Where did they come from? When you signed the third memorandum, there were no such measures. What was that? You have to say it. Is it because of your lenders or your delay, that old-fashioned negotiation, which reloads the cost of your heroism? Secondly, you say that these measures are budgetaryly neutral. If the lenders hear it, they'll fall back and laugh. Do you think that all these months the International Monetary Fund has been sitting in order to fight for measures that are budgetaryly neutral? Are we serious? We're serious, Mr. Chakaloto, where you're missing and you won't listen to me? But the basic problem of the International Monetary Fund - and we all know it - is to reduce the debt, to be the debt sustainable. It goes in two directions: it seeks debt reduction and it calls for new measures to speed up procedures so that debt can be sustainable. So this barbecue that sounds here is an insult to Parliament. They certainly have a budgetary burden. The difference is that the measures are immediate, you will vote and you will apply them, while the countermeasures are 'five', they are for the future. They will depend on when and whether the International Monetary Fund considers that surpluses cover budgetary objectives and have sustainability beyond 2021. Thirdly, within the terms of the new memorandum, it is also a condition, a request - and the government must tell us what it will do on it - to lenders that these measures will not be overturned before the Greek courts. Already the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, but above all the Court of Auditors, one of the three highest courts in the country and the court most competent to judge such cases, says: 'We warn that they are likely to be unconstitutional'. Today, under the Rules of Procedure, you have the right to move forward. Of course! However, the question is what you will do when these cases are tried at the Court of Auditors. Besides, what do lenders say about this problem? No one from the government should tell us - because they are informed - what is going to happen with this provision of not cancelling the measures by Greek courts, which is now visible? And I go to the fourth: what is the role of the International Monetary Fund? I implied him a moment ago. Who is it? Your colleague, Mr. Friend, told you yesterday. It recommends a comitology. You have brought the International Monetary Fund as a permanent monitor and a Commissioner not only until the end of the memorandum but beyond. That's what you've achieved. Can we see what you think of the government's opinion of the International Monetary Fund? I shall read Mr Tsakalotou's statements. On February 12 - a few months ago, he said: “It is to laugh at Tomsen. The International Monetary Fund is interested in the size of the surplus. He does not care about the size of the 2019 surplus, but he uses it to push us into measures such as pension and tax-free." That was a resistance rock. That's what he told you to your Central Committee. He said: 'White cheque we do not give'. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Now do you know what the government is doing? He's signing a white cheque, forging the signature. Because these measures will be implemented by the next government. So it's a forgery carabinat. You have neither the moral nor the political right to do so. I close - I do not have time to say everything - with another topic: Mr Tsakalots the other day, trying to show that we are untrustworthy, used a saying of Darwin: Ignorance leads to self-confidence more than knowledge. When Mr Tsakalotos said what I said to you a moment ago, when he said 'I will give up if the tax falls', when the International Monetary Fund recently said that the pre-legislation of measures is entirely undemocratic and unacceptable, he said them unintentionally or intentionally in intention to defraud the Greek people and the Greek Parliament. He made another bump. What did he do? It presented the overall benefits of society with the countermeasures of 7.5 billion. However, these 7.5 billion are cumulatively three years old. If he wanted to compare them with the cost of the measures, he would have to accumulate the loss of at least the pensioners who caused the three years.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u75	Mr. Stopatis, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u76	I shall conclude, Mr President. So if we compare the sizes, then the Pan-Eleucian seven goals and Barcelona five didn't set. The Gleesian put seven, and Barcelona put thirty. You tell him that I'm very sorry, but following that finding that they understood it in the Pan-Eleisian, they're not going to invite him to wear the "9" shirt as a scorer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u77	Mr. Stopatis, I can't give you any more time. Excuse me. Close now, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u78	I'm closing, Mr. President. To make it clear, the measures we have to vote on are true. It's real. It hurts. The countermeasures are 'fets' if and if so. And if you do not want to accept my definition, that it is 'fly', you are obliged to accept what your colleague Mr. Friends has developed yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u79	We heard what Mr. Friend said. Hang up, Mr. Stamatis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u80	So Mr Philis said that when countermeasures are implemented, they would be a redistribution between the poor and the poorer. Enjoy them!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u81	Minister Theano Fotio has the floor for ten minutes. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are debating here reflects a difficult and painful agreement, the result of a narcotic-drug-drug-drug-drug-drug-drug-drug-drug-drug-drug-drug-drug-drug-drug-drug-drug-drug-drug-drug-drug-drug-drug-drug-drug-drug-drug-drug-drug-drug-drug-drug-drug-drug-drug-dg-drug-dg-drug-drug-drug-dg-drug-drug-drug-drug-drug-dged-drug-dged-drug-drug-dged-drug-dged-drug-d-drug-d-drug-d-drug-d-d-dged-d-drug-dly-drug-dly-drug-dly-dly-dly-dly-dly-dund-dly-dly-dund-dly-dly-dly-dly-dly-dly-dly-dund-dund-dly-dly-d-dly-dly-dly-dly-dly-dly-dly-dly-dly-d-dly-dly-dly-dly-dly-dly-dly-dly-dly-dly-dly-d-dly-d-d-dly-d-d-d-d-d-dly-d-dly-d-d-dund-dly-dly-dly-dly-d-dly-dly-dly-dly-dly-d-d-d-d-d-d-d-d-d-d-dly-dly-d-d-dly-d A throat, catastrophic, risky, pseudology scans the country all these months now. It is taking off these days in this Chamber, however, to the limits of irrationality. All this has a single objective: political amnesia. It is intended to bring collective amnesty to the two parties, New Democracy and PASOK, political amnesty that they need so much to return to power and to ensure, if necessary, criminal amnesty, as they have done up to now. It is intended to forget, that the debt created by PASOK and New Democracy in the years of prosperity and that much of it is due to the complexity, corruption, the remula that prevailed in all sectors, undisturbed and supported by the governments of the old regime in favour of specific class interests. Our debt has led to the most brutal commission, with the IMF that has brought PASOK to Europe and Greece for the first time and has resulted in the loss of part of our national sovereignty. This is the sloppy trio of the Greek tragedy, dear: corruption, debt, comitology. The agreement we are bringing is the price for debt settlement and exiting the comitology, but it is also the promise that corruption will be revealed and that it will be eroded with institutions that will not allow it to re-root. We assure you, those who have reason to worry about continuing to worry. It is our promise to create a new social state that promotes positive countermeasures, a condition for productive reconstruction, fair growth and work for all. The rabies battle you've given these days here is for your return to power against any honor. Just two years you've been removed by a double decision of the Greek people from the chairs of power and you can't stand it. In addition to the personal dependence of power, you are being pushed by the private interests you served, financing your parties and your political careers, but also by the fact that you see the edges of the blanket that cover the big scandals rise and there is hope to be revealed to the Greek people where the wealth that has produced so many years of prosperity and which he has enjoyed little. The agreement is very difficult to deal with when for five years you have tied the country to abundantly. It is difficult because it concerns those social strata, the popular classes that have brought us to the government, and we want to continue to represent them, in order to be at the forefront and not to become invisible, as they were all these years, directly dependent on the political authority in question. That is why we demanded and achieved the countermeasure programme. For the same reason, the New Democratic and Democratic Partnership erase them. And if you find yourself in power in 2019, as you dream, you will not do so because they violate your neoliberal ideology and deprive the sources from which your client state was irrigating. I challenge you to disprove me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u83	Now you're cutting your allowances and talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u84	There are, of course, other voices in the Chamber that claim to be crumbs and that concern exclusively poverty and extreme poverty. Therefore, the 2 billion for 2019 and the 4 billion for 2020. That's a strange idea of crumbs!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u85	Is that New Democracy's fault again? Cut the benefits!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u86	As is also the view that social protection, that is, welfare, is only about poverty. I'm so sorry! The welfare, ladies and gentlemen, is about protecting the child, about all social strata. It concerns the elderly from all the social layers, the disabled from all the social layers. The ones who rent a house or have a loan for it from all the social strata. Of course, the most deprived of the crisis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u87	In two years, will you feed them?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u88	In 2015 we received from New Democracy and PASOK for the provision of a budget of 800 million. In 2016, we voted for a budget of 1.5300,000, which we are implementing. So we doubled him. Thirdly, we will vote for 2018 - very quickly in time - a greater amount than that. And you're saying we're cutting off the benefits? No falseer. You know what you're saying, we're cutting off the unprotected child's allowance. On the contrary, it was 2 million of what existed for the unprotected child's allowance and 4 million have become the ones that are embedded in the CRL today. Because with this evidence the unprotected child was getting the allowance, the same as the CRL. We doubled it and I'm very sorry you didn't understand anything. However, in 2018, which is very close, we will vote for the budget for 2019 and will be due to the countermeasures the welfare budget of 2,730,000, that is, three and a half times more than the one we received. I've told you before. The numbers are ruthless, and they don't do you the favors. How about the countermeasures for the kid? What's going on? We doubled the budget for the child. Of the 650 million we received, it will be 1,250 billion against the countermeasures. What does that mean? All families with one to two children and with incomes of 27,000 euros or more - is it the extreme poverty with a child? - they will have free access to the kindergartens, which we are increasing to. Two thousand eight hundred are infants today and we will add another thousand eight hundred. It's a budget. 50% of Greek families with children from six to fifteen years of age in primary school and high school will have school meals. Is all these people in poverty and extreme poverty? They're four hundred and fifty thousand children. It is shameful for you to go through school meals. School meals are another culture in Greek school. It is what creates new principles of fellowship and relationship between children. We saw it where we applied it. School's up. Increased and improved school behavior. Shame on you, college porphyrogens to talk about masses!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u89	Are you poor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u90	In public, you call it a mess when you guys called it a college lunch!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u91	Is that college porphyry? Are you poor? The poor girl with the money outside?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u92	The second measure...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u93	Easy, easy! It's easy to enter "GOOOGLE" and see who's from college and who ended the high school in Vyron, like me. It's simple.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u94	We increase family allowances by 40% with emphasis...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u95	Are we from colleges? Instead of embarrassing yourself, are you saying "shut us"?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u96	Calm down! Keep going, Mrs. Fotio.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u97	We increase by 40%, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u98	Is that an attitude, Mr President? Is that an attitude, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u99	Can you say ‘your shame’ and ‘your shame’?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, we will not censorship to speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u101	Saying "your shame"? To your children, say your disgrace!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u102	Aren't we going to censorship? Whoever gets up...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u103	Rescind. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u104	Mr. Davakis, please. I won't be quiet again. I'm gonna stand up and impose sanctions on anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u105	Say 'your shame' and 'your shame'! Did he come here to serve? We're not gonna do well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u106	..the credit.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u107	Mr. Kutsuko, do you need to be celebrious? [[Noise in the Chamber]] I'll give you two minutes further, Minister, don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u108	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u109	Saying ‘your shame’ and ‘your shame’?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u110	Stop it! Stop it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u111	He is launching threats, he says, 'we won't do well'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u112	The credit...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u113	Mr. Kutsuko, you don't need to be celebrious, calm down. Especially you. You don't need to be peculiar.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u114	Did he come here to engrave us?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u115	Mrs. Vulture, please. But why does it necessarily have to awk you? Calm down, please. College porphyrogens don't exist from here alone, there are from here. Well, he could have cursed them from here. Take it easy, then. Continue, Minister, for another two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr President, for the support. We increase family allowances by 40% with emphasis on the first and second children. In other words, from 650 million for seven hundred thousand families will become 900 million. The second measure concerns 60% of the rented population. Are they in poverty and extreme poverty? It is about 60% of the rented population. For the first time, six hundred thousands of families are subsidised with 1,000 euros a year. The third measure, but also many others that I will not develop, because I only live in welfare, concerns 80% of the population, which will be covered by its pharmaceutical expenditure, namely personal incomes of EUR 14 400 per year. Is that poverty? It is obvious from what I have said that the measures do not concern extreme poverty and poverty. They are about the state's pro-active policy. Is it, Members, in this way, a privileged state? No, of course not. For the last two years we have been trying day to rinse out the founding and subsidizing state that we received, waste your purely customer mechanism and create a state of welfare, solidarity, protection and dignity. Of course, we protect the extreme poverty with little money, with these 750 million from the CRL. But that's not it. It is all the national mechanism that we set up, with two hundred and fifty four community centres, with three registers for the first time linked to all the databases of the state. Why didn't you ever connect them? Why shouldn't the man in Kavala, who was going to the community centre, know how many allowances he was getting up to that moment, how much more should he get to which institution he had to put his father on what programme, state or NSRP, should he be involved? Why didn't that happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u117	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u118	I shall conclude, Mr President. So we're doing this with the electronic recording that we've been through by law. Within three months all institutions, private and public, must have recorded their assets, their income, their positions, their people, by electronic recording. You voted for it, many of you, and I'm glad. For the first time, we will have a picture of what is happening in the thousands of five hundred, about, private institutions and various businesses, and in the sixty-four, all and all, public, for the first time, linked to the citizen. Thirdly, we create a Single Payment Authority for all...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u119	Third and last. I'm warning you there's no fourth one.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u120	I have a suggestion. We create a Single Payment Authority of all benefits, the new OGA, with all files. There won't be anyone who doesn't know what to get and when to get it. The Single Benefit Authority will work in September. Know that 2 billion countermeasures donate this new social state of protection. That is what we will be here and we will implement it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u121	We are now going to five of our colleagues, Mrs. Elisabeth Skoufa, Mr. Constantine Spartino, Mr. Michael Jeleigh, Mr. Nicholas Thebeios, Mrs. Hara Kefalidou. Then the State Secretary, Mr. Papanatsiou, will speak. So we shall continue, namely five Members and one Minister or a parliamentary representative. Here, Mrs. Scouffa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u122	The attempt at selective information and presentation of moments of reality - and not all of reality - is the permanent motto of this Chamber, mainly on the side of the counterpopulation. Madam Minister, Mrs Theanoo Fotio, I think you have failed to mention, as you deliberately omit to refer to the Chamber, that school meals are probably a sign of a developed and social state. Because school meals are served daily to all students, all school grades, in fourteen world countries, including underdeveloped US, Finland, Sweden, Japan, China, United Kingdom, France, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u123	As countermeasures?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u124	That was an introductory comment. Second introductory remark. Colleagues of the dear Communist Party of Greece, I think - if I may urge you - to mention more often in your speech that the basis of any criticism and any of your ideology is Soviete. Regardless of whether anyone agrees or disagrees with the model of states like the Soviet Union, I would remind you that even the particular supremacy of the Soviet Union has made historical slogans with Imperia at that time and at the expense of countries and peoples. Also, how Soviet society will suddenly grow in a country like Greece whose productive base has been deliberately looted for decades, is a great mystery to me. I now return to the main theme of my speech which, of course, concerns the other anti-population forces with their leader - the words chosen - are New Democracy. You tell us that we have wasted too much time in evaluation and that this has cost the Greek people millions of euros. You forget to say that when we were confronted, as a government, with the irrational and irresponsible demands of the IMF for only a few million euros worth of negative measures, which would pay ordinary mortgages, we once again said 'no'. The 'no' did not just say it in July and August 2015, but we say it every time we face unreasonable demands. So what was the convergence between the irrational demands of the IMF and the "no" once again of the Greek Government? The text of convergence is the text of this agreement which, for the first time, includes positive measures! Whether you like it or not, the text that we all have to vote on includes negative and positive measures. To come to the individual, you tell us that insurance contributions are over-increasing. I would like to say that thank you very much for the honour you are making to us, because for the amount of this increase you take as the basis of the 'Katrugalou' law, the law that we brought a few months ago and we voted for it! Because if you remember your own projects and days, the level of insurance contributions - for you who are lovers of numbers, but you do not always get paper and pencil to calculate the amount of measures and countermeasures - on your own days, and thank you for watching me carefully - the rate of 50% and 70% in an alleged income that was not actually produced. Why wasn't it really produced? The basis for calculating the insurance contributions was the working years and the insurance classes and not the actual income of the small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u125	But since we've reduced insurance contributions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u126	Did you hear what the agencies said?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u127	Take and make calculations, ladies and gentlemen. Take and do it for once all the pool together, not selective.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u128	Mercy in style, Mr. President. The finger's swinging. Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u129	Calm down! Neither will you convince Mrs. Scouffa or Mrs. Scouffa of course. There's no reason to fight.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u130	They also forget to tell us that we are forced to vote because of the slogan. And why did this conspiracy come? For the first time with "first-time Left" world organisations like the IMF come up and say that the debt is not sustainable and are committed to specific measures for unsustainable debt and settlement. So you're telling us... [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] I'll be done in a minute. Be patient. We're inconvenience, but it's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u131	Mr. Kikilia, from what he's seen, you're registered. You'll call them from a microphone so they'll be recorded. Mrs. Scouffa, close up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u132	I'm done. I could develop with paper and pencil all the real weight or all the real relief that the Greek people will have by 2022. I don't. Let me just tell you something, again selective. We are voting for the reduction in duty. Good? Oh, no!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u133	Please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u134	But this reduction of duty in combination...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u135	Can you hear me? Because you look like you're ignoring me!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u136	I'm done. ...with the reduction of tax rates...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u137	I'll turn you off your microphone while you keep ignoring me!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u138	...both for legal persons, as for small and medium-sized enterprises, finally see whether it will bring benefits, whether it will bring loss and what kind of loss. One sentence and I'll close.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u139	Oh, no! You're closing now!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u140	As much as you are trying to deceive the Greek people, the Greek people are well aware of what power - even within globalised capitalism - it is the one that defends him at all costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u141	Before I hand over the Chair to Mr Kremastinos, I would like to inform you that I have already given an order to be photographed and distributed to the rapporteurs a ministerial amendment tabled by Mrs Urania Antonopoulou. He'll be shot and distributed. Mr. Constantine Spartinos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr President. It is necessary, ladies and gentlemen, at this critical and decisive moment for the future of the Greek society and its economy, on the one hand, to consider how we have reached out to this and, on the other hand, what our goals are for the next period, today, which are coming for tough measures, but also positive, which first time coexist with the negative ones and aim to lead society out of the long-term crisis, a crisis that starts long before 2010, when we had growth for the 'globes', for the few fireplaces that shared the wealth of the country, what they today want to teach us the meaning of the word 'nature' that they have learned very well from the dictionaries. We had a political system for the sole purpose of managing the clientele state. We had a poor social state. And, of course, on this bare basis, when the first “single vibrations” of the crisis came, the structure collapsed. Along with him, the neoliberal account of prosperity, which would result from the deregulation of markets, controls, labour, the shrinking of the social state, also collapsed. Greece had the sad privilege of ruling by PASOK and New Democracy. In this government, ladies and gentlemen, it was not only the lot to get the country out of the Memorandum Committee. She received something much heavier: to get her out of the shackle of corruption, the interlocutory, the client-state, the course without bouzula, which was predetermined to lead her to the rocks. So it is a double target, a great challenge, a tough struggle, but we have taken it. We will not be hit by the perverting, malicious, vulgar attacks by some, but also desperate attacks by those who were ruling the country by 2015, nor by the zero criticisms of those with "revolutionary" confidently ignore today's global association of power, the condition, that is, of the political act. The New Democracy, seeing the final end of the phase of the "left parenthesis", that the slogan "here and now elections", has asked us to accept so many other measures, having revealed in heated crises that it does not want the assessment to be closed but that Tsipras, after rebuilding the Community within the astonishing European Parliament because he supports the Greek Government in becoming dangerous for the country and after finally failed to do so, since the assessment also closes the question of the settlement of the debt has already entered the final straight, now sacrificing the last drop of political severity that she has left, resorts to numerical and reasonable stunts, along with water characterisations from its distinguished executives to ensure its least abnormal political landing. I don't know if anyone needs to try to explain the PASOK attitude. Convincedly attached to the tail of the New Democracy, it is still left with the frozen smile of Kastelorizos on the lips, a smile collective and annoying. So what political feasibility does it make it necessary to vote against the articles which include measures that relieve our vast categories of fellow citizens, in addition to the stress and stubbornness of the last roll? How will you explain to those who are voting against that pensioner, who is admittedly affected by the reduction of personal differences, that you will not vote for the introduction of zero or reduced contributions to medicines, the rental allowance or first home loan, which may relate to him and his children, the reduction of HNPH, the allowance for the first and second children, the school meals and the free kindergartens for his grandchildren? How will you explain that you do not vote for the reduction in the tax rate of natural persons from 22% to 20% and from 29% to 26%? How will you explain to farmers why you do not vote for the reduction of VAT on agricultural supplies from 24% to 13% and, in fact, from 1 July 2017? Finally, are the measures more disturbing or are the countermeasures more disturbing? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be out in ten seconds. The economic crisis, ladies and gentlemen, has opened up many wounds to citizens, to the economy, to the sovereignty of the country. The people responsible for them would be better to enter into the public dialogue with modesty and with greater enthusiasm in their assessment of what this government can achieve. Repulsive disapprovals lead to irrationality. In August 2018, we will be here to assess the situation. I hope then that you are more sober and in 2019 we will all be judged by the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u143	Mr. Jellonis, Member of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, unfortunately for you the time reveals and history is circled and avenged today. You have been dominated all this time of the Memorandum Crisis without any moral barrier to the most appalling and dangerous populism. What are we talking about here today? We are discussing the fourth Memorandum - not necessary - the second one voted for by SYRIZA - ANEL in two years' time. This is your second memorandum, and even with signatures from them - and all of you - which you have fought for an antimonetary struggle to understand power. I do not need to remind you of the words and how you have been doomed. It is, in fact, a memorandum without any funding. The uncovering took place in this Chamber by the forty-seven representatives of the social institutions with designations - I will say the ruthless characterizations - such as "excitement", "feelings", "discovering everything", "kissed and deceived the Greek people". The truth is, ladies and gentlemen, that you are calling on to vote on a further memorandum and, without any substantial legitimacy, because the period of application goes far beyond your parliamentary term. May I remind you here what the Prime Minister said in January that the prerogative is foreign to our Constitution, to our democracy, to the European acquis? However, it seems that you are not ashamed to keep announcing yourself and confessing that you are constantly deceiving, except now that you are being deceived from your side. If you have understood it, gentlemen, today you are voting for 4,9 billion to the detriment of the Greek people. You are voting for measures of 2.6 billion for pension cuts, 2.9 billion for wages and 400 million for social benefits cuts. In short, you are povertying all the Greek people, whose overwhelming majority give them a struggle for stressful survival. We're going to the debt you've done since yesterday's flag. From 'I do not apply the measures if the debt issue is not resolved', we went to the second paragraph of the explanatory statement, which states: 'These provisions are adopted to start the debate on the definition of medium-term debt measures'. Why didn't you set a debt clause, that if there are no brave arrangements, the measures will not be passed? This is no longer a deal. We are talking about an unconditional tradition, where you are now making the poverty regime. The agreement is the result of the multiple and successive delays in the closure of the evaluation, so that society can take advantage of the bill and the Members of Parliament's engravings that you are going to vote on. However, let us see what you bring and which will be implemented rain - snow, gentlemen of the co-government: a reduction to 1.3 million pensioners, even those under-retired in the pension scheme of IKA of EUR 460. We have a reduction of 18% in main and supplementary pensions and not just because we have a cut in public family allowances and a wife's allowance for private pensioners, there is no deafness and a reduction of 20-22%. We have a drastic reduction in duty at EUR 5,600, with particularly adverse consequences for all workers, free traders, farmers, scientists and pensioners, who lose a pension - instead of a tenth-third, they lose the twelfth - and one wage for the workers. As of 2019, insurance contributions to more than one million insured persons have been increased. We have cuts in beneficiaries of social benefits, heating benefits, reductions in the tax exemptions of lower incomes, even from unemployment and poverty benefits. From the 'no house in the hands of a banker', the electronic auctions are now released three times a week for 12 hours each day and we are now going to 'no house in the hands of a owner'! As for Sunday, we don't have to say anything. She's going too! You constantly call for VAT reductions from 24% to 13% for agricultural supplies. Ladies and gentlemen, you must at last admit that you often legislate and do not know what you are doing. You legislated in 2015. Bring it back where you had it! In terms of work, you are actually implementing the greatest fantasy of the International Monetary Fund and of employers. This is probably another delusion of yours. We're practically freed from team redundancies. Re-establish the anachronistic institution of the employers' compensation abolished by Law 1264/1982 and bring Article 656 of the Civil Code to the fore, which was inappropriate. You agreed on the next evaluation of the programme, in the autumn, to make the one-off strike. The cherry on the cake comes with the agreement to suspend until August 2018 - for this reason - the arrangements for collective labour contracts. Why don't you bring them back, after it was provided for in Article 37 of Law 4024/2011, where it ended up to 31-12/2015 and you are committed to reintroducing it in August 2018? You just have no commitment and no one believes you. With regard to the many-advertised countermeasures of coexistence - to get together - it is a political demagogic fraud. It's a wish vote. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The House is actually legislating and not in a hypothetical future, where everyone realises that there will never be. In fact, in accordance with Article 15, the countermeasures are entrusted exclusively to the IMF and the European Commission. You who asked in November for the IMF to come back to the IMF, today you are giving him the commission and then the programme for the application of the countermeasures, Minister. Try once again to mock the Greek people, because countermeasures are the "maker's" in the fourth memorandum. To conclude, I would like to say that your big words have now proved to be "fucking" checks and citizens are crushed daily, frustrated, scared, with a deep sense of losing their pride and dignity. They were made up of the false expectations and the smuggling of hope you have sold them all these years. The Democratic Reconciliation cannot vote for this agreement, a defeated surrender agreement. He cannot vote for an agreement that again sows in your knowledge illusions to the Greek people and reaps, but he certainly reaps with your carelessness and inadequacy, unjust and excessively burdening Greek citizens. No consensus on a government that knew the contents of the word 'immunism', would have resigned! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty-seven students and students and two educational attendants from the 2nd Tripolis Municipal School. The House welcomes you guys. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We shall proceed with the next speaker, Mr Thebes of SYRIZA. Here, Mr. Thebes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, what is the political appeal of today's debate and the vote to be followed? Is the adoption of measures and countermeasures to close the second assessment and exit the country from the comitology and memoranda? Sure, yeah. But this is the instrument, the tool for normality and growth. What is being discussed, however, seems and is being judged today is whether the country is opening the way for another path by democratisation, development, social control, welfare, transparency and the hitting of the conflict, that is, a complete rejection of the political system that has so far been governed and led the country to bankruptcy. The New Democracy and the PASOK, who, in wearing the probe of the antimony, are swinging the finger and trying to convince the Greek people that the same people who went bankrupt, can also save him. It's hard to do. This is why, in particular, the New Democracy has committed itself to political lies, distortions, such as the allegedly 5.5% rather than a 3.5% surplus for the implementation of the countermeasures. It seems that for the New Democracy, it is true that 'if the numbers do not come up with us, then they are alas in numbers'. In simple terms, the political system, which the Greek people have sent twice to the headquarters of Anti-Population, now says: "Let both the debt regulation and the debt regulation be well placed to us for the good of the left and their paratroopers and lose the business, the mists, the ruffles, our media." Your debt is following you. The 100 billion of arms, the 20 billion of the Olympic Games, the 85 billion pharmacopoeia, the 400 million of your parties, loan and unscrupulously, the 1 billion debts in your friendly media, are paid today by the Greek people who do not forget, because they live every day the weight and misery of the 65 billion with which you have spent it with the first and second memorandums. In these days of the bill's vote they overcame the lie, hypocrisy and empathy, because the "tabacier" is your power. Indeed, unrepentant of your policies, you want to rule in the same anti-grassy and disastrous way for our country. That explains the depreciation of the positive countermeasures not only for communication reasons, but for why you really do not want them, because they are outside your political will and practice. In this House, of course, you may call the countermeasures as a "vessel" of the measures. But you must explain to the low-wage and low-pension society why you say 'no' to reducing taxation from 22% to 20% for incomes of up to 20 000 euros. Explain why you say 'no' to the abolition of the solidarity levy for incomes up to EUR 30 000, because you say 'no' to the reduction of HPAI, because you say 'no' to the rental subsidy of more than 100 euros a month, for six hundred thousand low wages, because you say 'no' to the zero contribution to medicines for incomes below EUR 700, which is about 80% of the insured. The Qualifying Opposition, in its attempt to degrade the government's efforts, reiterates the phrase that the result of the second evaluation is a fourth memorandum without funding. This phrase is important because it defines itself. It is precisely because there is no funding, that the outward horizon is apparent from the comitology. It is precisely the fact that we will not be in debt that will allow the country to come out of the comitology and the deadlocks. But, ladies and gentlemen, political hypocrisy is work. The government's struggle not to pass the collective redundancies, the reintroduction of collective bargaining and sectoral conventions, which will be a fact since 21 August 2018, had been characterised by Mr Mitsotakis' party as "left idealism". Today they are crying and lying about the lost price of labour rights. In vain, though. Workers don't forget that Mr. Mitsotakis fired two and a half thousand teachers in one night, school guards, cleaners. It is one of the important reasons why it will remain in the consciousness of the people as ideal for the system and unworthy of the candidate country. It has been heard many times that none of the forty-seven bodies in the hearing did say a good word about the bill. Really, in the first and second memorials you never invited them, the agencies opened champagne? But that doesn't matter. It is important that the members of the bodies and thousands of citizens have told you twice as much 'no' in elections as incompetent and dangerous and - unfortunately for you - there is not even an honest life even today. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, these days a difficult, but very important, cycle is closed, leaving the nostalgics of the "left parenthesis". Friday begins for us the hardest. We're a living part of society. Along with the workers and youth, we'll get out of the memorials and the comitology. Only the workers and youth are the ones who can and must judge us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u147	Mrs Kefalidou, Member of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will turn you back a little bit: First Memorandum, 2010. All of us, civilians and politicians, paralyzed by the violent landing in a harsh reality, shattered and awkward in front of the vacuum left by the 'fusk' of the chronic illusions that broke, were trying to demarcate the consequences and save what was saved. We were wondering if there's any worse than what we've been living for. SYRIZA then called in a rebellion. Where would we imagine what was waiting for us? It's been a long time since. Not pleasantly, not easily, not without rage, we understood the need to limit our lifestyle and we adapted. The only hope was that our sacrifices will ensure a better future for us, our children and the country. This hope, you gentlemen of the government, as a wake-up airplanes, saw it as the great opportunity for your so-called "left" to refresh. This hope, along with the fatigue of the world, you took it and made it a flag of indignation at first, a symbol of pride then, a convenient armchair of authority later, to end up today, unfortunately, spongy. That's what you did. To date, to describe what we were living for, we said we were in a time of crisis. From today we are living another era, a new era that you have achieved on your own in two years. That great decline. The second evaluation of the program 2015-2018 with brand name SYRIZA - ANEL succeeded where all other governments failed. He managed to give the citizen certain, calm, uncertainties and struggles for tomorrow. You have officially ensured our poverty by 2021 and by anyone who can bear it. Thousands of pages of application law, the result of your negotiating charity and your unresolved policy, are a permanent programme of tolerance. Unfortunately, this is the state's answer to the long and bloody sacrifices of the Greeks. This is after two and a half years of governance, with tsamboukas and proud politics on the mornings, acrobatics and pirates in Hilton on the afternoon and a little revolution in Koumoundourou on weekends. And well, we've never trusted you, I understand. But the people who voted for you, who trusted you, who have touched their hopes on you, are you not ashamed of them at all? In the new children, the young scientists who are modern immigrants, what will you answer them? That since you can't nominate them, will you share lunch with the piles, help their children at the children's stations and give them supermarque coupons as countermeasures for their poverty? Your additional measures, as you kindly want to name the Leonteion agreement you signed, dismantle the Greek family, dismantle the Greek society and you know it. But you whistle in your chairs, because you also know that when the bill comes, you will be elsewhere. You said to Genoa that 'not even an additional euro will not be legislated'. Today you bring EUR 5 billion to Parliament, an inappropriate, anti-developmental, long-term Memorandum number four, with unbearable primary surpluses for many years, the prerogative of measures, reduction of pensions, reduction of tax-free allowances, a new increase in insurance contributions for about one and a half million self-employed, e-inhabited first-resident electronic auctions where the owner will learn it last, the country returns and remain in recession, an agreement without a solution to the debt, on burdensome terms for the country and its people. Your bill - you're right - solves the issue once and for all. It puts Greece in a permanent comitology and takes off the backbone of the country that is the middle class. Such violent adjustment of income, with heavy taxation and the destruction of productive classes and at the same time such a courage of power, has no precedent. After a year of negotiation, which should have been completed since March 2016, Mr. Tsipras, having dissolved everything in the country, managed to secure the mandate of his government. At the same time, with the prerogative of unfavourable measures, she dug a deep pit for the next and closed a rebellion of tomorrow's opposition defender and defender of the poor citizens she created. And when the time comes, he fantasizes himself to command rebellion in squares and parks. The winner again and a tropeid sitting in the chair of Maximos, offering hope to the then impoverished citizens, who care to be many, too many, so many that he dreams of his self-responsibility. But do not deceive yourself. Mr. Tsipras will remain in history as his fine and fatal Prime Minister 'yes'. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, to deliver your country's keys and to be proud of it does not simply make you selfish. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need some time, Mr. President. To insist on persuading that the sale is a national option goes beyond my logic and I believe the logic of the world. The place needs a change of policy and you can't do that. You know that, and that is why you are losing your temper, Mrs Fotio, and I must remind you that you have abolished all the structures for dealing with poverty. From February 25, 2017, social grocery stores and pharmacies are in the air. Since November 2016, there are over a thousand employees in these structures, until you fired them. You said that you were dismantling the state and that's the only truth. From today on, then, you are not the elected representatives of the executive. You are the executive body that delivers Greece's keys to the IMF and the European Commission, in exchange for a little extra political time. And you, ladies and gentlemen, of SYRIZA and ANEL, are unfortunately the faithful ‘confidential’ to this crime. Remember, when you look into the eyes, not the citizens who voted for you, because they are tormented by theories of society's transformation. Remember, when you look at your own people and find the courage to tell them about the difficult decision you make today about their future in this country. Mutate them into permanent vomits! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u150	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u151	Please, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u152	I would like to remind Parliament throughout that poverty structures were the previous NSRP. Only sixty six municipalities across the country had poverty structures. Today, in the new ESDP, we in two hundred sixty municipalities have done poverty structures. Two...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u153	Who had negotiated the ESRB?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u154	Please, Mr. Constantinople.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u155	When we received in 2015 you did not plan the new NRP. We therefore had to extend for two years with a total of 20 million people from the budget, so that people and workers would not suffer, but also the beneficiaries of what you had prepared them for, because you had no successor situation. Today - I have said it repeatedly - the money is secured and the people who worked will be paid. Secondly, we have depopulated with too many molecules all the former workers to join. While they were the previous workers, all seven hundred, today we have created a thousand five hundred jobs, and yet we have much more space to protect and appoint. Today, then, month after month and municipality in the municipality, they are appointed according to ICP procedures and not as you have hired them through NGOs, people in all these poverty structures, etc., in the public sector.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u156	Look who's talking about NGOs. It's a disgrace. There isn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u157	I think it's wrong, my colleague. Excuse me, but they're advising you wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u158	Are you talking about NGOs?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u159	The interactive debate is not allowed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u160	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u161	To what's the staff, Mrs. Kefalidou? The Rules of Procedure do not provide for an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u162	Mr President, I would like to table a document certifying what I have told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u163	Here, on personal grounds you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u164	Mrs Fotio here tells us - because many words are poverty - that the new system still does not work. I would like to ask her directly: are these people or are they not fired?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u165	No, there's no interactive conversation. The interactive debate is not anticipated.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u166	That is why you are compelled to enter the process and tell us that soon, in May, you will re-enter them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u167	That's not what I said! I want to reply, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u168	Mrs Papanatsiou, State Secretary for Finance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, since the first day the Left Government has fought a double battle, internally against a situation of social and economic disaster, what the New Democracy and the PASOK have delivered, and abroad against those who have insisted on a disastrous European austerity for the peoples of Europe. We conflicted and defended the right of Greek society. The result was the July 2015 agreement, an agreement that is, of course, far from what we would like, but sets out the conditions for leaving the country from the comitology and the memoranda in 2018. You're talking about a fourth memorandum. There is no fourth Memorandum. If we were to add to your memorials your evaluations and austerity measures that accompanied it, we would lose count, colleagues and colleagues of the New Democracy and PASOK. Today we are discussing the outcome of the second assessment of this agreement. It is an evaluation that brings measures and countermeasures, with zero budgetary effect. Fellow colleagues and colleagues of the New Democracy and PASOK, your memorials only had austerity measures and the evaluations in your memorials also only had austerity measures. The attitude of the New Democracy and PASOK in this debate is indeed very impressive. You have been malicious in this country for decades. You have widened inequalities and brought growth without jobs. Know that even in the years of the bubble, in the so-called 'economic success and development', most of the citizens went through hard. Instead of giving jobs and reasonable fees, you shared loans and bonded the world with the loans. You abolished workers' rights. You have brought the elastic working relationships, the 'blocks', part-time work. You called the "success" banks' stock exchanges and bonuses that were only for a few, and then, when your model collapsed, when your foreign allies left you, after you were tied up with the misery, you again put to pay the popular mattresses, the weakest citizens. Two years now, you ask us every time to sign what they give us, to finish it, and you blame us for delays. But we are negotiating - and even hard - and we are now bringing the first agreement that has measures and countermeasures. We are talking about development measures that are fully balanced by austerity measures, so the financial effect is zero. Your medium-term plan predicted a primary surplus of 4.1% by 2031. And now you come with courage and say what you said in this Chamber. In fact, the agreement with the institutions contains tax measures which we regard as unnecessary, measures which we feel are not correct, but for which the International Monetary Fund was unsettled. We insisted on the correctness of our own positions. We consider these measures to be unnecessary, because the far overrun of the revenue recorded in 2016 and continuing this year gives rise to the financial forecasts of our own in contrast to those of the fund. We are the result of this because we are not wasting the money on Greek citizens. We put the class in the crap you left. However, the persistence of some countries to remain the International Monetary Fund in the Greek programme made its place in the negotiation very strong. And the attitude of the Opposition was on this line: to close matters in a hurry and just retreat me. But we insisted on our positions too. And what we have achieved is extremely important: to accept a package of positive measures - the countermeasures - which completely neutralise the negative impact of measures on the development result. The package is therefore budgetaryly neutral. And that was our condition, to accept what the other side was asking for. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] I'm gonna need some time, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u170	How much time do you want, Mrs. Papanachius?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u171	At least three minutes. In 2018, the forecasts for the macroeconomic and budgetary sizes of 2019 and 2020 will be made and we will submit a budget that gives a primary surplus of 3.5%. This budget will also have to include countermeasures. Already, since 2016, the primary surplus that took place exceeds the target of 2019 and 2020. Therefore, the countermeasures will be fully implemented. You will be disappointed, ladies and gentlemen, that you are more pessimistic than the International Monetary Fund, which you see everywhere as a disaster. The basic tax measure with negative consequences for the citizens, which is contrary to our own strategy, is a reduction in the tax on wage earners, pensioners and farmers. The reduction will take place in 2020 and will be cleared in the tax statements of 2021. You have courage, contributors and colleagues of the New Democracy and PASOK, to speak of duty-free. When and how did the tax for professionals and farmers be lost? In 2013, the New Democracy - PASOK, Samaras and Venizelos. In order to reduce by 10 percentage points the maximum rate for very high incomes has been lost. There is a memory in this country, ladies and gentlemen. With the tax system that we brought last year, even with the combination of measures and countermeasures, which will apply from 2020, professionals with an income of up to EUR 20,000 will pay less tax than they paid for the New Democracy - PASOK system. And these are at least 80% of the total. We have included in the countermeasure the reduction of the minimum tax rate from 22% to 20% for incomes of up to EUR 20,000 and the reduction of the special solidarity levy across all tiers. The solidarity contribution is now being abolished for incomes of up to EUR 30,000. I must remind you that we have brought the incomes of the self-employed on the scale of employees and pensioners. This means that self-employed people with the lowest incomes have already seen a reduction in the tax rate by four percentage points from 26% to 22%. With the first countermeasure, the total reduction reaches six percentage points for them. In legal persons we reduce the rate of taxation from 29% to 26%. We expect companies and, in particular, large companies to return this measure to society with investment and jobs. Finally, we reduce HISPIA for small and medium-sized property. And this is the second time we've done this. To those responsible for ENVIRONMENT to EUR 700, there will be a 30% reduction with a ceiling of EUR 70. For vulnerable social groups, the reduction shall be granted to those in charge of ENPIs up to EUR 1,400. Based on the previous year's figures, the measure concerns 84% of the first-class taxpayers and almost 100% of the second. I don't have any more time. I would like to say by closing that I believe that despite unequal relations, we have negotiated with stubbornness and consistency in our development concept and class position. We believe that the final result justifies us. The overall budgetary effect is neutral and the countermeasures manage to restore to a great extent the losses caused by the measures. Our strategic targeting is reflected in all positive measures. Our identity lies within the positive measures of alleviating and increasing social protection and the rights of the world of work. Our objective remains the overall change in the policy mix. This is reflected in the agreement we have brought. So this is our strategic targeting of counter-population. That's what she's afraid of. That's our difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u172	In accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents, the Members speak for seven minutes. They're confined to six. Undersecretaries speak five minutes. Mrs Papanatsiou, State Secretary for the Legislative Decree, derogating from this, spoke above. The ministers speak ten minutes. I would ask that we respect all the time, because otherwise the number of speakers will be reduced. It is not right to extend one's time and not to speak to one's or a number of MPs. Mrs Anna Karamanlis, Member of the New Democracy, please take the floor. If it's possible she's in her time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Mr President. We have listened with interest to what the State Secretary said. Since they're all so well, why yesterday were the forty-seven players in the bars? And why yesterday and today are everyone out on the streets? I guess you're out of reality. Ladies and gentlemen, it's time for the bill. The time has come when all Greek citizens will understand in the most savage and barbaric way how much it costs the country and the government's own incomplete tactics in the matter of evaluation. How much is the work of supposedly tough negotiation and of course theatrical consumption plays. This bill just shows the cost of the incompetence and expulsion of this government. A government that has entangled the country in immorality, has nullified its credibility and condemned society to misery and pessimism. ELSTAT’s recent data showed a recession of 0.5% for the first quarter of 2017, with Greece being an acknowledgment and a poor relative in a Europe that shows a marked growth rate as a whole. Because while SYRIZA and ANEL colleagues were presenting the resistance, Europe was moving forward. While the other countries were overcoming the crisis by promoting reforms, the government preferred party arrangements. The Prime Minister's magnificence for the development he comes, I imagine. He must have lost his way. But you will tell me that this is where he assured us last January that the agreement will be closed without a single euro. And we're dizzy to count billions. Painful measures - widely signed. He had to spend so many months of uncertainty and anxiety to drag us into a new memorandum, the second of his term of office. Impressive performance for a Prime Minister who would tear it all up with a law and an article. But all that you will tell me is long memories and is part of the era of delusion. All you have had left from that time is of course the dances in the Constitution and in the Greek society the sense of deception. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, you are preparing to vote on a memorandum with extremely burdensome conditions which are binding on the country for the next few years, which has been kept under surveillance without financing. A Memorandum which ultimately serves a single purpose: the stay of this government in power. Legislation on horizontal cuts in main and supplementary pensions by reducing personal differences, leading to a large proportion of pensioners in extermination. It has not yet dried well - well ink from the famous letters of Katrugalo to pensioners, when it assured that there will be no new reductions, but increases that will go hand in hand with growth. Today you come and deprive two or three pensions of every pensioner. You guys who sold them false hopes for a thirteenth pension. Move to a reduction in duty in 1/3, from 8,600 euros to 5,681 euros. Remove from each employee about one wage. So it hits pluralism, the socially sensitive Left, with measures that load the weaker Greeks, the low pensioners, the low-wages, and afflicting low incomes that have not paid tax at all and are now driven to impoverishment, creating new armies of poor citizens and leveling the middle class. You do the same with special wages. You are once again targeting the members of the Armed Forces and the Security Bodies, who have been implicated by the Government for the implementation of the decision of the Council. on retrospectives, they see new reductions in their earnings. This is the respect you show to people who daily fight with crime, playing the crowns of letters and those who care and guarantee the security of our country. At the same time, you become freelance professionals with a new increase in insurance contributions. You change with Article 58 the basis for calculating contributions, considering income and the insurance contributions already paid. And of course it does not sweat your ears from characterising these provisions as unconstitutional, you who are committed to being every word of the Constitution and you have destroyed the record in laws that are considered unconstitutional. You are also abolishing a number of social benefits. We have heard Mrs Fotio with an excess of presumptuousness, but a lack of action. Let us remind her of the abolition of the CSCE, the abolition of the poverty allowance, and I will refer to the reduction of the heating allowance, where the budget in question is cut by 50%, which means fewer beneficiaries and less financial support for those who ultimately receive it. From 1-1-2018 the cost for the heating allowance will be 58m euros. I would remind you that the New Democracy Government in 2014 gave EUR 210 million to a heating allowance. Then, of course, some with an excess of hypocrisy and populism, charged the government with deaths of the cheeks. Today they swallow all measures unreservedly and vote with both hands, with no barrier and no suspensions. You will tell me that they have also found the alibi, the fantastic wrapping-up of measures, the infamous countermeasures that are nothing more than another deception of Syrian inspiration. Because the government and the Prime Minister take from the pockets of Greek money and sell them promises, if any. In order to implement the countermeasures, the country should achieve high surpluses on a stable basis. What country can today achieve extra-real surpluses? How's Tsipras gonna make it? In his friendly practice he will put further taxes and, in addition to Article 15 of the bill, take any positive measures that require an assessment of the country's financial situation by the institutions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to see the truth in the face. Once again you gave it all and you didn't get anything. You are voting for everything you have denounced and instead of red lines you have thrown white towel and done it from the beginning. What you have cooked was the way you will politically serve this agreement - looting, but if you think you can keep throwing ashes in the eyes of society, you are vain. The reality is a nightmare for the citizens, but it is at the same time cruel and relentless for you. And the reality is that you dragged the country into two unpleasant memos and made the Greeks poorer. This will be followed and persecuted by you, until of course you release the country from the suffering of your government service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Mrs Karamanlis. Mr Tasulas, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor. Please, Mr Tasoula, for respect for time because sixty-eight Members have been written and you are in number eighty-two.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u175	By listening to the majority, as they used to say, I wonder what interpretation of these two which I give to the wording of their tonight is preferable: the interpretation that they are lying in their knowledge or the interpretation that they believe what they say? What's more disappointing than that? I conclude that they believe what they say and I conclude that this is more disappointing than lying. You're worse than liars. So you're delivered in an incredible paradox that fuels your enthusiasm. At a time when this enthusiasm is manifested, at the same time you are imposing measures close to the 5 billion to the Greek people, increasing the amount you have finally imposed on 14.2 billion. You raise a million three hundred thousand young taxpayers by subtracting the tax to 5,500 euros. You raise a million four hundred thousands of workers, professionals, farmers, in the new way of starting up insurance contributions. And all you say is with great enthusiasm and abundant dissatisfied with the old regime, thus professing that we are obviously dealing with a new regime, whereas in fact, to say the figs - figs and the boat - vessels, neither did you succeed, nor was it an old one, nor an anti-democratic one, because it was consistently approved on a repeated basis by the wise Greek people. And of course, I cannot understand that the people are right only when they vote for you. Evidently, the Greek people, dominating the Constitution, were right, and when in repeated and enthusiastic terms and at monstrous rates, which are not compared to yours, voted for those who are today being condemned. To explain to us and to end this story, Greece was a country that, after the relocation, inspired democracy. She injected her for good and strongly injected her. It did not, however, give a firm orientation towards a European way of economic development, social development. Because populism, statism, the client system, all of this together, which none of us could resist - none of us! - they played their part and took their heads and led the country where they led it. The left over these years may not have been a parliamentary majority, it was an ideological majority. You were the country's ideological front, while you were the country's electoral retardation. Now that you have taken responsibility, you represent the innocent of the blood, while when the benefits from the "old regime" were granted, the benefits that you are today underwent and blamed, you always characterized all these benefits, because you had entered into a sad order, one behind the other, who would have been the leader of the Greek people. And instead of taking over your responsibilities, as we took on after the country's actual bankruptcy, you continue to ignore your responsibilities, sow discord, talk about establishments. Which one? Where did you see the establishments? So would you easily get out of business with the establishments if they were there? There was nothing in Transmolitanism, except a regime of fameless, undisputed democracy, which has never been able to develop into normality. And you know what else? The sunshine of the country after 2010, a little - very much, reality has taken on board. And as they say, where the persuasion fails, the reality comes to play the role of persuasion. I don't have the illusion that some people today will see the numbers, see the bill and change their minds. No, I don't think so. Nor do I have the opinion that people are being misled. The people are not being misled. He knows what he votes for and takes responsibility for his vote. [[At this point he hits a warning bell at the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member]] The theory of the misled people is abusive to the people. To sum up the times that the people are thought to be misled and tell me, if you have courage, what a conclusion you will draw on this people you consider to be misled. So the people voted for you and took up their responsibilities, as they did when they voted for us. What will happen is that you will break your face - and the country together, but this is how it happens in democracies - impacting on reality. And your ambition and your confidence that the countermeasures are surely, because you have achieved the great surplus in 2016, and this takes precedence that you will achieve the surplus and the years to come, are shattered by the phobia you have for the surplus you are calling for, much more greedier, for the current year. So much you do not believe in the 1.75% of the 2017 surplus, which you do not dare to vote on New Democracy's proposal to distribute EUR 800 million. And since, in our four proposals, you chose only one, Mr Vice-President of the New Democracy, Mr Hatzidakis, I am not taking part in breakfast coffee, but you should have proposed eight meters to vote for at least two. If they vote one in four, we should have proposed eight so that at least they would have voted two, maybe twelve to vote three. We should know about it next time. As far as the Prime Minister is concerned, who is finally wearing a tie, because the news that comes is so good that they are unbelievable, I would like to remind him of an impressive poem in ties. He's talking about a young man working in a barium, not a prime minister, but it's a match. "The evening, as the shop was closed, if nothing were to want very, no crabs somewhat accurate, no crabs for Sunday or a window if he had seen and carved a nice shirt of mabbs, his body for a tall or two would sell." You didn't sell for one or two tumors your body. You sell your views, your commitments, your promises, for two, three, four, five, six months of power. "Days of 1909" is the poem, days of 2017 are your responsibilities!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u176	Don't eat the time with the ties. Mr Bagionas, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor. Please keep your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u177	For the time being, I would also speak, Mr President. There are rules, because there are exceptions. I didn't say they should be offended, but the rule is not to keep the time. It's disrespectful to everyone, and Ministers and colleagues. That's the real truth. The last ones always pay for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u178	There are no exceptions. Come on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u179	Ladies and gentlemen, we are witnessing the "cross" of the Greek pensioner, with cuts in personal differences and family provision. They receive one or three pensions from their beneficiaries. People who worked for an entire life, when it was time to refresh the fruits of their labor, find that what they fought for is evaporated by a government decision, and indeed by a later date, from 2019. It is so great that the hypocrisy of this government, which only knows, in my view, is to share poverty, not to produce wealth. With the signature of the first and second Memorandum, you were on the streets, denounced, made fire reasons and threatened with liability, in order to reach your own Memorandums, the third and fourth, where the adjustment - by reducing personal differences, the reduction of the pensions of the Katrugalos Act and the increases in contributions - brings the bill of 10 billion euros. How much was the adjustment to the first and second Memorandums? It was 3.5 billion and 3.9 billion, respectively. That's the reality. The numbers always speak for themselves and no one can deny them. Dearest tactics by the Prime Minister, however, are disorientation. Everything is used. You are still getting to adopt the wrong views in neural areas of the state, so that you can hide the colpo grosso, the robbery, that is, the retired, and not just the retired. The Prime Minister spoke days ago about the development of two hundred and thirty-nine primary health care centres over a decade - buildings and other buildings! - when what we have is far enough. Do you know what is happening to health today, Prime Minister? What does health need today in Greece? Luckily, the Minister of Health is here. I'll let you know and take them to the Prime Minister. Your ministers are completely state-of-the-art. Whatever's private, it's rejected. 30% of health is private. I will also ask the Minister present: Do you accept today that they will receive a hundred and twenty of the forty hospitals throughout the country every day with the inexistent system of newspapers? If you tell me a part of the world that this system has achieved, I should like to adopt it. It is not possible today to have health centers, take doctors from health centers to inform all provincial hospitals. He needs personal. From that point on, changes are needed. In the last committee, Minister, I stressed the need for a pilot project. I even named Crete, because its geographical distribution is such that it simulates many things from many aspects to all of Greece. It has a population of about six hundred thousand. There are, however, months in which two million to two and a half million or more will go if tourism rises. How many hospitals do they need? In my view, a hospital arrives for a population of five hundred or six hundred thousand. That's the international standard. However, since the population is growing, we should also have a back-up in Chania and Heraklion. This program will be launched by pilots from the EAW. The EMCDDA operated thirty or thirty two years ago. But it didn't develop. Why, he didn't grow? The first main reason is that there were no roads. We said we'd finish the Ennaia Road in 2000. And we finished it in 2015. The road network has developed. So if we take Crete as an example, will we see how many ambulance crews are needed - ten, twelve, fifteen? - to be able to operate the EMCDDA in a maximum of half an hour, so that the ambulance can go to the place of the accident, where there is a need. That's the real truth. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'd like to expand further, but I want to respect time. The hospital beds - and I'm going to hang up with this - are much more than they need. And we hear that the hospital in any hospital, a periphery, costs 260 euros a day without wage and insurance costs, of which 420 euros are heated. That's the reality. Is that the health you're offering? Are you happy? Oh, no. So reorganise health centers, set costs. There must be no hospital unit without oxygen production. There must be energy shields everywhere and renewable energy sources. To close, Mr President, to see the needs of the future, one must not look back at the needs of the past. For the revolution of reasoning and virtuousness, a change of attitude is needed. And I would like to present to the House an interview published in the newspaper "Kathemerini", where a famous professor, Mr. Efichos Vorides, says: "You only go to the doctor on a stretcher." That's what he says. It'll be useful to a lot of people.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u180	The President has the floor for ten minutes, Mr Venizelos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u181	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of what is happening here today. The parliamentary majority of SYRIZA - ANLL this evening is invited to vote on two new memorandums, the 3+ Memorandum with measures for the period until July 2018 and the 4 Memorandum for the period up to 2021, concerning the next Parliament and the next government in each case. These do not include debt measures that I hope will be granted. They have been promising and data since 2012. Then we were given no additional measures, one single one. Now we will be gradually given measures. The House therefore votes in principle and a lasting memorandum after the fourth memorandum, linked to the gradual granting of parametric changes to the debt. I am not going to speak, ladies and gentlemen, about political disdain and ideological eligence. SYRIZA has become valuable and politically liquid. It's not in a solid state. Involves the shape of the container in which it enters each time. Previous governments, good or bad, had a solid situation. They may have had blows, scratches, amputations, rounds or corners, but they were solid. We are now talking about the policy of fluids. I will not speak of colossal political fraud at the expense of the Greek people. I will ask, however, why are you doing this at the expense of the country and why are you doing so on a repeated basis with adolescence? Once was the crime first half of 2015, with Tsipras - Varoufakis manipulations. The second time was in 2016, with the extension of the first review that ended at the Eurogroup of May 2016, which told you that there is no nominal debt haircut, there is the supplement to the accursed PSI - OSI 2012. Pilgrims! The third time is now with the prolongation of the supposed negotiation of the second assessment. Are you aware of the damage you have caused and your responsibility? You have conscientiously caused a secondary crisis in the economy, on the previous basic crisis, which was going to go ahead in December 2014. And because some things have gained emblematic value in May 2015, when all the terror of the hope of the radical left was torn apart, on a television show with Mr. Hatzinikolaou at the station he was working at that time, I showed the e-mail Hardouvelis and I said it would be a playground in relation to the measures that this government will vote on. The lost playground of e-mail Hardouvelis, I present it again today in the Greek Parliament. [[At this point, the Member, Evangelos Venizelos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Your promise was, ladies and gentlemen, that the memorial tombs are shaping, unilateral deletion of the shameful debt and the drastic reduction in the intended primary surplus, which you considered to be harmful to the economy. Legend in growth. However, a promise was the tough negotiation with unscrupulous red lines. What are you doing? Do you realize what you are doing and how you negotiated? You have come to impose additional budgetary austerity measures of 14.2 billion. And the pension cuts you are making today, you think they are 2.8 billion? Unfortunately, it's not 2.8 billion. In this respect, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty. So 6.5 billion is the explicit legislative burden. But that's not all. In a very interesting analysis by the analyst George Hirgopoulos at "Protagon" explains why there is a hidden pension cut with today's bill of 3.3 billion, because the provision of the "Katrugalos" law that provides for an increase of pensions equal to half of GDP growth and half of inflation since 2018 is abolished. This is now being abolished, and that means that 3.3 billion that pensioners were expecting as a dividend for growth, as a social dividend from what the country expects, will not take. And this is the 'grey' sum of 3.5 billion unspecified supposedly countermeasures in the form of tax cuts that will be made at some point, because these will not be given to pensioners. I am making this analysis, which is of great interest. [[At this point, Member Evangelos Venizelos presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And this, because we had said since 2012 that from the primary surplus a part of it would share as a social dividend. And you swayed it, humiliated it, humiliated it, said it was crumbs. Now we are not talking about an economy in recession, about an economy with a primary deficit of 20 billion, 10% of GDP primary deficit, we are not talking about cuts in conditions 2010, 2011, 2012, but we are talking about an economy that is supposed to rise, going upwards. What's the expectation for the retired person? None! Total pension cuts voted by SYRIZA Government - ANEL 9.8 billion! What negotiation do you make? For the debt? Wait for the news from Mr. Trump, Mr. McCrone, from G7 and, ultimately, from Mrs. Merkel and Mr. Shoeble. There's nothing the Greek Government suggests. He's not asking for anything. Why is Mr. Tsipras excited? For primary surpluses? From where they were harmful to the economy and were aimed at reducing them, you have now joined the logic of 'the more better', because, although under conditions of recession in 2016, we managed to have a surplus of 4.2% instead of 0.5%. Watch out. Tell me, simply thinking, how a government can negotiate that tells creditors that all she cares is two things: to earn political time, to transfer the hardest in time placed in the mandate of the next government - so, "Help me..." he tells the lenders "... to load them on the next" - and, second, I have no claim. Put on what you want, high primary surplus, not 3.5%, not 4.5%, but 5.5% regardless of growth rate - which we have never accepted under the worst conditions for the country's economy - as long as there is the myth of so-called countermeasures. How can you negotiate when you go and give it all away by preliminarily pleading to help you make political tricks? This is the so-called negotiation. The country is becoming political, but also economic. We have both primary surpluses of overtaxation, not from the revenue side, but from that of expenditure, and of course not from combating tax evasion or smuggling. And there is no talk of the so-called 'cyclically adapted primary surplus', i.e. of the primary surplus, taking into account the recession and the unemployment rate. Greece anyway shows the largest in the world at the moment cyclically adjusted surplus, even if it was the primary surplus at the normal level of 0.5%, as agreed. There are no countermeasures. There are no legal provisions, firstly because the provisions in question do not exist, they are expressly contrary not only to Articles 78(4) but also to Article 43 of the Constitution on legislative powers. There is, however, the cutter, which can function at any time. And in any case, what is the logic of the countermeasures? That I will strangle the economy, tax everything that moves and does not move, as long as it has an elementary status and redistribute misery with subsidised policies. There is also arithmetic of illusions: Measures of 4,9 billion and 7.5 billion countermeasures, of which 3.5 billion are these undetermined, undetermined taxes, which are the contribution of pensioners who lose the expected increase over the coming years. And if that is the case, as has been said on the Internet, give 2.6 billion countermeasures without any measures at all, since the countermeasures are too much! So how much does the secondary crisis cost? It costs incalculable. And what about the debt? First of all, I should like to thank Mr Tsakalotos and Mr Juliarakis for signing and submitting to the House today, the explanatory report on the medium-term financial strategy for 2018-2021, where on pages 146 and 147 the intervention of the debt of 2012-PSI, OSI, restructuring, reduction of interest, all that allows us today to expect additional debt measures - and they have written it in a better way than I would have written. They're Venizelos' venizelos! I testify and thank them. [[Applause from the wings of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR and New Democracy]] [[At this point, the Member, Evangelos Venizelos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] However, we have seen that there is a 'Pekinou clause' for the debt. Mr. Tsipras in Beijing said that neither measures nor countermeasures would be implemented if the IMF did not enter the Programme - that is to say - because if the IMF does not enter the Programme Greece is in the absolute deadlock, because the game with fire has now led us to burn, whatever move. After all, the new political ideal of SYRIZA is to give the small, additional parametric changes, which are a continuation of the 2012 intervention. Look, there's no exit strategy from the memorandum. There is a struggling strategy to stay in power, as far as it goes, by a government which is supposedly European and legitimate. When the election time arrives, there will be the break, the exacerbation, the question, the antisystemicity, because only in this way can some fans who will increase SYRIZA's electoral conflict. That's why the game with the institutions starts again. I read semi-official leaks from the government that it is preparing an anti-constitutional referendum to express the electorate at the outset for the revision of the Constitution, and in particular for the electoral system. This is expressly contrary to Rule 110 of the Constitution, the strictness of the Constitution, the exclusive competence of the House. The people are actively involved due to the elections in the review process. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Is there a'success story' scenario for the economy, which the SYRIZA - ANEL Government can handle and politically capitalise until the date of the elections? My answer is 'no, do not work out'. We shall be urging until the date of the elections with a pretext for seriousness, and then again intensification, polarisation and rupture, because there are no political and social conditions for'success story', even if there are some automatic improvements in a compressed economy. Society cannot with such a government adopt the reform programme it needs, it cannot gain the desire to gain the lost ground and the lost time. After elections, there is another government that needs to be fully co-operation between all democratic forces in Europe, with the defeated SYRIZA being called upon to participate without being able to block or dictate developments. But it is not enough to talk about elections and government plans. He needs the alternative plan. The alternative plan exists, we present it, we will compose it very soon. Besides, without the political conditions that I have said - elections and other governments - without the social prerequisite of a society that has a reform programme and without budgetary and financial conditions, everyone is easily talking about development, but they cannot do anything, because they need political will, and historical awareness, but also a confidence of responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, too. Mr Davakis, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor. Mr. Davakis, please keep the six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u183	Ladies and gentlemen, it is sincerely a pity at this difficult occasion for the place, in this truly unprecedented picture, because of the economic and social crisis, that voices of poison splitting are heard in this Chamber, such as those that have already been heard. While the Greek people are asking for a consensus from all political forces on the fundamentals, on the obvious, reasonable and unified, in order to get out of the quadrant, such as colleagues before, Mrs Fotius and the other colleague, it is a characteristic of the division that SYRIZA has invested in so that it is today taken from the benches of power. I want to answer Mrs. Fotio, who swinged our fingers and reminded me of an old teacher when we had to be disgraceful about school lunches, etc. and to tell her that our country - and it must know, but it hides it - is the only European Union country that in 2015, 2016 and 2017 has not absorbed the free fruit and vegetable distribution programme at all in schools. What does Mrs Fotio have to say about this, which is being taken on and cut off for school meals and all that she makes up her great work in the field she is ministering to? As far as the debt is concerned, as Mr Venizelos said, what debt? What are you talking about, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, the government, when the Commission talks about the strategic sustainability of the debt - they are used to them in Europe, to surround them with verbal bulbs of what they do not want to see - or about how a credible strategy will be found to ensure the sustainability of the Greek debt, while Mrs Lagard, on the other hand, the participation of the International Monetary Fund by the sustainability of the Greek debt? It's all sad. And it is saddening when we hear applause from SYRIZA colleagues about the reduction of pensions, about the loss of about 3,500 euros from each Greek household, about the reduction of the tax from medical services, about the cutting of social benefits, unemployment benefits, poverty benefits, special wages. You know, for two years now at the Ministry of National Defence, with your partner and the loyal believer of the Radical Left Panagiotis Kammenos, there has been a theater of the absurdity, which aims at deceiving and mocking the officials of the Armed Forces and the active and retired forces. Mr. Kammens uses the Ministry of National Defence, in order to survive politically, to catch up to 3% in order to enter the House again. Falsely unsympathetic, like the one with the personal difference! In fact, I saw yesterday a man - who I appreciate - the Deputy Minister, Mr Vitsa, who said that the officials in the payroll of the month that ends, the next and the next, will not see any reduction. Can Mr. Deputy Minister tell us what will happen in a semester? What is going to happen with the personal difference that it is currently introducing in the specific - which is now called'special' - wage bills, when the wage difference brakes wage developments, is establishing the 'freedom' of wage developments? And you can understand that this reveals the mockery where last year they came to the House and by mouth Mr. Kammenos and my companions, an amendment that would 'freeze' this measure by September 2016. The lies and inconsistencies towards a part of the Greek people, which is its burn and shield, such as those of the Armed Forces, have no precedent. And it is sad that the left-wing officials continue this policy. Is there any growth? How can there be growth when we see the master of Piraeus making such decisions about the Greek and when we see Mrs. Konordos introduce certain buildings as the preserver of Greek. Well, in 1937, when the work began in the Greek, the Archaeological Service had not carried out excavations? Didn't he see all this? Unfortunately, however, the ideas that characterize you for so many years are now coming to put a brake on such an investment as that of the Greek. Ladies and gentlemen, the bodies we have heard and the Scientific Service of the House has been a catalyst for what you will be voting on in a few hours. Of course, the new theorem he says was found, "You know, in 2015 the institutions said the same thing to you that brought memorials".
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u184	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u185	I shall conclude, Mr President. And I wonder, with me, what has the Greek people changed so far? It changed, in the hands of the Greek people. This picture of the future, which creates a prospect, is now made up of a nightmare experienced by the Greek people. The Greek people knew what it meant to be right. He found out what it means to the left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u186	Mr Kikilias, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u187	Mr President, tell us the order.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u188	The turn of Members is as follows: After Mr Kikilis, Mr Theocharopoulos and Mr Karamanlis will speak if parliamentary representatives and ministers are not involved.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u189	They'll be intruded.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u190	They're asking to intervene. What's the show? He's Mr. Blonde, who's waiting for...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u191	After Mr. Kikilia, I'll talk to Mr. Vorides.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u192	Have you come to an understanding?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u193	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u194	Good. Mr. Kikilia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u195	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not even need six minutes. Listen, gentlemen, the vote lies in the logic. In Greece, however, where the Greeks are psychiatric, the Greeks translate this as they wish - they prevailed and the emotional vote prevailed. Emotional vote was taken by Mr. Alexis Tsipras, along with you, practicing it by the Greeks, not by the positive years of the term, unfortunately. The psychiatric and emotions of the Greeks existed and there's in the hard part. It seemed this after seven years and trying to re-establish democracy. Before the Olympic Games we saw the Greeks united, there was consensus, there was passion to show the best Greece. Unfortunately, you and Mr. Tsipras, Mr. Tsipras and you, bet on man's most prosperous feelings, poison, hatred, intolerance and the feeling that you can break up colleagues, consciences, political parties, history easily, lightly heartfeltly, a Priori. And if not you, your comrades, who are no longer in Parliament, and some of you were in the squares, chased my fellow Members in their constituencies - especially in the region - mocked them, used mobile phone technology to cross them, smuggled them, stigmatized them socially, raped their families, their social forum and led the country into an unprecedented adventure in the midst of a crisis. Everyone admits - and you yourself - that, in fact, at the end of 2014 in the real economy had made it clear that this is changing, that the sacrifices that led from -9% to +0.5% - I repeat, not in an environment of prosperity, but with the labors and sacrifices of the Greeks - began to land. So instead of what did you do? You have invested in the feelings of the Greeks, in the river emotion that you created with your rhetoric. You've set enemies. You have created guilty men. You've been mocking, chased, crossed, and you've taken authority. You took the authority to give 12 billion euros of benefits. And you took EUR 14.2 billion painful measures and EUR 4.9 billion in your last decision and the memorandum you yourself admit. If you do not accept Mr Philadelphia as an ideological tomb of the Paradoxical newspaper and your resignation, I imagine my political analysis is unnecessary. And to finish, because above the justice of people - they say it and the books of law - there is rewarding justice, commonly the divine trial, you are coming in years 2017, just two and a half years after the wards of your communication, to be punished for the way you have operated all these years on the streets and squares. Because the program of Thessaloniki is equal to the parallel program that equals the countermeasures and is all political shit together. Because we and you know that there will not be a surplus of 5.6% in 2021, that there will be no surplus of 5.6%, and that this surplus of you, in development times, would burn down, mocked it and mocked it. I am not talking about relations with interests, entrepreneurs and the establishment you have been talking about all these years and you have shown the New Democracy, the political leaders, the PASOK, the post-multiple parties, etc. You're in good cooperation with them. You are enemies of the Greek people and you are directly opposed to the low pensioners, the employees, the middle class, the free professionals, whoever has fought and fought in the Greek society. I repeat, therefore, that above the justice of men it is retaliatory justice, the divine trial. It doesn't matter whether it's going to be today, tomorrow or tomorrow. The cost is very great and very expensive and the Greek society pays it. The time will come when we will be judged and judged - you and us for the cruel truths and the hard way - by the Greek people. Then no one will be able to hide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u196	Thank you very much for the time. Mr Theocharopoulos, Member of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u197	Aren't Mr. Maddash going to talk now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u198	A Member should speak, then the parliamentarians and the ministers. A Member of Parliament also intervenes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u199	Let's get this over with, too. The humble, the last to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u200	That's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u201	The House of Lords and the House of Plenipotentiaries! Do it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u202	Please, Mr. Theocharopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u203	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill fully confirms the buying of hope. The lies really succeed each other. This account of the austerity measures touches everyone and everything, especially free professionals, pensioners, low and medium-sized strata. These measures naturally follow on from the negotiation. This is a negotiation - a debacle of your government. You signed high primary surpluses -3,5% - for many years after 2018. You are moving towards a preventive legislation which, according to the Government and with you, is outside the acquis communautaire and unconstitutional. The measures have been binding on the country for many years. This undermines every possibility, every chance of getting out of the crisis. It is really wonder why the evaluation was delaying. I guess SYRIZA was negotiating in the middle of the day. There's no other explanation. This assessment should be closed in a timely manner and should relate only to measures for the third Memorandum of 2015. The government, however, agreed to a much greater burden of measures than was provided for in the Memorandum, without even new funding. Nevertheless, you do not hesitate to take on a propaganda speaking of EUR 7.5 billion countermeasures, while we have EUR 4.9 billion. You say that we have EUR 2.6 billion. But aren't you ashamed? Are these arguments? Can they convince anyone right now to the Greek people? Do you think the Greek people are eating spoon to think we're getting out of here and earning 2,5 billion euros in the long term? Ladies and gentlemen, every article in the bill is proof of the polite optimism of the government and all the articles together break down myths. First of all, debt settlement. In what exact way? Did the government, despite the heavy measures, achieve something about debt restructuring? No further solution for the debt. The government is simply saying today that it will clear up the measures if the debt is settled. I can imagine with a law and an article. But are these serious things? They are unacceptable amateurisms on the back of an entire country. In fact, it has neither secured what was foreseen in 2012 nor what was foreseen in the Eurogroup in 2016, a year ago. Second myth: The measures are the discharge from the program. Because it is myth: you reduce main and supplementary pensions, even the low pensioners. You are dramatically reducing duty, even for low incomes. Of course, Mr Tsakalotou's final example shows, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, that the hundred and fifty three Members will vote on everything, even if they declare themselves and commit themselves exactly to the opposite. After Mr Chakalotos told us that if he falls below 9,000 euros tax-free, he will go to Maximos, give his resignation, he will come here and vote against, sign for less than 6,000 euros tax-free and is in his place. This is where the words really lose their meaning. Rejoice Mr. Chakaloto, the Minister of Finance! Rejoice the hundred and fifty-three to rejoice him and all fifty-three! Of course, all he told us in the debate in the committees is that, "I promised that for last year, for a year ago, in May 2016, that I kept it around". And after a year it actually fell under 6,000 euros! But are these arguments? Are these arguments which you are telling the Greek people today when these measures are voted on? You are increasing the insurance contributions of free professionals, self-employed and farmers, confirming once again the absolute collective nature. How does social protection, however, go hand in hand with the brutal reduction in benefits and continuing poverty? How is it consistent with cutting family allowances or heating allowance? You have reached the point of abolishing financial aid from families with low incomes, young unemployed. And after all, you speak of the International Monetary Fund and 3.5% of its countermeasures, which Mr Tsipras himself considered impossible for many years. Third myth, countermeasures. The government is celebrating. Except, as is clear from Article 15, these should first pass through the sieve of creditors - especially the International Monetary Fund - at the end of the programme and only be approved if a primary surplus of 3.5% is achieved, which you considered to be too high and which requires overtaxation. The countermeasures are therefore the definition of the recycling of poverty. Another mockery, another episode in the promise series. It is exactly what SYRIZA's Thessaloniki programme was in January 2015 and that it was SYRIZA's parallel program in September 2015. And let me not talk about going back to growth. But what development are we talking about? We haven't seen any development plan. The outstanding debts are upwards. How will investment be when we are in this situation? Of course, we also saw Mr Tsipras yesterday saying that there are so positive developments that it is difficult to believe. But the Greek people find it difficult to believe the measures that are coming at the moment. In fact, Mr. Tsipras said he'd wear a tie. Here, ladies and gentlemen, in a previous interview, he said he does not want to wear a tie, because he will be told that he has been compromised. It is therefore incomprehensible that Mr Tsipras, who voted for memoranda, signed memoranda, brought the country into this situation. What suits you is Mr Katrugalu's government posset and Mr Tsipras's Eurogroup. No ties. The government's accessories, the posset, the flying scarf they used earlier to wipe out the tears of a lady when she's crying. This posset will be used for the tears of the Greek people today, because what is being done today, with these unacceptable measures, cannot be lifted by the Greek people. We are therefore voting against this product of inefficient negotiation, which is a real debacle. We, the Democratic Reconciliation, are here with our proposals and say that if the present agreement were to be musically invested, we would not be talking about 'Ode to Hara', but about 'Rekviem'. That's actually it. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Don't bother you, ladies and gentlemen. We need a progressive plan to overcome the crisis. You have not only divorced left-wing and progressive policies, but also common sense. But those who believed in you will not be locked up. We will give the progressive plan, without populism, without delusion. We won't let you drive the country to the bottom.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u204	PASOK?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u205	Who? PASOK?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u206	Yes, the PASOK, the Democratic Left, the Democratic Socialist Movement, the movements of citizens and all the progressive forces will unite in order to address this situation in the country. It is not possible to continue this unacceptable policy. Be sure that there will be a progressive proposal for the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty-eight students and students and seven educational attendants from the 9th and 10th Municipal School of Dramas, as well as from the Eleas Fotidas Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] A Member shall intervene for each parliamentary representative and Minister. The turn of Members, as I said, is Mr Karamanlis, Mr Yoyakas, Mr Karaoglu. The series of parliamentary representatives is Mr Mandas and Mr Voridis and Mr Petropoulos and Mr Xanthos. Please, Mr. Maddash has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u208	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning at first.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u209	You may think it's even good morning yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u210	You're whatever.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u211	Please be quiet. Keep going, Mr. Mada, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u212	I'm on it. I don't want to get into this climate. I will try to speak on my text and on what I have thought to share with you, namely with the National Representation, and of course, through the National Representation, with the Greek people. I would just like to make one comment, because I always take care of Mr Venizelos, and of course I will read the texts he has left us to study, as is his article 'Protagon'. I think, however, that there needs to be a little lower tone when, on this side, we have met about EUR 60 billion in the budget adjustment from 2010 to 2015 and some - over a dozen - cuts in retroactive pensions, which are at least over 30%. Ladies and gentlemen, one of us who is from the SYRIZA government's majority could hardly have imagined a few years ago that we would be in positions of government responsibility in such a critical period for our country. It would be difficult to imagine some of us from anti-digital resistance, the upsurge of post-population, until the recent years of the struggles against neoliberal globalisation and the monumental coercion in the post-digital world, that there would be a historic time once again in this small country, at the crossroads of the East and West, which the left, flesh from the flesh of our people, would again be following the mandate of the Greek people in the face of top responsibilities, difficult dilemmas, decisive decisions on the future of the people and the country. We have to be involved today, once again in two and a half years - and I am sure that less or more and all of us are aware - with historical dimensions of cross-border dilemmas that deepen our existence in all its dimensions. As much as we revolve, it is time for decisions. This is the moment. It is time to tell our people - regardless of where each is placed politically and ideologically, regardless of whether it feels toward us betrayed, angry, or even if it supports us critically - the full truth, by circumventing the daily and buying attacks of our opponents, that we are allegedly lying, and facing society uprightly. Yes, it is time for consciousness that you weigh the decisions with dilemmas concerning life stops, the Left, its historic path, the past, the present and its future, the general and public interest, the interest of the majority of society and the layers that you want to represent and that you are classed and relevant. That is exactly what it is, when these moments in terms of great ease are being launched - and unfortunately this runs horizontally through the political forces - classes, political characterisations, vulgar expressions, in terms of current communication and lifestyle. The only aim of the fanatical return to power is to convince the systemic media that the Left itself is rather worse or worse too. To spread doubts and suspicion even in our hardest core. To migrate us morally and intriguingly. Ladies and gentlemen, they will not be able to do so, not because we are vague and angels, but because we are confusing values and visions of the Enlightenment and the great reversals of the last century, mystic desires and visions of millions of lands, not in terms of uniqueness and loneliness, but in terms of increased responsibility. Those who are bragged that they will easily end with the Left, they are fooled and have historical myopia. So we have in front of us a bill that we know is a product of compromise in tough negotiations, where rational arguments do not work, but the correlations and enforcement. The Greek people know that with their own contribution, despite fatigue and despair in many cases and hard work, we have managed to overcome the objectives of the primary surplus. This, even if one can see it as a trap, is our main negotiator. This course was not a neutral option. It was obviously not by accident, as was the case - otherwise - the country's geopolitical position was not used. It was indeed used in an international effort to strengthen any alliances within the unprecedented conditions of the refugee crisis, which the Greek people managed in terms of solidarity and humanity, despite the lack of structures and infrastructure, despite our mistakes and omissions. Within this effort was the South Summit, the visits of great leaders of major countries to our country. Or is it also from heaven the recent joint statement by the Piedmont, Chimer and Keller, the leaders of the groups in the European Parliament, the Socialists, the Left and the Greens calling for a debt settlement? We believe that we have basically brought the best possible outcome, given the circumstances and the correlations, with the pressure of the International Monetary Fund for new unilateral measures of EUR 4,500,000, and under threat of extending the uncertainty, which would dissolve the economy and society. In other words, we are bringing in countermeasures of the same financial size - no one disputes this - with a strong social package close to EUR 2 billion and a strong similar package from the point of view of the reductions: lower tax rate, zeroing the solidarity levy of up to EUR 30,000, etc., which are, of course, activated, when we are within the objectives, without applying the measures on pension cuts and tax reductions. To say this more simply, in other words, and finally to get to grips with at least the numbers, if we have 3.5% in 2018 primary surplus, plus 1% of the integration measures, 4.5%, minus 1% of the countermeasures, makes us 3.5%. Obviously, if the objectives are to be reduced, we will have a reduction in countermeasures and if the targets are exceeded, we will have an increase in the area of additional social and development policy and, of course, with the certification of the mechanism described in Article 15. There is a lot of talk, and there is a lot of ease and hypocrisy about this article. So, after all that, how do you imagine? Or do you not know that the institutions should also certify the achievement of the objectives? Or don't you know that if this goes away, as you hypocritically request, the next moment there won't be a deal? Who? You, the high priests of Greek statisticals, who, with the help and tolerance of your international friends, have surprised us at the time and internationally with your ability to bring up deficits, surpluses, quantitative, percentages and everything else human mind can imagine. Yes, we have committed ourselves - and we say it very clearly - that in 2019 we will cut by 18%, i.e. 2% or 7% or 12%, depending on what is about 1/3 of pensions, that is, they have a personal difference. The rest of us have no personal difference and their pensions will not be cut. In some four hundred thousand with the recalculation it will result in a more positive result than previously received pensions. This increase will be received in a period of five years. Yes, we are committed that 2020 will reduce the tax-free discount and many people from the lower layers will pay for the first time a tax. These two are negative measures. It wasn't in our choice. He's at the patron of dogmatic, classic and hard policies. We were attacked. We are trying to compensate for the countermeasures, zero participation in medicines for those with monthly individual income below EUR 700, the rental allowance for six hundred thousand households and others. Yes, to the extent that the main issues in these two years are progressing smoothly, we must see and implement the scope for renegotiation of these tough measures. So there's hope? I am replying directly 'yes'. "yes" is also social protest and resistance and persistent and documented work and creative upheaval, in other words social participation, which can boost us. Because some people are confused and think that we are practicing and opportune on many boats, we are making it clear that, despite difficulties and compromises, we on a bank are on the banks of social transformation with democracy and freedom. We are not celebrating or ethering, but we are dreaming and envisioning. We are fighting and we are not giving up the fight, not parliamentary and government chairs. Nor, of course, are we fantasy with succession at forecast level, as are serious people from Accuracy Opposition continue to claim, comparing the take-off that would be done with the reality of failure to the goals they set. I repeat. [[At this point, the closing bell of the honourable Member's speech hits a warning bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, I would like to. I'm done. Since it was all so blooming, why didn't you close the evaluation, ladies and gentlemen, of the opposition? Did you fear us? Or why have you speeded up the process for the selection of the new President of the Republic and delivered cash to the new government with two months of time? Why didn't you wait two months to catch the targets, since you claim that everything was lost December 2014 and January - February 2015? However, it wasn't us who were telling people to take their statements and take them to the mattresses or to foreign banks. We do not have such a public or suspect accounts in Switzerland or in exotic islands. Yeah, there's hope. Yes, from the beginning of July, VAT on agricultural supplies will be reduced from 24% to 13%. Yes, wages and pensions will not be cut in the next twenty months and tens of thousands of people are likely to find a full-time job. Yes, we will continue with a great deal of insistence to go on reforming primary health care, which is flagrant reform, and we will have hundreds of local health units operating by the end of the year. Yes, we will lay the foundations for a deep reform of education, so that we do not continue to torture the adolescents of this country and their families in an impregnable, exileative and unreliable system of examinations. Yes, we will activate the mechanism of crossing tax declarations and deposits, and we will be ruthless towards the having and possessing criminals who are evading social taxes. Yes, we will have much more non-refoulement, as they say, results and in 2017 and 2018, mainly increasing tax compliance, which will give us space for social policy, which is dogmatics of neoliberalism, those who consider health care to be individual responsibility and not a right and a social good, are trying to favour it, reducing the value of common, rights and public space. Yes, there is hope, because we will take and have already launched new institutional and other initiatives at the level of rights. Yes, the next time we can have a legitimate and truly pluralist broadcasting landscape. Yes, there is hope, because many and cumulative financial instruments are being activated and activated, as Alexis Haritsis proved yesterday, in terms of full transparency in the country's fundamental effort for productive redevelopment, with a new productive model for many, for the young, questionable, I would venture to say, at least in certain elements of the capitalist recovery, but with a vision of the formation of new examples at the level of the social economy, for example. What do I want to say, ladies and gentlemen, to the Greek people through the National Representation? [[Noise in the Chamber]] I shall conclude, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u213	Please, Mr. Mada, I have a vacancy of time, but we've been 15 minutes. Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u214	I shall conclude, Mr President. I want to say that the next few days, if we soon have a comprehensive agreement, count as months and hours as days. The critical time is until we cleanly close the program and go out not on the holy markets - alas, we are no longer so naive - but on the markets, in fact. Now they really do not need much to talk, but actions, to solve problems, to face difficulties, to improve the daily lives of the citizen, to unresolve arrogance and corruption, where it goes to raise a head, to isolate the Nazi challenges completely. All this with democratic collective function in the government, in the parliamentary group, in SYRIZA. Open to the people and constantly opening our ears and our eyes to society. We're already starting a new course tomorrow. We need to change a lot and we need to change a lot. We have time, we have potential. In this triumph of uncertainties, which - among other things - the incredible liquidity in our wider region and the refugee crisis, we can withstand, if we remain stable in our values and our visions, if we are not absorbed and forced on the dominating sirens, by limiting lines and facilities, especially if we keep our links with society alive. I repeat: from tomorrow every day onwards it is a month of responsibility, collectiveness, efficiency, social well-being, European and international initiatives. Worried, concerned and determined, we are moving forward. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Allow me for a second more.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u215	Please, be quiet. Mr. Mada, you're finishing up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u216	I shall conclude, Mr President. Dionysios Kapsalis, commenting on the "Objects" of the " Dawn" the life of Angel Elefanti, says: "There is something I would call it "Saharan" in his life. Angel Elephant, like Philip Eliou, answers the question posed by Socrates, the first question of morality, how we should live. Angel and Philip have a specific answer, respond in practice.’ That was their great virtue. In this virtue we must be very firm and committed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u217	Thank you. Mr. Madda, you have made the life of the Bureau difficult. I'm talking about time. The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Juliarakis, has asked for the floor for a minute for a legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u218	When will the MPs speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u219	For one minute he has asked for the floor for a legal improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u220	He's not in the Chamber right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u221	He's not even in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u222	Now he's asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u223	Let's wait, let's stop!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u224	He's got very serious business. Let's wait!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u225	We'll move on. Mr Karamanlis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u226	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am sure our parliamentary representative will respond to the very good things Mr Mandas has said. But you will allow me to say two things with all due respect, because I think you are a serious man. I urge the Greek citizens, Mr Manda, to read Article 15, because I think that whoever speaks Greek will fully understand that, unfortunately, for you and the Greek people - a measure - you must have the approval of the IMF. With regard to the question about Hardouvel's mail and why we did not close the evaluation, I would like to say that the assessment, if you remember correctly, did not close because you blackmailed with the election of the President of the Republic. This is a reality, which I think we all have to accept. Let me say a few words on the issues of the infrastructure and transport sector. Under Article 81 the Greek State transfers all its shares to OSA, OSH, STSY, OSH, OSE, ELTA and Athens Airport and, together with them, transfers all the revenues from all concessions to the major motorways. If that's not called a sale, then I don't understand what's gonna be called a sale. Article 47. Once again, the start of the use of ESADI should be postponed, which should have been operational for a year. We have been telling you this for some time now that you cannot even organise this electronic system. Result? All the auctions have already blocked. I come quickly to Articles 118 and 119, which are unprecedented: a recommendation is made to the Secretariat-General for Infrastructural Units for Public and Private Projects. In this way the General Secretariat will be able to obtain any financial information from all the ministries and institutions, such as the TEI. Everyone here can understand what that means and raises questions about transparency. At the same time, paragraph 3 of 118 provides absurdity: The General Secretariat of Infrastructure, which has taken these powers, can delegate the management and operation of these powers and responsibilities to other bodies. That is not a Memorandum obligation. In other words, while you concentrate powers and responsibilities on the General Secretariat, then the Minister has the right to grant them elsewhere. If that's not called irrationality, then I don't know what it's called. Mr President, reading the third memorandum of 14 August 2015, one finds that at that time the government was on a matter that was consistent and systematic: the extermination of the middle class. Reading the fourth Memorandum - because, you see, you have the sad privilege within two years to have brought two memorials - one finds that your governance is also on another thing systematic: the extermination of the non-preferentials. We can therefore safely say that unfortunately you are the practical denial of the Left. Looking towards the seat of the Communist Party, I apologise to the only truly left of this Chamber. Because the Left has always given absolute priority to protecting the weak. You, today, come and punish those you're supposed to be protecting. In this sense, today the Left of SYRIZA has suffered the most critical blow. You show, however, that you remain consistently left in the following, that you faithfully express Lenin's saying "the truth is a petty habit and that the repeated lie becomes true". For two years, you will allow me to tell you, instead of making politics, you are making baptism. You are baptising the Troika 'institutions', the Third Memorandum of Loan Contract and, finally, the Fourth Memorandum 'the end of the Memorandum'. That tampering has reached its top. Efforts to change name in things, to change reality, have come to an end. Today we find that most of SYRIZA is slowly trying to leave the fantasy world of a theoretical system. But two years now, you refuse to see reality and today you refuse to admit that you are voting for a fourth memorandum. Where is this view of the New Democracy based, that this is really a fourth memorandum? The answer is simple. The measures you are currently legislating last beyond 2018, i.e. you impose measures that bind the country beyond the end of the third memorandum. But your main argument is this. You say "we may take 5 billion meters, we may reduce duty to 5,600 euros, we may cut pensions to 20%, but we have the countermeasures". I go back to Article 15 and call on all Greek citizens to read it. For even a euro countermeasure to apply, you need the IMF's assent. Here, therefore, it is a collapse for SYRIZA's main Members of this House that the so-called argument for the countermeasures is on the table. But you are also the government of absolute contradictions. In December 2016 you said that you were giving the 15th pension. You're practically cutting two today. You assured us - the Prime Minister himself three months ago - that neither a euro nor a euro measure, and that you take 4.9 billion. Your contradictions degrade your record of exiting the vicious circle of memorials. So you fully mortgage the future of the country. For these reasons, the position of the New Democracy, the great centre-right party, is clear. We do not agree with the resolution of the fourth memorandum, which aims to eliminate non-preferentials. This memorandum will only have your own stamp. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u227	For one minute there is the Deputy Minister of Education, Mr Baxvanakis, to testify to a legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I wanted to say that it was very touching for Mr Karamanlis to defend the value of the Left. I do not know, of course, whether the compliment he made to the Communist Party is accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u229	Please, Minister, stay with meditary improvement so that no further debate can begin.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u230	Ladies and gentlemen, we are tabling a legislative improvement in Article 56, in particular paragraph 9, which refers to the independent committee, which determines whether a contract notice is lawful and whether it is abusive or not. The provision contained in the draft shall state that the committee shall meet and take a mandatory decision within sixty days. There was an observation from the Federation of Private Educational Schools - reasonable, in our view - that, probably because of a workload, this committee will not be able to carry out the work required by the project within two months. For this reason, in the sixty days we increase it over the ninety days. The improvement is as follows: ‘in the sixth paragraph of the calendar day amended by Article 56(9) of Chapter III of Part IV of Article 30 of Law 682/1977, the words ‘in sixty (60) calendar days’ shall be replaced by ‘in ninety (90) calendar days’. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u231	Please, the proposed legislative improvement to be distributed to my fellow Members. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Vorides, has been speaking for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u232	Let me start with praise, ladies and gentlemen. Because, the truth is you already own high score. Two memos in two years, no one's ever achieved. So this is already championship, memorial championship and very successful! What can we wish for now? We wish you'd trip it to the next one? I guess not. What are you voting on today? What are the votes today, ladies and gentlemen, by the majority of the government? You vote to tax on people who have an income of EUR 500 a month. Travelmark, Mr. Manda! You represent the poor and you vote to get them a tax from the pentacosary. Ladies and gentlemen, what else do the government majority vote for? They vote to cut the thousands' pensions by 18%. That's what you vote on. What else are you voting for? You are voting to cut off the wages and incomes of police officers, firefighters, ports, military personnel, all those subject to special wages. What are you cutting? The grand wages, the 900 euros. That's what you cut! Travelmark, Mr. Manda! It's not the big capital we're taxing here. It's not the great wealth. It's not capitalism, it's not that capitalists are paying now. It's not big business. It's these workers. They pay. What are you voting for?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u233	Left.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u234	Left, says Mr. Papadopoulos. He didn't hear the above, because he would find it difficult to say it. What are you voting for? Team redundancies. You're voting for them. What else? You're also voting for the lockout. You're voting for this too! What else? You are obviously voting for the reintroduction of collective bargaining with regulation that existed - it is exactly the same! - and you had the ability to activate it whenever you want. All this has been explained. Not from us, but from the agencies. You are also voting for the privatisation of the TECA. And that's what you're voting for. You are also voting for the electronic auction platform. Ladies and gentlemen, that is what you are doing today. That's what you vote on. What's the point? To hear your arguments now. 'We are voting on these, but we are also voting on countermeasures'. Look, perhaps here Mr. Chakalotos - as you were presenting! - along with the answer he will give us or give us or, in any case, wants to supplement it on the matter of resignation, also to comment on an ideological issue concerning duty-free. Speech by Mr. Tsakalotos in the House: "The first we won it. A left government kept the highest tax-free across Europe." That was, as an older colleague, who is not with us, in the Ministry of Finance - 'last year'. This year Mr Tsakalotos must respond, except for why he has not resigned and if he still considers that after the reduction of this tax he is left. But this is an ideological issue and it will respond. But be careful, ladies and gentlemen. There's the countermeasures. My colleague, but others, have referred to Article 15. There can be no misunderstanding about this. Article 15 states: 'The provisions of Articles 3, 9 and 11 to 14, i.e. all countermeasures, shall be implemented subject to the first sentence.' 'and to the extent', the second sentence, 'which, in accordance with the assessment of the International Monetary Fund and the European Commission working together with the European Central Bank, the European Stability Mechanism and the Greek authorities, in the context of the final assessment of the Economic Adjustment Programme...' - What? Did you achieve 3.5% of 2018? No, of course not. - "... no deviation from the medium-term budgetary objectives as set out in the above programme shall be caused." For 2019 and 2020, both for 2021 and for the entire year of the mid-term are the budgetary targets. What didn't you understand and we're talking about here? You got it, I guess. So, then, it's all over here. That's what Article 15 says. I hear an additional argument. He says he's with 3.5%. No, it's not with 3.5%, but it's with targets. But we're going to the targets. But, to get it, if it has a financial impact of a unit, should there not be any prediction that the surplus will be exceeded and the surplus will reach 4.5% to get 1% and go to 3.5%? We agreed on that, too. But I will be very generous with you and I will make you a little challenge. Suppose there's no Article 15? Should we erase it? Let's assume it doesn't exist. I have a simple question for you. What do you come and say to the Greek people? There is, therefore, this additional problem that we have mentioned, but let us say that there was no. What do you come and say to the Greek people? That you will be taxed by the people of the pentacosarius so that you can then give them a rent subsidy? Is that what you're saying? Is that your argument, that you're going to cut the grand's pensions, so you're going to make them a feeding program? Is that what you're saying? This, if Article 15 does not exist. Because what will of course happen is that you will simply get tax from the people of the pentacosar and you will simply cut off pensions, there will be nothing else. But in any case that is the situation. Now listen to the great surpluses of what the Prime Minister said. "The primary surpluses with data on the effects of the current six-year period on a state, society and workers must not exceed 1.5% to 2%. And this is a common secret." And you come and celebrate why would you do countermeasures if you get 5.5%? I'll testify to that. It is a speech of the Prime Minister at the 20th ECONOMIST Round Table. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Mavroudis Voridis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What did Mr. Diaselblum say? I didn't hear anyone argue or deny him. "We agreed with the Greek Government, which can also legislate on expansion measures", listen to the assumption that the economy is going better and the fiscal path goes better than we expect and using the financial space, which will then be used, after these additional reforms are implemented." What don't you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u235	What do you not understand? It's clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u236	So we understand the same thing. Well, then, we have agreed on what we're saying. I am very pleased, Minister, because for so long your good colleagues, unfortunately trying to support your miserable policy, have taken us all crazy, because we all understand this simple, that there are no countermeasures and you are mocking the Greek people. We understand that, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u237	How do you know? Where does it come from?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u238	It's all coming up. But is that possible?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u239	Take off 15.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u240	We are also going to something, because here, in my opinion, is the greatest deception, but perhaps also a window of opportunity. Let's see what Mr Mandash is going to say, who here represents the parliamentary majority. I read the law, third memorandum, 4336/2015: ‘If the financial objective is exceeded, the amount of overdue is available as follows: at least 30% is available for debt service, another 30% for overdue obligations and the remaining 40% for strengthening social protection on the presumption of minimum guaranteed income and lowering taxes’. Do we agree? Is that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u241	That's what you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u242	No, that's the law, Mr. Papadopoulos. Don't argue about the real thing. This is what is being solved with reading. Watch out now. Do we have an over-performance over-performance? How much was the target this year? It was 0.5%. How much did you do? 4 and something didn't work out? 4.2%. How much is the performance? It's 3.7%. How much is 40% of 3.7%? Good! I will give you the following - in favour of you - that it is not repeated, that you have to catch and 1,75 next year and, therefore, we cannot take it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like some more time, Mr President. Question: Can we make half of this available, ladies and gentlemen? One and a half, we're right. You made up your mind. We made a suggestion to you to agree to make it available. We have tabled an amendment. We want you to vote in favour of it. We're telling you: Give it to reduce HISBIA. Put it in order to reduce VAT on agricultural supplies from 24% to 13%. Put it in order to abolish the tax on wine. One of the four things I'm saying is one. Don't be in a hurry. Finally, make it available to support and build more places at the children's stations. So here's the challenge. Vote on the New Democracy amendment. You have the income as it should, the one that has come out of the surpluses. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I'm going to the next one, though. The great success of the countermeasures is what? Well, that's a countermeasure. They're dignified and they were. But there's no added value to what you did. That's what I'm telling you. There is no added value. I shall proceed, ladies and gentlemen. Why are you doing all this? Listen to what you told us, which I find to be revealing. That is what the explanatory statement on debt regulation says. But, since 2012, the process of debt adjustment has begun.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u243	By 2015, nothing had happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u244	Did you fight? Now get ready to swallow the bracelet. Get ready. Are you ready? Let's go. In the medium term, which you are voting on now. That's what you guys are voting for. You, the ones who fooled about 2012, the medium-term you vote on what he says?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u245	Mr. Voridis, please, your time is over. I'll give you two more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u246	Give me some room. The public debt for decades - says the medium-term at 7, page 233- has had a particularly growth dynamic. In recent years its composition and structure have improved, its average residual physical duration has been expanded over time and its service costs significantly decreased. What happened? Did you do this? So you recognize that the previous governments have had a debt effect. What are you sitting down and telling us now about the big successes and bringing these measures, you say, to start the debt negotiation, which has been bringing concrete results since 2012? Who are you kidding? But you're revealing yourself. It opens up, says the Minister, a great path ahead of us, the path of growth. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. In 2014, we were back in growth. In 2015 you returned to us in the recession. In 2016 you returned to us in the recession. The first quarter of 2017 has a recession. Greece is the only country in the European Union that is in recession because of your own policies and we expect the prospect of growth. We're waiting for something else, colleagues. We are waiting for the test outlet on the markets in 2017-2018. Who? The one we had done in 2014! Congratulations! After all these measures and two memoranda, turn us back where we are in 2014. These are the prospects and great achievements. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] But I heard you all the time you were revealing, because all this is not going anywhere. What did you come here and say, in an internal consumption ratio? 'The problem is that others should not come'. And you used a nice term: "Do not make the reconfiguration." We used him for the monarchy. Now it is the old political system that must not be rectified. That's the poor thing. Don't go away and the government's changed. Why don't you just tell us? Instead of all these perimeters, there is a simple wording for this: 'We want to remain in power. We will do everything we can to achieve this. This is our only purpose." You have a deep existential crisis. Mr. Friend expressed it yesterday. What did Mr. Friend say? "How much to do contrary to your beliefs without losing your soul?" This issue has been raised. I remember that you had a nice slogan here calling it SYRIZA's previous heroic years from the benches: 'Psych deep'. So deep, he's gone! Be well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u247	The Minister has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u248	I noticed something in Mr Vorides' speech, which probably had more time than the Minister of Finance will have later, so I thought I'd make an intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u249	Mr. Maddash spoke more, but you were gone.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u250	I noticed some verbal excesses that get them when they have an enthusiasm. If without measures - countermeasures in 2018, we reach 3.5%, in 2019...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u251	And 2020-2021.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u252	Can I speak? Mr Stavoura, I do not know if you can judge from four words if I am wrong. I think you can hear three suggestions and then judge. Three words, I think you can't. If we make provision in 2018 that we go to 3.5% in 2019, we go to measures and countermeasures. We can say it like Diaselblum, I haven't forgotten him. At least three times I've explained to a committee what Diaselblum says. And Mr. Stakoras will remember that many others of you have explained it. So Mr. Diaselblum says: "If you go to 4.5% in 2018, because you actually go to 3.5% and you get 1% of the pensions, you can do the countermeasures. So there's no chance you won't get the countermeasures. You'll get the countermeasures," says Diaselblum. We predict 3.5% plus 1% pensions, 4.5%, so you get 1%. So there's the countermeasures if we're within the target.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u253	4.5%!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u254	Now, what will happen, Mr. Hatzidakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u255	Look, Mr. Hatzidakis, because I think you're a smart man, the interruption you're doing is just so we don't have to discuss it. I tell you directly that you are interrupting, because you do not want to hear the truth. I was very clear...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u256	Because you've sold your soul and there's a limit now!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u257	Now that, Mr. Hatzidakis...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u258	You're not shy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u259	Come on! Where did you find the soul?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u260	You're totally fooling us!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u261	Mr. Hatzidakis, wait a minute!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u262	Aren't you embarrassed? Join Adonis Georgiades! It took your pain!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u263	Mr. Hatzidakis, wait a minute!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u264	As I made a comparison yesterday, I will make another comparison: you are not like Mr Georgiadis. We didn't have you for that!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u265	I said what I feel!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u266	Mr. Hatzidakis, a lot of psychopathy fell in here today!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u267	You'll hear me. Any man listening to what I'm saying knows what I'm saying and what Diaselblum says is exactly the same. The only difference is if the scenario puts the pension cut or you don't.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u268	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u269	Let me continue. So we agree, I say it in my own way, but, if you like, I say it in the way of Diaselblum. If there is provision for 2019 for 3.5%, we will have both measures and countermeasures... Don't answer me yet, I'll get to it...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u270	Mr. Voridis, you've heard of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u271	But I didn't talk!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u272	Quiet, no more, it's over!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u273	If I didn't talk, what's quiet?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u274	Does Mr. Hatzidakis replace the other Vice President here today?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u275	Whatever you say!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u276	Quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u277	There's the countermeasures. If this is the case - to reach the medium-term that Mr Stakoura burns - if we take 1+ and 1- in 2019, where will we be in 2020? Three-five percent again! So we'll still get them. So let's agree that all that your Chief, you, for 5.5%, doesn't exist? Because in 2019...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u278	How are they not?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u279	Listen, Mr. Bourra. I am trying to explain to you - I think very patiently - with arguments. So in 2019 that we have taken 1+1, logically - unless something has been done we cannot predict, a crisis, something else or something positive, with which we will then be able to spend more - we are on the way to having 3.5% and 2020. Because we had 3.5%, we got 1+1, it erases one another, so there are the countermeasures for 2020 as well. That's the truth. You have set up an entire philology, because you do not have 'this government will fall, there will be no evaluation'. You're building on a lie. The lie is there's no countermeasures. The countermeasures exist if we are within the targets. That's the one I want to say. The second is that by 2021 we have more countermeasures to take. Until the basic scenario says we can have up to 3 billion, reduce taxes, which I thought so far was something you would appreciate. So I can take them from Juliarakis, who's put them on taxes, and put them to costs if you don't care.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u280	And if...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u281	Let's go down. What did you tell us about the debt, Mr. Voridis? You know what you told us about the debt? That he doesn't need anything for the debt. You told us that in 2012 you solved it, that is, three days before the Eurogroup you tell us that Venizelos - I don't know why you are so bad to support him - solved the debt in 2012. If the debt ended in 2012, why are we in this situation at the moment? I'm guessing for the one year of SYRIZA, that the economy was derailed. Is that what you're saying? In other words, with a sustainability that lasts for 50 years in the calculations of the IMF, the ESM, the ECB, which makes sustainability studies, you say that if there was not one year that SYRIZA did not go well, debt would be sustainable. Is that what you're saying? Can I know why three days before the Eurogroup we do not have your support that we need further debt reduction and you told us that everything has been fine since 2012? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] If you answer that, you can continue the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u282	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u283	Mr President, I want the floor for a minute as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u284	Mr President, I would like to speak as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u285	Now what process are we going to implement?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u286	Let's move on to the list.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u287	Wait a minute. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty students and students and two educational attendants of the Leonidio Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Yoyakas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u288	Mr President, when he asks for the floor after Minister's intervention you cannot give him the floor. You can't do that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u289	No, it can't be! We're asking for this, too, and it never happens.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u290	Mr. Voridis, please make things easier.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u291	I make it very easy for her. I'd have talked in two minutes. There's no question and you know it's perfectly normal. The Minister referred to his speech...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u292	Then tell me that two minutes in the ocean of eternity is not a single drop.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u293	Mr President, do I have the floor for two minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u294	Here you go, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u295	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u296	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u297	I didn't say you said bad words. You've spoken excellently! Mr Tsakalotto, we're both used to speaking a bit normal, as normal as you can, but kind of normal. What does that mean? That you cannot in this way wrong the arguments. Firstly, with everything you have tried to tell us, you have fully confirmed what we say about countermeasures. Fully! That's exactly what we're saying. The countermeasures are taken under two conditions: that the budgetary targets of 3.5% have been achieved and therefore additional measures are upwards to 4.5%, so that they can come down afterwards. Only then! That's what we're saying. So the surplus is 4.5%. To be informed. It's no different. The second thing we are saying is that this is not about a year - thankfully it has been revealed, because so far you have told us otherwise - but about the objectives of the financial programme for the medium-term programme for 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021. Not a year. The third point is that it requires the approval of the IMF and the European Commission. I mean, excuse me, say hello to the plank! Let me just say it: say hello to me the plank! Never countermeasures! You have agreed - I am pleased that it was clear from the debate - what are the countermeasures, Mr Colleague. Good success in voting and justify that you are cutting off the wages and pensions, cutting off the wages of the trustees, taking tax from the pentacosarios and cutting off the grand pensions with them. You didn't answer the main one for the debt. Here you come and tell us that you will do all of this - you are writing it in your explanatory statement - in order to open up, he says, the debt debate. Read your explanatory statement! Do I write them? I was told by the Minister on your right, to read a little further down and a little above it. The point is that this phrase is included in your explanatory statement. So I told you a simple thing: Did the debt debate start now? Is that what you guys understand? What were the previous settings? Or wasn't there? Did I ever say there should be no further adjustment for the debt? When did we tell you that? I said I've never said New Democracy ever said that any arrangement... You have our blessing, you have our good wish to go and bring the best possible debt adjustment. If we tell you already that we do not trust the result very much, you will not mislead us! We've got one. But you have it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u298	Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u299	Mr. Voridis, you're done. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u300	I will say a word and thank you for your wishes. What you said about 2019 and 2020 I accept it. There is, however, a great 'but'. I do not accept from your Chief to say that in order for the countermeasures to exist, we need overrun of detachment. Because this is your wickedness. You do not say every time you come out that we need to go beyond the target if we have incorporated the measures we have not yet taken. So the ordinary citizen is left with the impression - and don't tell me that you have no sign of wickedness - that, to get these countermeasures, we need to go beyond the targets. That's very important and you don't tell them. So if I hear Mr Mitsotakis every time - I've heard him on TV too, I've heard him elsewhere - say that, in order to make the countermeasures, the target needs to be exceeded once the other measures exist, then I have no problem. So what you're saying is honest. I agree that this is the wording of Dieselblum, it's yours, but, when you say it from now on, you'll say it the way you said it. Not the way you say it on the channels, which everyone says is generally needed. You say there's overstatement in economics. Someone's gonna ask you about what. When you clear it up, as you did in an honest way, I have no problem with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u301	Aren't you going to tell us anything about the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u302	Mr. President, may I be present now or then?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u303	Will you accept our amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u304	You know very well that I judge all the amendments of great importance, without giving any favourable treatment to someone else.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u305	Mr. Yoyakas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u306	Ladies and gentlemen, it is very difficult to take the floor after Mr. Voridis with his very thorough thoughts and views, decentralizing all of this...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u307	A good word he said!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u308	Vassilis, he can disembark you. Vasilis, attention! You're gonna say good words, 'cause he can kick you out.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u309	Wait a minute, Mr. Yoyaka. The side here doesn't complain when there's a turbulence over there. You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u310	In the last few days we have witnessed another attempt to baptize the fish meat, to present the vote as the beginning of better days for our place. It is the greatest lie that has been told so far, until the next. It is a lie built on five myths that the government has been moving in the past few months. The first myth is that the assessment was delayed, because the government negotiated hard, that today's agreement is better than the one that might have been closed down by last autumn. The truth is, the negotiation for the second assessment has evolved into another debacle of the government. The institutions took not only what was foreseen in the original package, but also everything planned to be done during the months of delays. But they also took the reduction in tax and pensions, which did not exist at the table last autumn. As long as the government was discussing rather than ruling, the economy went worse. The Commission has said so the other day, which is singing down its forecasts of growth, debt and unemployment. The Ministry of Finance said so, which downloaded the growth estimates from 2.7% to 1.8%, confirming that the delay in the agreement cost the economy EUR 2 billion for the first months of 2017 alone. The second myth is that the agreement was delayed in order to get a greater relief in the service of public debt, relief - to recall - that the institutions had taken back after the disastrous first half of 2015. The German Minister for Finance has already made it clear that debt measures will be discussed after the end of the programme, i.e. after the summer of 2018. Just a few days ago, Mr Tsakalotos admitted that the draft measure does not contain any explicit and clear predictions that the measures will not be implemented if there is a solution to the debt. At the same time, the air is our entrance to the Quantitative Relaxation Program. The government put before the paper of the high primary surplus, saying that such a surplus can also be maintained in the coming years, so no further preventive measures are needed after 2018. Another myth and him, the third. First of all, we all know what this surplus is primarily due to. Everything has been over-taxed. Only a small part of the EUR 1.7 billion that the government had taken for this purpose has gone to public debt to private individuals. Since we will have a similar surplus over the next few years, since Mr. Tsipras says he achieved in 2016 eight times the primary surplus of what he wanted, why does he not return a small part of the excess to give a breath to the society that is being tested? That was New Democracy's costly proposal. Why does he not fund all the positions at nursery stations from now on? Why doesn't it reduce HISBIA by 20%? Why doesn't he abolish the tax on wine? We nevertheless welcome the adoption of our proposal to reduce VAT on agricultural supplies, which will alleviate farmers' costs of production. However, ladies and gentlemen, there are two other myths, which really exceed every limit of political hardship: 'We will not legislate a single euro in addition to what the agreement provides for, and much more than 2019,' the Prime Minister said, and it brings in 4,9 billion euros by 2021, which will bear new burdens on all our Greek citizens and especially our weakest fellow citizens: a reduction in main and supplementary pensions, a reduction in tax, a reduction in special wages, a new increase in insurance contributions for a million four hundred thousand free professionals and farmers, which will reach 28%, cuts in allowances such as the unemployment allowance and the heating allowance, tens of others, which are supposed to be incorporated as expenditure in the social solidarity allowance. I come to the fifth and largest myth, which is the great countermeasures. It is not true that countermeasures will be applied automatically if we catch the primary surplus targets. The countermeasures will start to apply if it is found that the surplus exceeds 3.7% of GDP and for as long as the rate of overrun allows, after of course the International Monetary Fund and the other institutions agree. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. To implement positive measures in full, there must be a primary surplus of 5.6% with 5.7% of GDP, a surplus of over 10 billion euros per year. Does anyone really think that it is possible to achieve such a size when the Prime Minister himself admitted that it was impossible? As long as some colleagues are trying to convince us otherwise, countermeasures as a package are not going to be implemented. Honestly I wonder how much of the public's intelligence is offended when their government gets a loaf of bread with the promise to return them some crumbs once.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u311	Put a perfect one, Mr. Yoyaka.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u312	I shall conclude, Mr President. In these myths, ladies and gentlemen, the greatest political fraud of coexistence has been founded. A fourth substantial memorandum, without funding, without countermeasures, without debt relief. Well, in this deception New Democracy does not give. The Greeks have paid a heavy price for the stay of SYRIZA coexistence in power. They can't pay any more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u313	Now Mr Pafilis will be given the floor. Mr. Pafile, do you agree that Mr. Petropoulos should be preceded, why does he have an obligation?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u314	No, Mr President, it can't be.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u315	If I tell you, you'd agree to go where he has to go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u316	I have a duty, Mr President. It's the third time programming's changed. Let's get back to me later. Minister, with all due respect, but it can't be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u317	Then, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u318	Since we are talking about the surplus and you have dimed the world and the government and the Civic Opposition, I will tell you that one is certain surplus, the anger of the Greek people, the government and you who are mocking him, you are playing the theatre, which is all your servants of popular interests. Four days of acuity, an argument, which goes beyond every limit many times, reaching the political courage, literally anyone, so as not to blame you, Mr Voridis. Is she new? Oh, no! We'll say it again, because repetition is the mother of learning. As the PASOK and the New Democracy converged exactly in the same strategy, because they had differences, both the fight for the darkness and the light became steep. They even heard thicker things than they sound right now. We've got a repetition. [[At this point, speaking by MP Athanasios Pafilis, the Member of the New Democracy Mr Konstantinos Koukodemos presents his speech in writing in the minutes, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The circumstances have changed. It is not that they changed, as the Vice-President of the Government said, because what the sovereign parties could not imagine in previous years, namely that the Left came and threatens the system. It's just that Manolius changed, that is, PASOK, and he put on his clothes differently, that is, SYRIZA. That's exactly what happened these years. That is precisely because it is the same strategy, which is why there is this great conflict. We say that confrontation is callous, because it is not about the people's interests, but about who best serves capitalist development, of course within the framework of the European Union, which is prologue, because it is the European Union of the peoples, as you were all saying. It is the European Union that literally breaks all the peoples of the world and which all of you, all of you, worshipped in the European Union and in the capitalist development path, are fighting for who will best serve this policy. Many of our speakers and our rapporteur have developed them. The Secretary-General of our party will also speak. What is extremely challenging and I would like to stand by is that the ministers - Mr Tsakalotos and others - but also the SYRIZA MPs are constantly repeating - not to say, without shame - 'we are another thing', 'we have come here and serve the popular strata, the interests of the working class, unlike New Democracy and the PASOK'. Is that true? Where is it determined? Is it defined by the blessing of the Holy Spirit or by the fact that the SYRIZA Government says "I represent the interests of the working class"? Yes, Mr. Madice, in an emotional speech, said we were on a boat. We agree. So find out what the boat is along the way and see what interests the SYRIZA government serves. You dare talk about people's interests when in 2017, after twenty-three reductions in pensions, give the gift shot and cut them! After twenty-three reductions, you come and you cut more! Basically, you embody - the Katrugalou bill - the character of social security. You are converting the pension to benefits and so on. Is this a service to the interests of the people's classes, of the working class? Because retired people in their overwhelming majority are the distractions of the working class. Is this an exaggeration? How much do you cut? By 2021, in addition to what you cut - and you cut the rest of you, who are now on the tiles for people's interests - you cut EUR 8.28 billion, yes or no? Plus - not to say "plus" in genuine Greek - the application of the Katorugalos bill, which means EUR 16.4 billion. Do we understand the number? And you're telling us he serves people's interests? Is it right, Mr. Chakaloto, or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u319	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u320	Would you like me to download EUR 2 billion and give it to you? Everyone says what they want in here. No problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u321	Oh, no. Let's find it, let's sit down and find it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u322	All right, put the computer on. But people know. When every retired person goes to the fund, he knows what's going on. You talk about people's interests, when you steal tax-free, and when the tax-free, which will be paid by the one who gets four and five hundred, you steal 1,92 in 2020 and 2.1 billion in 2021. Do you serve the people's interests? Don't tell us you're the working class party. Shall we continue? Really, you wonder how these people will live? Do you dare and say that you are serving their interests when you are cutting down the benefits? Do you get there? Such anesthesia? Previous ones started. How do you say it when you break up with the small self-employed - because for the big people we'll talk about it later - and when you shrink all the social costs? Don't tell anyone you're raising them, people know. She's going to the hospitals, she's going here, she's going there. In addition to interventions, individual measures, etc., does the overall see when? In 2017. What interests, then, do SYRIZA - ANEL Government and previous governments serve? But now we are talking about the new agreement, the new memorandum. Let's see, who wants to abolish the Sunday holiday? Traders, workers? Oh, no. Who wants the privatisation of energy even more? Who wants to sell the D.C.D.? The workers, the Greek people? Who wants electronic auctions for both red loans and debts - listen - over 500 euros for tax and insurance funds? Who wants these? The workers? They want them? That's what you signed. Who wants to reduce corporate taxation from 29% to 26%? The worker? So who are they asking for all this? Who are calling for an increase in the Public Investment Programme to finance and support business groups? The workers? Who wants these programmes that you offer free meat - I will say it this way - from the taxation of the Greek people? Who are you subsidising? You're not subsidising businessmen to recruit? It's just math. Instead of paying four hundred, they'll pay two hundred or three hundred. Who wants all this? Isn't that all the capital requirements? That's what you vote on, isn't it? So what popular interests do you serve? So who is calling for the release of redundancies? Who's been asking for the lockout for many years that you've put from the window into the deal? Who asks for the trade unions' redundancies and for the change in the institutional framework as a whole so that, together with everything else, the trade union movement can break or prevent - why will it not succeed? Who's asking for this? The popular mattresses? Oh, no. The capital's asking for it. Blood asks, death asks, slavery asks. All the previous years, New Democracy and PASOK have started them fast and you are now finishing them. So what are you doing? You are fulfilling exactly the opposite interests you call for. You make fun of the Greek people and pretend you defend him. Who says "bravo", Mr. Chakaloto? Have you heard any trade unions shouting 'honestly the government's policy, which will give us the countermeasures!' Find us someone, unless you put anyone on the side. There's no one to say it. They said the same to the previous ones, of course. Who says "bravo" to you? The BSE, Diaselblum, the "kicks", the scratches, the people's blood. That's what you told them. They congratulate you. Rather, they must have suicidal tendencies if your own policy is true. But the exact opposite is the case, they're happy. They're bored with the lads, and you're dancing on the beat. That's the story. You say, 'Okay, but we come out of the memoranda and the committee'. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. What exactly do you and you mean? That you're going to abolish the six hundred Memorandum Laws? Is that what you mean, saying we're getting out of the memoirs? Say it. Who dares to say it to all of you? Since they're here, you're voting on both hands. You keep the previous ones and you put on new ones. You say: 'We are getting out of the commission'. Okay, are you serious? Will you come out of the European Union's commission? If it's a picture and you're piling. Do you not know the European Union's commissioner? Do we have to repeat it? Semester, budget control and so on. Do you not know, as Karayannides, the SYRIZA rapporteur, the Maastricht agreement, which you then accused us of being late, because we said 'no'? Don't you know what all this means? You do not know the European Union's policy, which would change, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, and it would be better, but in two, three years, it is getting worse and worse, as we have said? So who are you laughing at? Yes, but, he says, "we'll bring growth." Mr. Haritsis, who I don't know if he's here, said something amazing. This has to be written in gold letters. He said that "the growth that we publish is socially and classically identified". We're totally in agreement. Is it cut to big capital measures, which he wants? Cheap labour force, industrial relations broken down, liberation of everything, privatization of everything and you've given it to them. Ninety-nine years! Really, Mr. Voridis, where were you so bold, would you remove them? Will you abolish the ninety-nine years? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Everyone spoke sixteen minutes. I have noted them, Mr President. Will you remove them? I didn't hear your Chief. I have repeatedly asked this question. Will you abolish the superstition for the nine nine years? Will you cancel?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u323	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u324	Say it. Tell Mr. Mitsotakis to come out and tell him. Will you abolish all the Memorandum Laws? No, of course not. What are you talking about? Would you cut your legs? It can't be done. The other story, which you've had for a long time, is the debt. We'll settle the debt. We say the people owe nothing. And all this SYRIZA's literature - and I am not saying about the New Democracy - is clearer - in the same direction, which says that the debt is one of the lams and, on the one hand, it cannot stand in kindergarten for those who are involved. Debt went from the scandalous reinforcement of business groups, from the war military expenditures, most of which are NATO and part of the Olympic Games. The people are not to blame for it. You say it's from the ribs. So, even if we leave that logic, will the debt be paid, Minister? They're gonna trim it with a brave haircut, 40%, 50%, 60%? For the offenders, as you were saying, terms and conditions that you would go to both the UN and elsewhere. Oh, no. What's gonna happen? Withdrawal. He's going back. The conditions will be improved. I mean, our kids won't pay for it, our grandchildren and grandchildren will pay for it. What for? Tell us, where do you write this facility, the postponement will even go to the popular mattresses? Will the pensions increase? Will wages increase? Will social funds be provided? Oh, no. It is a demand for business groups - and we have said so in both the development law and the previous debate on the previous memorandum - that the business groups should be used again to strengthen them again. And the people will be called again to pay. So in closing, we ask a basic question: Where, really, do you differ strategically? What does anyone say he is? Anyone can claim what they want here. Are you the same party? Oh, no. The parties are not the same. However, they are not judged by this, they are judged by what policy they are implementing. Now, then, the New Democracy and the PASOK are right. And they go out on the tiles. It's a big deal of your offer. You raised them very much. But why? What did Mr. Stavros say? He said there was another way. Who is it? Structural changes, privatization, new production model, competitiveness, export orientation of the economy, innovation. Are you saying anything different? Isn't that what SYRIZA does? Because SYRIZA makes it faster and passed it, so far, with fewer reactions, and has delusionals that this will continue, get out on the tiles. I'm telling you, she sent you to unemployment. You try all these tons to show that you are the best defenders of this system and capitalist development. Because you are so, really, the years of crisis, from whom did you, New Democracy and PASOK get them? Who were you literally scratching? How many times did you cut pensions and wages? How did you dismantle working relationships? Didn't you do all this? Now, what's got into you? The pain? Because SYRIZA's making progress? Why didn't you move on? Because that's the direction. The thing is who's got the government chair. This is the great fight, which is not about the Greek people, nor is it going to pay attention to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u325	Finish it, Mr. Paphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u326	I'll be done in a minute. So in Mr. Mada's question, what boat we're on, in your dream you might step wherever you want, but in reality you're on the boat of capitalist barbarism, of the barbaric capitalism you serve consistently, of the interests of capital and do not save the supposed countermeasures. Why don't you give me one grand, and I'll share you with you after a hundred. These are the so-called countermeasures. The greatest damage you do and do all these conversations, is that they entangle the people in the logic of the one-way, that there is no other solution. Science, technology take off, humanity has huge potential, etc., but there is no other solution. This is where you'll move. The smallest evil that always brings the biggest. Secondly, you are also calling for social participation. What's that? What do you want? Do the workers have to kill themselves? You've got delusional. No matter how hard things are, there's hope. And hope is not to those who become better managers than the traditionals of a barbaric system. It is in the great struggles that we welcome, and which, despite the difficulties, the conditions, the frustration, the fatalism, a world rises.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u327	And by greeting you to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u328	We call on this world that either voted SYRIZA or New Democracy, but classically crushed today, thicken the lines of the class labor movement, regroup, lift head and bow to overthrow this barbaric system. Those of you doctors who showed up to heal it, you finally died the people themselves. And if the people want to resurrect, they must break this system and make the doctors who offer it 'better recipes', 'better mixture', which is based on the poison against the people's interests.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u329	Finish it, Mr. Paphie. You said you'd finish it, not me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u330	We'll be in the front line, as always. And we weren't the left of the protest. We are communists - and consistently - and we say so. In the term "left" many, from Sultz, who said left, from PASOK and many others, gathered on the left. Now that things change a little, they're shifting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u331	Mr. Paphie, you've been lured from your ostrich. Put a perfect one on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u332	But there will be the great historical rehearsal, when the people come out - and they will - to the fore and take what they own, that is, the power, the means of production, the wealth they produce and fly to the margins of history of those who served, one way or another, their destruction.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u333	Minister, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u334	Mr Pafile, I have listened very carefully to what you have said and in my speech I will try to answer. But I just want to ask one question, because it will help me in my speech, but also in my personal record, when I retire. You said the big capital is constantly giving us credit. Who? Can you tell me any of the Greek big capital, some of the large bands, the media, some of the BSE, some of the industry? I'd like to record that because it's so rare that I'd like to have a report. The big capital in Greece, at least in the last two years, has fought rabies against the SYRIZA - ANEL government.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u335	Who? Sabbidis?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u336	Loser!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u337	Who? The gorgeous guy?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u338	Just look at the BSE announcements. See what Alpha Bank's financial notes were saying every month. All of these people haven't complimented me, let alone my government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u339	The Minister has the floor, Mr Petropoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u340	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u341	The rhetoric was the question, Mr. Palphie, or the question about the house. Take it that way.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u342	I asked. It wasn't a personal attack.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u343	Why did the previous ones answer? Mr. Petersburg, Minister, may I? Everyone's answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u344	Excuse me, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u345	Don't talk? They're waiting for the workers to meet them for a long time, and then you're going to make a statement that I didn't see them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u346	Minister, you have plenty of time. Mr. Chakalato, I forgot to say something. When you brought your first memorandum, you invoked Marx. Now that you brought in the second, you invoked Lenin.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u347	So I'm going in a good way.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u348	I don't suppose you'll invoke Stalin to the third. That's what I call charming. But it's deep. I imagine you understand that. You're a very intelligent, intelligent man. So I say that, as far as we are concerned, whether or not BSE supports you, we really read his announcements. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u349	And especially today's announcement!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u350	Stalin's going to get misunderstood. Mr. Petropoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u351	Thank you, Mr President. Now that Euclid has explained to the side of the New Democracy and Parliament the details, the reason for the development of my own arguments is to a large extent limited. I will, at least, confine myself to a brief reference to the consequences of social security which we have faced in recent years. Ladies and gentlemen, the public debate, and indeed at the highest institutional level in this House, must be characterised at least by the effort to speak the whole truths, and at least not to make any arguments, much more so if this preparation of arguments is made to support stressful political hypocrisy, party re-insurance, re-insurance on the part of Officerial Reconciliation, and indeed under conditions and in terms of programming awkwardness. Because during these two years of our government there was no structured programming reason. The government conflicts with the crisis that fuelled decades, a crisis that increased after 2009 until 2015. Our government is conflicting with the economic and social problems that these policies have caused over the years. These are problems that, gentlemen of the Officerate, you did not want to resolve, nor can you solve, but you cannot understand the value and size of the problems that are being accumulated to deal with these problems either. You do have an advantage. The consequences of your policy for the years 2015, 2016 and the current period of 2017 are missing, so our people cannot compare these consequences, which have not arisen - thankfully for the people and the country - because our policy has put an end to this collapse and has started to create the foundations for tackling another prospect for our country and our people. However, a situation which has brought about the risk of child poverty from birth to the age of 26.5%, the risk of poverty in the ages of 18 to sixty-five in 22.5%, those in unemployment face the risk of poverty that exceeds 44%, the risk of poverty among retired people is about 10.5%, is it possible in such circumstances, with non-existent resources, with limited means, for a government not to take the initiatives our government manifests? In what economic environment is all this happening? A fundamental rational management of funds that entered social security would lead from 1952 to 2000 at least to a cumulation of 100 billion euros which, with an average, expected and reasonable yield of 3%, would be at least one 25% of the insurance contributions paid by it, about 2% of GDP. So the policy we need to see, the reform of social security, which does not exist, has a long way to go. We have said so since the debate on No.4387. This really is achieved gradually. We have a better operation of the Single Social Security Agency, most effective. We have an increase in revenue in 2017, despite the vulgar titles that today saw the light of publicity in some newspapers, that there is a bomb on the foundations of EKKA, that there are no incomes, that the needs of insured people cannot be covered by the funds available. Let me just say that only from IKA, from the employees, had an increase of 12% of the receipts compared to last year, that is, about 413 million. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I conclude, Mr President, by saying that this is indeed a crucial moment for the country. And one would expect these hours of responsibility that the Qualified Opposition to deal with them in a different way, much more when invoking this responsibility it has to take over the country's governance. It is not so when Pierre Moscovici says that we will have a growth rate in 2017, 2.1% and in 2018, 2.9%, that this support does not exist in the government's effort, and at least that he invoke the same elements that he claims to be European Union officials, such as the Commissioner for Digital Policy, whom he criticised as representative of the New Democracy because he said good words about the country, that Greece's policy is actually developing at a good pace - more than 8% - in his policy. He was in fact fighting him, and he said: 'If you are not careful, let me tell you English'. We've had this kind of behavior, unfortunately. And I cannot understand how one of the five wise words of the German Ministry of Finance, Peter Bofinger, here in Greece, at the ECONOMIST conference, supports all the arguments of the Greek Government and the New Democracy, along with the PASOK - Democratic Co-responsibility, can do what it can to degrade these supports which the Greek Government has in a good way to the creditors to have debt reduction and another perspective for our country. At last, make a decision. If you really are responsible for ruling, you become responsible, in the opposition at least, to correct us and not to break the country down and you contribute to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u352	Mr. Karaoglu has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u353	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today is a day of joy. It is a day of joy, because we meet celebrityly in the House, celebrate the end of austerity, celebrate the exit from the crisis, celebrate the country's exit from the memoranda. Fortunately, the shameful e-mail by Mr Hardouvelis, which provided for measures of less than 1 billion, 980 million, and which provided for a clause of zero deficit in supplementary pensions, which in practice meant a slight reduction of 4% of supplementary pensions. Dullies and juurnades are heard at every corner of the Greek countryside. Soon we'll hear them out here in the Constitution. International markets are dancing at our pace. It was confirmed once again by Alexis Tsipras, who said in December 2014 by Heraklion that you are hard walnuts in SYRIZA. Obviously, ladies and gentlemen, I am joking because, unfortunately, the tale you made about the end of the memoirs has once again a bad outcome for both the country and the Greeks. You who would rip the memorials, you who would bore the debt, you who would reinstate the thirteenth pension, you who would pay a minimum wage of EUR 751, all you've achieved for two and a half years is taking measures to the measures of lenders, mowing the wages, pensions, dreams and expectations of a nation. The truth is, ladies and gentlemen, that you confess in the memorials and for many time you are trying to create the perfect lie. Let's remember some things, because history must teach. In 2014 you invented the famous Thessaloniki program with benefits to the Greek people of 12 billion. In 2015, while we were driven by your unresolved policy in the third memorandum and by measures of about 14.5 billion against Greek citizens, you again promised in September 2015 that you will implement not the third Memorandum, the inappropriate Tsipras - Kammenos Memorandum, but the parallel programme and now you are coming in 2017 and you are talking to us about countermeasures. You continue to rule with illusions and entangle yourself in the myths you are making yourself, which you cultivate yourself. You said "no house in the hands of a banker" and you come and vote to break the auctions and take place three times a week. You are being tied to "neither a new euro" and you are preparing to vote unregulatedly with both hands of €4.9 billion, thus raising the total account of the administration of Tsipras - Kammenos at EUR 14.2 billion. You argued that low pensions would not be cut and all those who have a personal difference indiscriminately, regardless of whether they are even the minimum pension for the former IKA of EUR 480. I remember the famous Karugalou statement saying that 'as long as the economy grows, pensions will increase'. However, although it is estimated that GDP will increase by 20% by reaching 211 billion in 2021, the bill makes it clear that there will be no increase in pensions. I also remember the Prime Minister's statement that no measures will be implemented without debt regulation. However, there is nowhere in the bill to vote on linking measures and debts. The ‘no debt-free measure’ became ‘retreat without measure’. With the fourth memorandum you have brought, the heaviest memorial of all and without funding, you are actually broadening austerity, robbing employees and pensioners, slaughtering special wages. These are measures of cruel austerity which you will be voting on shortly, ladies and gentlemen, and not benefits. Memorandum - Memorandum for each Greek and Greek Greece you will sign and not countermeasures, which are the "differences" of a very painful package of overtaxation measures. Just consider that in 2019, the main pensions will be reduced by EUR 2.2 billion, the subsidiary will be reduced by EUR 232 million, the taxes will be increased by EUR 1,92 billion, i.e. every household indiscriminately will lose about 3.5 thousand due to the reduction in tax. Consider that insurance contributions of about one and a half million free professionals and farmers will increase up to 61%. Because I heard Mr Petropoulou at the beginning of the week, who was succeeded in Stepa, saying that the imposition of measures is a matter of reading, I assure you that the bill is a disgrace to those who read it and anger to those who will be invited to pay it. It is embarrassing because it is attempting to redistribute national misery and anger because the entire Greeks have realised that you have no moral barrier to selling principles, values, ideals, in order to prolong your stay in power. In a short time you will be invited to vote in favour of the fourth memorandum. I could mention many similar examples of what this memorandum means, but I think it is more important to make it clear to everyone and to all, ladies and gentlemen, that it is time for individual responsibility. I am referring to all of you who are representing the 'abnormal virgins' of post-population. Apart from ministerial chairs and posts, there is the individual dignity of each other. There is the patronage, there is the blasphemy, a troubled people who others waited for from you, but you promised him and others saw. It goes without saying that we, the New Democracy, vote against both hands, as it goes without saying that the phrase of a minister of the current government - to rejoice with your Minister - "until 2019 who lives and who dies", reveals micropsy and party wrangling.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u354	You're short, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u355	I shall conclude, Mr President. Unlike you, we believe in another mixture of policies with fewer taxes, with reforms, with recovery of the economy through increased incomes. We believe in the power of private initiative and private investment. In short, we believe in Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u356	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, thirty-one students and students and three educational attendants of the Hellenic School of Volos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister has the floor, Mr. Andreas Xanthos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u357	Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that we are dealing with a difficult agreement, which is the result of a secondary compromise, a secondary compromise from the one that took place in 2015, but a compromise which, in our view, stabilises the functioning of the economy and the country and gives the visibility of a socially sustainable exit from the crisis. The investment scenario in political destabilisation, the 'left parenthesis', in the failure of the negotiation, has been squeezed down. In fact, this agreement was achieved in the most difficult and fluid period for all of Europe. The world knows very well and realizes that it is the result of pressures and blackmails and ideological obsessions on the part of lenders, but also of political intolerance towards a left-wing governance in a country of Europe. We have succeeded in this difficult period, which Europe is at a difficult crossroads, and the attitude towards the Greek issue to dismantle Europe's political forces. We have also achieved these political forces, which are generally together with a more democratic, social and solidarity Europe, to support the Greek Government, to support the effort to find a sustainable solution, and the conservative forces, the neoliberals, the forces of the European elites, which include the Acoustic Opposition, to oppose and ally with extreme neoliberal powers, such as the International Monetary Fund, in order to lull it out. I therefore believe that the first, fundamental and fundamental lie is that a better agreement could be reached under these circumstances, that we have done everything without winning anything, and that we are bringing in a new memorandum. It has been answered - I think - very thoroughly that this is a fundamental, structural lie, which is reproduced all these days and, in my view, makes all the past criticisms that are being made absolutely unreliable. So this is what we have achieved in this difficult situation. And of course, there is a crucial question, if this agreement on evaluation brings us closer to getting out of the crisis, from the Memorandum of Understanding, or deepens us, as you say, more into the recession, deepens us more into the productive deorganisation, deepens the crisis and thus perpetuates the vicious cycle of austerity measures. That is a crucial political question. In my view, the answer to this question will be given by the real economy and the real society. And the first one has already begun to give encouragement and, of course, society, despite pressure, despite disillusion, despite dissatisfaction, is aware of the need for political stability at this time, and this government is continuing its efforts with more honesty and more justice to apportion the burdens of this agreement. Also, this society - and this now proves to be popular - evaluates as important - the positive countermeasures which you are taking. The 65% of the citizens in a recent poll published does not say that they are "flying" or, of course, that they are unscrupulous. I will leave a little bit of the general political position, because I think that this multi-brand is largely wrong with the general references, because there are critical changes, especially in the field of health, which, in our view, have a positive and exotic character in the functioning of the system. There are two packages of measures and arrangements. One concerns centralisation of supplies, the creation of a new public body responsible for managing health supplies. Paul Paulakis mentioned this yesterday in committee very thoroughly, and I do not want to stand. The second package of changes relates to the political drug. This issue has not been raised in the debate, of course. Only references were made to the hearing of bodies from some involved in the health system and the market in medicinal products. We agree with a central finding that the Memorandum of Understanding has led to a dead end, that horizontal interventions and persistent price reduction policy, in particular generic and lately off-patent drugs, create distortions and does not address critical needs and priorities in this area. That is why we are committed that after the closure of the evaluation we will open up an organised, serious and structured discussion with lenders to change the architecture in this landscape. We've got proof now. We have measurable results. We have evidence. We can claim a different mix of pharmaceutical policy. However, what we do not accept is the criticism that says that these measures are also horizontal and collective types of intervention. That is not the case, ladies and gentlemen. Those who have little contact with the subject and who follow the health stuff know very well that for the first time during the memorial period structural measures are being promoted in the field of medicine. He's getting a double potion for redressing new innovative drugs. The first relates to certain countries where the new medicines are available and which compensate for them in Europe. The second - and more substantial - is that filtering with HTA criteria, with criteria, namely, evaluation of new pharmaceutical innovation, clinical effectiveness, therapeutic value added, non-existent treatment coverage and cost-effectiveness. Ladies and gentlemen, we are also taking a big step in an area in which there has been a total absence in the past few years. This is the area of negotiating sustainable and fair compensation prices for expensive medicines. The previous governments had never done anything about it. They voted because the troika had imposed it on them, a law in 2013, which was never implemented. We started last year, and with the arrangements of the Multifibre Arrangement, we shield the negotiation process, the EEA negotiating committee, institutional and legal. Already this committee has reached a package of measures on hepatitis C medicines - positive and we will complete it in the next few weeks. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Allow me, Mr President, to have your tolerance, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u358	Nothing is removed from the severity of your intervention if you are shortened.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u359	I would also like to say that in this area - and these of course are not said anywhere, they are not raised by the media, they are systematically degraded - it has played a central role in an attempt to have transnational cooperation and joint negotiation with other countries, first of all the European South, but also with other countries in Europe, in order to achieve fair prices, sustainable for the health system, which, however, will ensure citizens' access to the necessary medicines. A few days ago in Malta there was a declaration by six countries of the European South, our country, Cyprus, Malta, Italy, Spain and Portugal, following an initiative we had taken last year. It was a very positive development. We have sent the signal to the pharmaceutical industry that it cannot compress the uncovered needs of Europe's citizens, that the current system is unsustainable - all countries and even developed ones say - that pharmaceutical innovation produces additional costs on an annual basis of 7.5% to 10% of the pharmaceutical expenditure and that in order to make it manages a reduction in the prices of compensation, namely a reduction in the profits of the pharmaceutical industry. Political priorities and social needs cannot fit into the'solid corse' which imposes the profit of large multinational companies. That is why we put a reinforced discount through this bill on multinational companies that import new innovative and usually expensive medicines. There is also a fairer distribution of the costs incurred in the pharmaceutical companies due to overrun, the consolidated and fairer than in the past rebate volume, of a discount based on sales volumes. In other words, large-selling companies are being charged more. Of course we attach great importance to strengthening rationalisation, the integration of therapeutic and diagnostic protocols, the upgrading of e-government and the control of prescription behaviour and doctors and the attitude of pharmacists in the necessary penetration of generics into the drug market. Of course there are the measures on unprescribed medicines, which we are moving towards an intervention that, in our view, makes us manageable from 2014 to 2014, abolish the valuation of unprescribed medicines from 1-1-2017. It is obvious that pharmaceutical companies are tending to increase prices. We therefore put a grid of interventions which will make this upward trend controlled, manageable and unsatisfactory as far as possible for citizens. Of course, in the countermeasures, there are interventions to reduce by 50% or even zero participation on the basis of citizens' income criteria in the pharmaceutical expenditure. Especially in the health sector, which we are implementing a political plan for universal coverage of the population with priority in public care, decent and human-centered care, support for the weak, we consider that we have given very specific examples of writing. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, because there is a lot of talk about social sensitivity, we want to say that social sensitivity is not a personal issue. It is not a matter of personal property, it is not a matter of education, cultivation or mercy. Social sensitivity and care for the weak is a political issue. It has to do with the valued, cosmopolitan, ideological, programmatic origins of everyone. The Left, in fact, is the force that in these starting points and baggage has always been the dominant priority in supporting weak ones and reducing inequality. Ladies and gentlemen, you cannot reduce the social, economic and health inequalities in that country if you do not believe in equality, if you do not have your aim of social liberation, of changing society, of removing the exploitation of the weak. I therefore think that, with the samples of writing that we have given, both for the humanitarian crisis and for the social income of solidarity, and above all for the insecure citizens, as we have said many times, we are, in fact, proving - and not in the words - which political forces have, in fact, in their political priority to address these inequalities.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u360	All right, Minister, put a perfect one.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u361	I shall conclude, Mr President. There is also a criticism that we have sold our soul to stay in the chairs. We want to be very clear: we, ladies and gentlemen, did not pursue, or get drunk, nor inherited the parliamentary and ministerial chairs. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We were an organic element of the struggle and the agony of society. Thanks to this relationship of confidence of years we have been in these benches. Obviously, we believe that governance and power are a means and not a selfish end in themselves, and we will continue with sensitivity, with dignity in these difficult conditions to strive for the best possible for the world of work, for the weak in this country, to prove that the Left can be useful in the phase of the crisis, in the phase that the weak need to support, but also in the stage of development and the fairer distribution of the wealth produced. That is where we will concentrate in the next period and we believe that developments will be justifiable to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u362	Before I give Mr Cameroon the floor, Mr. Haritsis has the floor for a legal intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u363	Thank you, Mr President. We have legal intervention in Articles 51 and 53. This is simply a word recast to make it quite clear that the selection system process of heads of units of the ESDP is being set up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u364	Please, the proposed legislative improvement to be distributed to my fellow Members. Here, Mr. Kamaterre, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u365	Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to turn to the opposition, but I am going to turn to the government and to Mr Tsakaloto personally. Minister, I disagree with you. I disagree with the narrative 'bad - good measures', as you usually say, 'positive - negative'. I was much more sad when I saw your attempt at confrontation with Mr Voridis trying to convince him about the numbers. Don't you realize that's how we play their game? When we say positive and negative, good and bad measures at all times, Minister, we must always mention the point of reference in relation to what. What is good for us, is it also good for the Opposition? What's negative on us is negative on the Opposition? You're flouting when you're trying to convince them. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Whatever's good for the employees, is it good for the malls? Of course, the New Democracy has a hypocritical role. We have been saying what we believe in, say what we are trying to do, say what we want, say when we cannot do it because we cannot do it, when we have to do something that we do not like, we say it. The New Democracy, however, and the Opposition, more extensively - the Occupation - is in hypocrisy and has to be hypocrisy. So, what do you think? Are we wasting our time here trying to convince us that we have lost our souls and that we are not left here trying to support labour relations? Who? Mr. M. M. M. Voridis? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We don't know what they want? We do not know that it is in favour of the dissolution of industrial relations, in favour of the creation of such a landscape - these are their arguments and their ideology - to attract investment? Hypocrisy in both measures and countermeasures. What to start with? He was before the Minister, Mr. Xanthos. So, what do you think? That they are in line with the system our ministers are making for medicine, so that there is a central commission provided for in the bill? What do you think? Do they agree? If they agreed, how would the various CICPs have been able to give these millions so far, and how would the various major doctors be able to sign and account for the drugs? How would they even have been able to sell the Nynn Hospital, as they sold it? What do you think? That when we say free care, when we say health support, they agree? If we know what they did and what they want. They want private hospitals, they want private health. They want to degrade hospitals. So what measures are positive for them and what for us? In terms of development - here are the ministers - where did they give the funds from development laws? What is their perception of development? The Minister told us yesterday that 4% of investors received 50% of subsidies. So, is it possible to agree? Is it possible to convince them? But do they call that? They're not. They're acting. They cry about jobs, they cry about growth, they cry about pensions and wages. Is it possible to agree on wages? As for jobs, they also want wages low to attract investment. I will now stop the examples. Minister, leave them with their hypocrisy. But we have to uncover them every day. If we are just trying to convince them of the positive, the negative, the 3.5%, the 4.5%, people are confused and they don't understand. We must speak with the world, with the people who can no longer stand. Tomorrow we have to make sure all these numbers get in his life. And they're already going to some extent, but they're going to get in when young people find themselves working longer, when we have better care, better education and better schools, and when, in any case, they see that their lives are improving. So we have to convince ourselves, because otherwise we are playing their game, which they confess to here by saying 'all of you are the same'. We're the same. In fact, they say they're better managers or there's no other way. They say: "Here we are, the Left, we have seen it, it has failed" and, therefore, the only way is theirs. In this respect, in the short time I have allowed me to refer a referral back to the JRC. I've never talked about the JRC in public, because that's where I grew up and learned. But I can't. So, who are we helping on what we're saying now, that is, positive and negative, when we smack them all and when the only clean KIC is when the only solution is when the people take power? When is that? What party? With the JRC? No alliances? You tell me, we're not having alliances in this House, but in society. But, in society alone, it is, with the isolation of the social struggles. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. So my proposal, Minister, is not to let them convince the world and to go to the world the view that there is no other way. We have to show them our way all the time. Let this be one of the last steps, the last step, until we find the turn, until we get to the turn of our own way.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u366	The Minister, Mr. Xanthos, has the floor to testify to a legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u367	Mr President, we are putting forward a legislative improvement. These are dramatic changes - they do not change anything - in three articles in the bill. I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u368	Good. I would ask that the legislative improvement be distributed to colleagues. Minister Spirtzis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u369	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, while listening all this time to the New Democracy and its companions, we are simply following the same performance entitled 'Don't let the truth ruin a nice and well-deserved story'. The well-known history of the New Democracy, ladies and gentlemen, has been and is the sustainable debt and a specific neoliberalism of your own inspiration that results from healthy productive forces. It's a very well-deserved story, which has the country in commission until 2031. That is why you do not have a single communication line. We have been following for many months the recommendations of the Half-Population Officer, to complete the second assessment as - as. Tomorrow we were told. We have followed the other half of the Civic Opposition to declare that we must not complete and go to elections. Today you are accusing us in the same speeches that half of us are incompetent and do not do what the spectacular government of Samaras - Venizelos and the other half of us are not negotiating, going to a draft law that is the fourth memorandum, which has our own seal and vote by clicking on our principles. And the New Democracy disagrees with, says, the free traders whose wages, wages and pensioners are being cut off. So let's see if he has our signature and why the New Democracy actually disagrees. Let's see why you're reacting. For many months now, along with the legacy you have left us, a country in comitology, a society really broken up and a degraded public sector structure and staffing, we have also received the work that you have left in the middle of, the complete degradation of healthy productive forces, the free professionals, the middle-class and the weak social strata of society. You have hit the core in previous years, the institutional framework for the exercise of the professions. You hit the institutional framework of the engineer, the lawyer, the doctor, the car driver, the transporter. You've restructured the public sector. You did not apply this policy because you were imposed on you by some people, but because you believed it. Following on from those magical studies by IOBE, when Mr Stournaras was responsible, which predicted a 15% growth from the liberalisation of professions, you upgraded Mr Stournaras, made your Minister and instructed advisers - wise advisers - studies in a specific political direction, the complete deregulation of professions, the complete degradation of social conquests, the marginalisation of large, social and professional groups. Your goal is your neoliberal dogmatism, the concentration and the donation of the activity of the middle class and the workers to big companies of your choice. In this context we have received also studies and commitments of your own that completely absorbed the scientists, the country's technical potential, the free traders, the motorists, the transporters. We have received the scientific potential of the country, either in the hostel or in the marginalization. At the same time, you have forgotten supposedly, spaces of waste, corruption and great tax evasion. "You've forgotten" "TAX" and forgotten "UBER". "You've forgotten" engineers, but you've forgotten the immunity of big companies and black work with blocks. Nowadays, you're defending the blocks. You're thinking about the black job going on. It's insane. "You know" public transport in Athens, with redundancies, circuits, with dismantling, but forget and renew seventy years of OSH's scandalous contract in Thessaloniki. In this context we received in 2015 a hundred and eighty-three points which decentralized the technical professions. He's here, he's from the wise consultancy companies to give it to you, even though you have it. You have them both institutionally and by your friends and they did these studies. It is a hundred and eighty-three points in the same logic, in the same direction as the Hatzidakis law on public procurement, which fortunately never applied. In the first phase of the negotiations, there have been eighty-nine points, and we have now reached a point, with an article in place for a hundred and eighty-three, because, as you say, we have not negotiated, which is in a very positive way about the registers of scientists, companies and scientific services. This is a real reform that will stop the virtual staffing and experience that will reduce bureaucracy. A reform that will finally enter all the technical professions, all our craftsmen, who will put an end to black work, false experience, corruption and delays, who will finally register the well-known consultancy companies that you used for every disease. Your goal, gentlemen, of the New Democracy, was that in the supposed logic of opening up the professions there should be no registrars, since you had taken care of the services before they were deported and subordinated. Let me tell you what we received. The General Secretariat of Infrastructure Registers, which are all public works, where the technical and financial capacity of the companies and the experience of natural persons is assessed, does not serve a single engineer. Not even one! The principal is a theologian. [[Laughing - applause from the wing of SYRIZA]] Oh, for fuck's sake! And you're coming today and you're wondering why we've made provision for the registers of natural persons, our scientists, that the Directorate-General for Infrastructure may place them in scientific bodies. Not to some general public bodies, to scientific bodies such as the TEI that the president is yours, to GEOTE where the president is yours, to the lawyers, to the Chamber of Economics. These are legal persons governed by public law, they are neither trade unions nor have any other direction as you wish. Of course, I understand that these bodies and their members from New Democracy did not want there to be, neither scientific chambers nor anything else. You fought them with rabies, but we won't follow you. You abolished their resources, attempted to abolish their role, sent scientists abroad. This institutional deception ended with your failed policy. And since you concentrate only on the economic parts of the draft law and have all this to do with contributions to the insurance funds, you are not giving us an answer, since we are talking about scientists and their contributions. Can you tell us if you've spent 1.5 billion on the engineers' fund? Can you tell us, at last, when you ran away from it, when you got that money, $1.5 billion, did you draw bonds or bills? To get an answer to what you did then and the Minister of Finance, who was Mr. Stournaras and then was Mr. Venizelos, while Mr. Stournaras became the Governor of the Bank of Greece. Let us know at some point what he got tired of. That's what you delivered us. Other issues that will be afflicted have been agreed in this negotiations. They'll be sad because it was your design. In this second assessment it was agreed that the rest of the regional airports that the government of Samara - Venizelou had put in the TEAD are leaving the TEAD. Neither will they be sold nor closed, as your governments had planned. And that does not only mean that we sell some airports, as you committed yourself to the fourteen, it means that there will be projects at airports that will stay in public control and not like the hundreds of millions of projects that you did at airports and then you sold them, such as the airport of Thessaloniki, Chania, Skiathos and much more. They will neither be sold nor closed, as you anticipated. In this second assessment it was agreed that the "Egnatia S.A." and GEOSE will remain outside the EDAS to continue their construction and development work. In this second assessment, it was finally agreed to be able to move to electronic analogue tolls in Egnatia and across Greece within a specific timetable. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] This second assessment did not mean imposing the arrangements of your favorite 'UBER', to stop car drivers, to have incomplete tax evasion and no control. These articles concern the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure. That was, in your opinion, the unacceptable delay. The direction of the government and Prime Minister to save society, the poor and the middle sections of the destructive policy you had designed, implemented and fortunately, you did not complete and will not be given the opportunity by the Greek people to complete for the next few years, was your accusation of the so-called delay. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, please show tolerance and sympathy to the Members of the New Democracy. They attempted left-hand parentheses. They didn't come out. They attempted in September, by all means, their return to power. They didn't come out. They attempt daily sabotage with their party armies across the public sector. It's not coming out. They are trying every day with their systemic media to reap the government and the work we do. It's not coming out. They have invested in not completing the second assessment. They didn't come out. They met and allied with the devil, with Siomple, their MEPs, and even European institutions, because, allegedly, they tolerated the Greek Government. They didn't come out. Please understand them all and if you can tolerate them, perhaps their detestable behaviors. I suggest that you repeat the fiasco of the works of the inauguration and the new development infrastructure we are doing. We will also ask citizens not to believe their eyes, but you. The country, you know, and you don't like it, will come out of the commission with this government, with the final settlement of the debt, so that our society and our country can come out of the adventure you have put into it. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Mr President, I would also like to put forward some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u370	I would ask that the proposed legislative improvements be distributed to fellow Members. Mr Katsaniotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u371	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would not be able to ask the Minister whether he would vote for the entire bill with pleasure or whether some piece of the bill would have a problem with voting on it. In any case, I understand and live in what he has said in the past. On the other hand, what I've never done, and I won't do it now, will be if I talk personally about anyone, nor about soul pains of the past. What you will allow me is if I use the Step today, not to talk to SYRIZA colleagues, but to the citizens who listen to us out there. SYRIZA colleagues have made their choice. I'm not gonna talk about their choices, I'm not allowed. I will say, however, that the world out there is aware of what is happening. Your words are against the reality of living. Today, with what will be voted on, there is also the presumption of the death of hope promised by some to the Greek people. You are actually coming here today and you are saying that it is right that the EUR 1,000 should be cut off. You also say that it is fair to tax the salary of EUR 500.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u372	It's not fair. Everyone said it was painful measures.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u373	It's fair. But you were saying fair before, Minister. And all this because? Because the Minister comes and tells us that linear we can see the surplus. Since, in 2018, I catch 3.5%, then I will catch it in 2019, as if it were a natural phenomenon, as every autumn it rains. And he knows very well that there are too many parameters that will define where the surplus will go next year. But he won't tell us anything else. He told us that if it's plus 1% of the surplus, we'll do countermeasures. What will these countermeasures be? Have we said it's going to be some part of it? No, no one knows. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, what we are doing is plunging society into despair with new austerity. That's what we're doing. And you know that, in fact, since tomorrow, this will begin to show another picture of the world we all live in. It's not just you living in this world. It is not just the Left that has the privilege of moving into society. The Left does not have the privilege of representing society. And the Minister has left, but he should have heard that he is not our president of GEOTE. He's elected by geotechnics. He's not our president of the TEI. He is elected by the technical world of Greece. There are no 'ours' and 'ours'. You must understand that at some point. What you also have to understand is that today instead of enjoying or feeling proud that you are really voting for something good, I would expect to see a reflection. This is a very difficult time for society and citizens. You're responsible. You're the government. And I'd like to say one thing. I listen constantly, Mr Theonas, an excuse. "You speak, for you have cut pensions 11 times?" What does that mean? Does it justify your pension cut? In a society that's been cut eleven times, the twelfth time is good, why is it left? You must at some point assume your responsibilities. You promised everything to everyone, and now we're paying the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u374	And we're managing time, Mr. Katsaniotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u375	Mr President, praise Mr Katsaniotis. It does not eat the Members' time. Praise good deeds!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u376	I already praised him. Didn't you hear? A lot of people here listen to themselves. Didn't you hear?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u377	What's going on here now? All Parliamentary Representatives speak. When will the MPs speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u378	And Mr. Kammenos will facilitate the process with the time economy. Here, Mr. Kammenos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u379	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have followed all the speeches or rather enough because I think I have never seen so many speakers in the two years of my parliamentary capacity. It is very interesting to monitor everyone's speeches, arguments and counter-problems. I will now be caught by Mr Katsaniotis - who is extremely sympathetic to me - who said that he has not seen the measures and the countermeasures. I have them here in front of me. I will also make my comment, which is also a little bitter, but also a real one. This government did this. First, bring the list of countermeasures, with positive measures, one, one. Second, to cost it. Thirdly, to agree to three institutions and not to itself in the mirror, saying 'I like to take the surplus to 2%'. This is not the way to do it, to agree with myself and to sell it to my voter. It can't be that way, be careful. It's a blessing. Looking in the mirror, I say I want 2% surplus, and I agree with myself, and everyone thinks I've agreed with everyone, it's a falsification of truth and reality. So we've done this. For the first time any positive measure has been costed. He agreed with the partners in a difficult negotiation. A sum of 4,039 is paid. I'm not talking about the rest 7.5. They'll be costed, and they'll also be entered into special codes. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, please, because I am not coordinating. All this, unlike everything we have seen from New Democracy so far from the IGC, which is speaking vaguely, has not cost a record and has not agreed with anyone, beyond itself and its parliamentary group, what it has told us. You told us about a 30% reduction and about 850 million in two years' time. Who did you agree to that? Who said yes? Where did you find equivalent? I've been to the other page. I've got everything here. Where's the equivalent found? We have said exactly what we are going to vote on next year. Everything agreed. We said ENVY 420 million in two years agreed. What's more power? The agreed or the dream of summer policy night or what we say in the mirror to find them with ourselves, sell them internally? What's more power? And I ask the Greek people, who are watching us. What's agreed! If it is formally agreed with institutions and the New Democracy on a paper signed, we will say that this is better. But so far we have no better than 420 million in two years. And I come to reduce the tax on businesses. We have a financial result of 731 million and the New Democracy said 500 million and had not agreed with anyone. We agreed on this in a tough negotiation. We are reducing him and it is clearly a development measure, because the gain that will not be taxed on businesses, will be reinvested and will give new jobs. So why not vote for this measure? I do not understand the conscience of 'no'. And I'm talking about the urban party of New Democracy, or if you want PASOK or the river, who see the Greek society more urbanly. I am not talking about the Communist Party of Greece which has another perception, respectable in everything. But why not vote for a measure which is our ideological idea, such as a reduction in corporate taxation, for whatever reason? Secondly, you will have to support the national effort for the debt. I don't see you doing anything. You told us it was viable until beforehand. We are fighting and saying all the years that it is not sustainable. You are now telling us that it is not sustainable, but I do not see you putting your back on either the European People's Party or within the House or anywhere. Why you have not already come out to say or at night I wish Mr.Mitsotakis would say "Yes, we will together go claim the debt of 2012, what we took, in the mid-January and even the best we can find and the best the government can achieve." Because debt is something that will normalise our payments and remain more money to invest in the Greek people. I'll wait till he gets back. Thirdly, this government brought the extrajudicial. The previous governments have destroyed the whole economy. We were handed over 83 billion red loans and one million unemployed, nine hundred and eighty thousand unemployed to the truth, broken funds and broken banks. Watch out now: they did not vote for the extrajudicial compromise. Today in an article we say that the improperness of the party grant goes from 40% to 10%. What does that mean? That of EUR 100,000, 100,000 will be inappropriate for use for operational needs in each party and the remaining 90% if you owe it, is confiscated. Where it was 40%, they lose 30%. And I ask you, won't you vote for that? So your party and PASOK, which owe 420 million - well or badly owe them - are you going to tell the Greek people? I didn't vote for the extrajudicial, so I don't accept the procedure brought by SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks and you're going where? Closed up? In liquidation? Will you close the party? With 10% you don't go out. You're not dating 40 percent. You don't want an extrajudicial. So what are you going to say to the Greek people? That we'll have to see 150 million and 170 million each until the snow goes off, as the people say? It won't erase the snow. You should accept something good that this government does and does it for you. I said that as Vice-President of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. We will accept any proposal you will put forward to regulate your debts, to mow, to lengthen, to drop interest rates, that is to say, for all companies. I do not see you moving, but only sterile to say 'no'. A piece I noticed and I must mention is for PPC. Who destroyed PPC? Are we here to do doses? Did we come to give power to the world you cut? Didn't Mr. Venizelos come in the summer with the EMCDDA and people died in the manganese? And he put my property tax on forced collection of PPC's tax? That's how people started not paying, because they didn't have the money. And he was charged to PPC's account with the end of real estate, with EUR 1.7 billion remaining unresolved because of Mr Venizelos' decision, who had said two months ago that it is not collectible. Two months later he changed his mind and made him a collector and bankrupt PPC. So it's our fault that we save PPC? You went bankrupt with PPC and you should vote for the positive measures. We both heard about PSI and pilgrimages. I'll make a comment again. The insurance funds lost 13 billion from the PSI. What measures are we supposed to take in 2019 - why are we going to be a government again and we are going to implement them for the better - for the 1.8 billion? Can I do you actions? Do you know how many times the 1.8 billion in the 13 billion that you've spent? Seven! In other words, what you have done with the funds - which we are piling for you now - is seven years for 1.8 billion meters. If we had it in the fund, we wouldn't have had to take measures for 1.8 billion. We wouldn't just have cash. Look out! As well as the development that should come, plus the 8.5 billion lost by a million young unemployed, from the contributions. If the contributions come along with the non-cutting, we would not have to take measures. Why are we taking measures for the insurance? Because it's not coming out. Why isn't he coming out? Someone came and said, "Children, don't you go out?" But it doesn't come out because we don't have any contributions. Is it our fault that we have no contributions and our own government? Oh, no. I said 83 billion red loans again, you gave us employers' contributions, TEBE, owners, private sector employees plus the haircut in the bank and in the insurance, so that the fund does not come out. So with the PSI we could have saved 1.8 billion for 7.2 years and not take measures. This government wants jobs. It has a social profile, a social person, because we are all from popular backgrounds and we have come from the base, we have come from the world. We know where the world hurts, and we know what's going on. We don't want to offer rations and benefits. I mean, I'm not a cashier, I'm a job. We're necessarily doing these kinds of benefits. We brought the plastic money. We brought the register. We brought the law on smuggling, we brought the law on smuggling of tobacco. We have brought and punished and received'mistakes'. You didn't do anything. But, you'red' the banks, you've cut them 38 billion and you didn't bring a law to build the red loans. Why, is that so? Didn't you have time in the five years of PASOK or PASOK - New Democracy? After your hands took red loans from the 22 billion to 83 billion. Why didn't you bring a law? Why didn't you implement a measure? Why didn't you bring the lists and hid them? We brought in millions of dollars from the lists and put them in the fund. Who saved "Marinopoulos"? We are. Was SYRIZA's problem - ANEL "Marinopoulos" or "Marinopoulos" a problem in 2012? Let me not expand. There's a question in a lot of people. At some point we will discuss it with the Treasury, if we vote, of course, on the measures. Indeed, it is my question too: why do we not bring the positive measures a little further forward? Why, for example, do we not bring the reduction in corporate taxation in 2018? Why are we taking her further, in 2019, in 2020? Why are we taking her? Why don't we bring her forward, because it's a purely development measure? These are very clear questions that arise through our dialogues with institutions and the world. Now let's go look at the debt issue. In concluding this agreement, it is practically certain that the debt restructuring will come, otherwise the International Monetary Fund will not be involved, in which - but good for us at this stage - has given Germany the veto right, saying that without the IMF there is no agreement. Watch out now. I'll tell you the numbers to be recorded in the Minutes. We all want to go 2% and 1.5%, as I have said, 1.75% the surplus. Let me just say once again that the surplus of each economy, however much as it is in proportion or in sum, goes and pays interest in the loan service. There's one or another coming, either overloading or missing something. 3.5%, for example, at 180 billion, is around EUR 6-6.5 billion. Each year we have 6,590 interest for 2018, 6,622 for 2019, 6,630 for 2020 and 10,956 for 2021. We have, in other words, close to 3.5% of GDP. So we get the target. Watch out now. The 2% New Democracy tells us, which I want, means I want for 2018, as I miss 2.790 billion. Tell us where you'll find them. I want you to tell us in 2018 where you want 2% interest from the surplus where you will find 2.790 to serve the interest on the debts, where you will find 2.822 for 2019, 2.650 in 2020 and 7.1 billion in 2021. I'd love to, too, but I don't have it. The goal of 3.5% will be caught and caught because the economy will rise and the multiplier of the Gross National Product will change. Much wiser than us, like Sophocles, has said and noted: "Be strong, because when you tell the truth, you never make a mistake." And a more modern, Orwell, had also said a very good: "In a time of world lies, telling the truth is a revolutionary act." What's the truth? It's been a hard time, a half and a half, two years from today. Negative measures, but as I have shown, for the first time in the Greek Government in the middle of memoranda, negotiated, costed and agreed with three institutions. Not on our own! Let us come back, then, actually, to see who is telling the truth. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll need thirty seconds, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u380	Mr. Cammene, it's a pity to disprove my prediction that you'll manage well the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u381	The truth is, they'll make money and the economy will come up. And when the economy goes up, the main multiplier, who is the Gross National Product, and on it all the calculations are made for the interest-pays, and for whatever other measure we need to take. The government of SYRIZA - Independent Greeks is here to help the people. He's not here to hurt anyone. He has shown that he works hard, that he brings money from parallel activities or activities that had been hidden from previous governments. It is a government that will help both the bourgeois class and entrepreneurs to produce work, produce profits, reinvest their profits with lower taxation, give jobs, increase the family income of every worker, especially in the private sector, who have too many unemployed, so that they can serve their loans and have greater consumption. I would ask, in closing, that this bad habit of what almost did nothing to help the Greek economy through the crisis, not to criticise us, because we did not do enough or do much. Let's be a little more prudent and a little more crowded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u382	Minister Tsakalotos has some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u383	Yeah, I've got some legislative improvements. It is also for the financial board and for the single wage and some of the things Mr Toskas said yesterday, if you remember, and for the academics. So they'll share, Mr. President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u384	Mr. Papaliou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u385	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the political dimension of this multidisciplinary bill is that it is based on the 2015 memorandum, which was a coercive product. It is not our property, since the association of powers was and is still unfavourable, as the dogmatic neoliberal perceptions were and dominated. And yet, after a difficult and painful negotiation, the result of the second assessment is an agreement with concessions on both sides, from the Greek and the lenders' side, whose disagreements were the main reason for the extension of the negotiation. Moreover, the problem with Greece is political, as the leading German Christian Democrats have admitted, Mr Weber, saying "Greece has a communist Prime Minister". In addition, the political dimension of the plan is that, with the completion of the negotiation, climate change, market psychology and, through the settlement of the Greek debt and the integration of Greek bonds into the quantitative relaxation programme, Greek economy will be allowed to come out in the open. And there is already the institutional framework - ESDP, development law, simplification of procedures for the creation of businesses, an out-of-court mechanism for red business loans and others - which will allow the Greek economy to change course by reviewing the production model. In this environment, all international organisations today recognise that the Greek economy will improve its performance in the coming years. Finally, the political dimension of the plan is also that its content, which includes the agreement with the lenders, is governed by the principles of budgetary neutrality and the balance of social consequences as far as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not celebrating the situation, we are not celebrating because we have known the hard everyday life that Greek citizens have been experiencing for many years. Contrary to our position, unfortunately, the reports by the representatives of the Officerial Representation, the PASOK, but also other parties, reproduce the excesses, lies and propaganda of the sovereign media. Gentlemen of counter-population, you are opposed to after 2018, in fact, to the negative arrangements - the reduction of pensions and tax reduction - when you yourself have said "we would take all the measures that would be indicated to us by the lenders and so much". As far as countermeasures are concerned, it has been explicitly said by colleagues from the New Democracy and PASOK that countermeasures are "bads for indigenous people", "acquisition" and, of course, that you disagree with all countermeasures and you will vote against them all. However, most Members have not said anything specific about countermeasures, either by denouncing them or saying that they will not be implemented. In other words, once again, you are expressing self-esteemous prophecies - expectations which are constantly frustrated, as was the case with the first assessment, with the activation of the cut, the second assessment, the imminent settlement of the debt and so on. You are destroying and unfortunately acting at the expense of trying to return the country to normality. This is mainly because the countermeasures concerning popular strata and small and medium-sized enterprises do not belong and are not included in your ideological arsenal and political logic. Ladies and gentlemen, you cannot, for example, accept the exemption or deduction from participation in the pharmaceutical expenditure of up to EUR 700 and 1,200 respectively, the housing allowance, the programme for nurseries, school meals, the extension of an increase in the allowance for the first and second children, labour support measures, the increase in the public investment programme for infrastructure projects in rural areas and for energy saving and upgrading projects, the reduction of the ENPI, the reduction of the tax rate from 22% to 20%, the abolition of the special solidarity contribution for incomes of up to EUR 30 000. And all this every year. Are you really not going to vote on the VAT reduction arrangement from 24% to 13% on agricultural supplies, and even as from 1 July 2017? You guys are cut out for the farm? Nor will you vote for the regulation on harmonising Members' tax arrangements with the rest of the citizens? But the rest of the countermeasures. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] Ladies and gentlemen, to date you have been hiding behind the demands of the International Monetary Fund in support of its position. Today, you are hiding behind inaccuracies, distortion of things, false, slandering and perhaps hide behind the vote tonight if you choose it. And you do it by accusing SYRIZA of the situation in which the country has arrived. As SYRIZA has been ruling over the last few decades, as if SYRIZA had led to the complete abolition of agricultural production, as if SYRIZA had led to the destruction of the country's productive base, as if SYRIZA had led the country to bankruptcy, as though SYRIZA invited the International Monetary Fund to Greece, as if SYRIZA introduced the Memorandum Policies, which led to the collapse of GDP, the launching of unemployment, the impoverishment of the middle population and the "difference" of the people's population, and not the policies pursued by the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK, plundering the country. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But your problem is different. You constantly disprove from the evolution of things so that the left parentheses do not close but constantly open. And this leads you to irrational positions and attitudes, since the deprivation syndrome for power prevails in the ranks of the New Democracy and PASOK.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u386	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u387	I shall conclude, Mr President. We will continue to take the country out of the crisis and, above all, to promote the country's socially just productive reconstruction. And after the next elections, the left-hand side will continue to be open. And you will still ask for elections after the next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u388	Thank you very much. The speech is given by the Secretary General of the Communist Party of Greece and President of the Party Parliamentary Group Mr Dimitrios Koutsoubas.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u389	Ladies and gentlemen, since the Step of the House, we are condemning the workers, the pensioners, the unemployed of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL as responsible for the successive shrinking of their standard of living, their working rights, such as Sunday holidays, the worsening of their lives from unbearable tax burdens and so many others. The two successive memorials that this government has brought are enough to fall into its left mask, the one that has cultivated tolerance, which has enthusiastically framed, with visits by the Prime Minister in spaces of memory and honor of heroic events, heroic forms of our folk movement, class struggle, national resistance, democratic army, and the KIC itself. The new anti-grassroots agreement is a new memorandum, a fourth memorandum, a memorandum 'on Tuesday', as we have repeatedly said since the first moment. In fact, the measures support the profitability of the groups, whether directly or indirectly. These are guidelines that increase the exploitation of workers, strengthen the concentration of capital and promoted in all the Member States of the European Union. In vain the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is trying to convince the people that it is simply paying the broken government of the New Democracy and PASOK and that it is about innocent of crime. For this policy, however, all of them are accomplices to both the ruling class of Greece and the Association of Greek Industrialists and the quartet and the SYRIZA Government and the New Democracy and other urban parties. The first-time government to the left, however, is the first to have two memorandums, with Prime Minister Tsipras. Our previous ones were used to voting from one to take the horse for the bench. The PASOK government with George Papandreou passed the first memorandum in 2010. The Antonis Samaras government then voted for the second. Subsequently, Mr. Tsipras' government in 2015 passed the third memorandum, along with everyone else. And today, 2017 brings us the fourth. And, as we see, with all her statements, she does not deny that. It just tells us in its well-known way of enchanting the Greek people, that it's not exactly fourth, but it's just like a lasting agreement. It incorporates it in the memorials of a period of time, which, in any case, will apply, on the basis of the decisions and directions of the European Union, the IMF and all the rest of the well-being institutions and bodies with which the current coup d'état is also resuming, in order to ensure certain profitability for the monopolistic groups, by fighting the already hard-tested Greek people. Government officials are reassuring it's a balanced, debt-regulation deal, to return the country to normality. All these days, they reproduce that it's an agreement that puts an end to uncertainty. And all this is said at the same time that the working class and the people have literally kneeled after eight years of crisis, respondent memorials, anti-grass measures, which have drained their incomes, and which have leveled their rights. It is the people themselves who can no longer pay their loans, their debts to the tax office, the bills to PPC, the PPC. Red loans from 20,3 billion euros in 2010 exceeded 43 billion euros in 2016. One in two owes the tax office. Only by reducing wages, the average wage earner has 20% losses during the crisis, without calculating his tax-paying. PPC’s debts are growing constantly, with one and a half million consumers being unable to make an arrangement. It is the people who live or are in danger of living in poverty in the next few years, in excess of 35%. One in two children in our country lacks even the most basic goods. And evil won't stop, of course, if we don't stop it. They played a lot with the dreams and hopes of the Greek people. All of us, with one voice, must be squeezed out: 'It is no longer enough'. We're calling in a palal upsurge. We're not just talking about these days, about this connection. We are not talking in this House, but in the movement, the daily struggles that need to escalate and be gigantic. Here in Parliament they only show for the channels the system's pupils, just some SS orphans, some stray slaves, subjugated killer battalions guides. The uproar of the people must be expressed through the working people's movement, to abolish in practice the memorials, to pave the way for the overthrowing of the order of the drones who are serving and the current SYRIZA - ANEL government, as well as the Civic Opposition and other parties. And from the Step of the House we call on the employees, the self-employed in towns and countryside, agricultural production, pensioners, young people, young people, not to fall into the same error as the past, that is to say, leaving one government party - in this case today leaving SYRIZA - to support parliamentary and mass organizations, but old or reformed urban parties of the same anti-grassroot, such as the other urban forces here in Parliament. The JRC calls on the working people to think classically much more about those who already have a radical orientation, who on the left see opposition to monopolies, twilight alliances, the imperialist associations of the European Union, NATO, not to be trapped in the conscious fraudulent calling of the SYRIZA that they supposedly went through the difficult ones, that the development of something will also bring for workers, that the front of the philosophical and pro-development forces in the European Union will be strengthened in order not to strangle - it says - the firm fiscal policy and the strong euro for growth and social cohesion, as they say. We call on the people's labor forces and on the Step of the House not to be trapped in the criticism of the New Democracy, of other parties, which are made from an equally anti-popular starting point and the reasons for competition towards the government, but also for the reasons of certain differences in the same anti-popular direction of the capitalist recovery and the profitability of the groups. The New Democracy and the PASOK are not entitled to judge SYRIZA for its anti-grassroots measures since they were themselves and are operators of such measures. At the same time, we must not allow the SYRIZA Government to continue to deceive astrayly, to appear with supposedly social sensitivity, which others have, to display its alchemy with the so-called countermeasures for extreme poverty. As all of them together voted on the third memorandum, so they will proceed together with the implementation of the fourth memorandum in favour of capital, since it is not today considered anyway and is not in danger of being voted on by the parliamentary majority of the SYRIZA - ANELs. Ladies and gentlemen, this whole situation is not just uncertainty, it is the barbarity of the system that, in order to come out of its own crisis, loads its burdens on the working class and the people. New silver burdens of more than 4 billion euros. The euro is charged by the SYRIZA Government - ANEL with its new agreement, an agreement that has all of it: Supplementary cuts of EUR 500 million retrospectively for 2016 and family allowances and unemployment benefits and heating and EEA financing. This is how they see in SYRIZA the supposedly return to the social state, the relief of citizens. But there's more. For 2019, 1.8 billion euros will be found from the new reduction in main and supplementary pensions, which will reach up to 18% without taking into account inflation reductions, after any adjustments provided for by the Katrugalou Act were made after 2020. Now pensions become allowances while they are affected around a million pensioners. The other 1,8 billion euros is about the new tax reduction that will take from the pocket of the populaces up to 650 euros for each taxpayer. In other words, apart from the indirect taxes - which we are already paying them all, even the unemployed - now even the employee with an income of EUR 405 a month will pay even the pensioner whose pension exceeds EUR 475. Apart from that, the agreement also includes a number of other aspects, including working time. It is to promote the abolition of the Sunday holiday, which will have a painful impact on both traders and traders. It will accelerate the concentration of trade in large stores and supermarket chains. The length of framework for collective agreements is lengthened, and the key point is changes in trade union law, including the operation of unions, the call for strikes, etc., such as the speed at which strikes will be judged to be illegal. In other words, it is a trick agreement for the labour movement and the workers' struggles themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, all these years the workers, the employees, all the people have seen their income shrink dramatically. The situation goes no further, and that applies to all sectors. So we're still having meetings with mass, social bodies, unions, clubs. We collect the same cry of agony. In the air there are still three and a half thousand workers in "Help at Home". In the air the fifteen thousand contractors of local government bodies. Third-party families are not recognized as polytens, when today in Greece a multitude has to be considered as having at least three children and above. Even the free kilowatts that apply to others you did not want to accept the day before yesterday, as the JRC proposed, for these three-digit families. What kind of left government, really, is it that discusses the abolition of the special payroll for workers in the firefighting, the port, the police? Who doesn't recognize their right to strike? Who are forced even to buy helmets, uniforms, other materials useful for fire-fighting, fires, environmental protection against natural disasters. For example, firefighters - I am referring to them - to the protection of marine wealth, the fight against smuggling by workers in the port, the fight against crime, police officers, depending on the workers in the Armed Forces, etc., while, of course, much worse, until they are kneeled, are suffering from pensioners. Young people with job retraction and labour wandering, insecurity. The workers, who constantly see their poor income evaporate as well. Villages that, after the general declarations and ideas exhibitions last week, show the anti-linguistic person and education again, after you open the appetite for an even greater and massive possibility and the possibility of redundancies to teachers and, in fact, for ever exodus from private schools, prey to the immunity of capitalists in education. On top we also have all these hypocrites and Pharisees crying about the difficulties of mobilising the people and, in fact, getting to the point where the workers are going, considering that they agree or tolerate their anti-population policy. Let them not be unjustly blasphemed. It won't be long when the people will raise their narrow voice and you won't know where to hide, like the rabbit's children. Ladies and gentlemen, just think about each and every one of them: Really, who wins from the new government's agreement with its partners? Who will gain from further liberalisation of the market, by liberalising the professions, by abolishing the Sunday holiday? Did the self-employed in commerce, who already live in the truce of debts? Did the businesspeople, who don't know what free time to say, family? Who will win from the above liberalisation of the energy market, selling 30% -40% of PPC's lignite plants, and selling 17% of the share capital belonging to the GOI? Employees who will see PPC's accounts back on track, or do the employees in PPC? Who will win from a debt regulation agreement that the government is seeking after the closure of the rating? For a debt, of course, that the people did not create, but only the warm state money, which gave the capital all over the past few years. The groups are going to win and now that they're back in their pockets from this warm state money that the government wants to save from any debt adjustment. The people will, however, continue to bleed for their payment, so that the targets, numbers and surpluses are caught. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on debt settlement is part of the general debate within the European Union on the management of the overdue States of the Union. The overcompensation of states also reflects an anti-grassroots policy at an earlier period that fuelled the Group's profitability, as was done in the period for example the Olympic Games in the country. Of course, it also reflects the consequences of an economic union, such as the European Union, and even in conditions of economic crisis. The whole debate on fiscal and monetary policy within the European Union also reflects the overall contradictions between strong forces, for example France - Italy on the one hand and Germany on the other. And that is what surrounds and complicates this debate and the settlement of the Greek state debt in more realistic terms - so to speak - terms. However, and in any case, it is certain that a new restructuring will not be used to alleviate the burden on workers, pensioners, but rather to regain the profits of capitalist enterprises and their competitiveness. This has also been done with its previous restructuring. On the part of the International Monetary Fund there is a differentiation, which essentially reflects the well-known economic pressure of the United States of America on Germany. This conclusion will obviously be found in the next period, after the May 22 session. In any case, any reduction in the Greek debt does not only concern the repayment period and the amount of interest, but will also be accompanied by a number of conditions so that it does not constitute a solution to the Italian and French debts. Debt should not be recognised by the Greek people, because it is not the least to do with its creation. It has no reason to pay for the brokenness of others, the system of exploitation, the profitability of the few. Pay it for those who created it. Villages that, with any settlement, the people will pay for it again with new measures, with new prerequisites. Ladies and gentlemen, the government with its new countermeasure tale, with the claim that it is the budgetary antidote to measures and that, supposedly, the overall package is neutral, wants to hide that the anti-popular measures itself, which are already agreed with the European Union and the IMF, which will be added to all the previous ones, will bring lasting uncertainty, further poverty in the lives of the working people's family. The reality and the truth is that the so-called countermeasures are not a different, supposedly philosophical side of government policy. The opposite is true. They serve together with the new measures and other government initiatives. They are a single cohesive grid of escalating the attack as a whole against the people. The government takes five of the people's pockets, promises to return one to only some of them, and if everything goes well with the primary surpluses and if their partners approve it and put it in! And she has the courage to call on the workers to support her. It is about applying the proposal of the undocumented Kammenos for one hundred a month, which, instead of retired people giving to their grandsons, is better to give it to the state of capital. It is not a social policy to tackle the extreme poverty created by the farm system, but it is a mere stir of poverty in millions who are deprived of what is already created. In addition, most of the countermeasures will directly or indirectly strengthen large enterprises, not workers. The subsidised jobs programme in large enterprises and the taxation of enterprises, which are included in the countermeasures, is a direct subsidy for large capital, and it is also an indirect support for the same and other countermeasures, which, through the market, strengthen banking groups, pharmaceuticals that promote generic, construction companies and others. Therefore, countermeasures are not an antidote to the policy of support for monopolistic groups, but a part of it. That's why we're seeing top businessmen do signob in government propaganda. The implementation of the countermeasure package is linked to the full and successful implementation of the anti-grass package of measures, both for young people and for existing ones, as the measures will be legislated and implemented without any preconditions, without any condition, while the countermeasures only under conditions. Finally, even the term 'antimeters' is misleading. She was invented for the needs of government propaganda, to make her mocking bigger, the false promises she is going again to sell to our always betrayed and gullible people. The countermeasures in no way concern all those affected by the harsh measures. For example, the reduction in pensions affects all pensioners. The increase in taxes affects all employees and self-employed persons with income above tax. In other words, practically, every people's family will be asked to pay an additional EUR 1,500 a year on average, while only a very small part of the self-employed may likely have a small improvement in the future by reducing the tax rate or HISPIA. Many families will pay without collecting any kind of countermeasure. But most of all, even with a full implementation of the anticipated countermeasures, if we assume that neither the current popular needs are fully met. It is a great mockery that these countermeasures - if all is finally implemented, because they are also being introduced with asterisks - can compensate for the enormous losses that will be incurred by the already cut-off people's labour income. All the rest the government says, the aim is to get the country out of the memorials and to end the period of humiliating comitology, our people hear it. The previous ones said the same thing. However, neither the previous ones nor the current SYRIZA - ANELs argue that the end of the memorandum will also mean the return of all that our people have lost with the memoranda. On the contrary. The hundreds of anti-grass laws, which in our country entered under the umbrella of memoranda - while in other countries without memoranda the same measures were called about there reforms - came to stay, loaded on the backs of the working class, the Greek people. They were adjustments of the system to the detriment of popular conquests, under conditions that capitalism worldwide became more reactionary but also more helpless. As reforms, they are only the source of capital from its crisis and the ticket to regain its profitability. But at the same time the people continue to bleed and suffer. That is why we are not fooled by any measures - countermeasures, nor by the big words about the debt settlement. Ladies and gentlemen, an example of the anti-grassroots nature of the reforms, the objective of widespread privatisation is from the very crucial area of energy. It was accompanied by legislation that hit wages, increased PPC's bills for popular households, creating a favourable environment only for the profitability of monopolies. The SYRIZA-ANEL coexistence has a valuable ally to New Democracy's Civic Opposition, as shown by the publicity of its positions, moving in the same direction. SYRIZA as an opposition previously systematically produced the illusion that there could be philosophical management in the context of liberation, despised that liberation is a strategic choice of the European Union and the domestic ruling class since the 1990s and is not just abrupt to the memorial and crisis. His bowage to the liberation strategy was hidden in slogans - so often - against privatization of PPC at the time, following the rejection of the specific - allegedly - projects selected by the previous governments, such as the cutting-up plan in small and large PPC. Today, doing the dirty work on behalf of capital, SYRIZA is moving more decisively and more efficiently - he says - on promoting liberation. What's the result? A number of units have to remain operational or be a past. Workers have suffered a cut in wages in mines over 40%, and more than a thousand workers' redundancies in subcontractors have already been made. The Government passes all the burden on PPC's domestic tariffs for new discounts on industrial current. It is therefore important to draw conclusions. Today, we need a movement of overthrowing the policy and power of monopolies. There is no room for other delusions. It is constantly revealed that its problem, like any problem, is a political problem. A completely different alternative plan is needed both in social organisation and in the economy. To abolish wage earner slavery, to consolidate social property relations, to have a scientific central economic planning with an incentive to overall social benefit and not profit. This debate must be opened in our people. This truly subversive solution of economic and social organization is the only one that can ensure cooperation between states for the benefit of peoples, without the risks of wars, of involvement in sharing with the aim of exploitation and profit. Ladies and gentlemen, you Members of SYRIZA, the New Democracy, the ANELs. etc., you are all talking about joining Greece in new energy and transport projects from the Pacific to the Atlantic. You are welcome from your long and oldest allies, the United States of America, France, Germany and China and Russia. You do not hesitate to touch on investment projects to export capital from Greece to neighbouring countries, at the same time as you are already on board both the northern and eastern borders, that is, when the disputes between borders and sovereign rights continue. Make sure you don't understand that roads to transport energy, goods, etc. are the apple of precipitation for who will prevail in the share already under way throughout the region. Americans, Chinese, Russians, Germans, French, and British are behind it. And in this split they claim for their monopolies and the Turkish bourgeoisie, which through the Erdogan government continues to provoke the Greek bourgeoisie, which, through the SYRIZA - ANEL Government today sells the new great idea of the country's geostrategic upgrading in NATO. The Government of SYRIZA - ANEL, as well as the other urban parties, support the search for the Greek bourgeoisie in competition with the Turkish bourgeoisie to claim shares and new markets for Greek monopolies. That is why Greece participated and participated in imperialist - aggressive projects, which is why Greek troops were found outside the country's border in Kosovo, Bosnia, Afghanistan, Lebanon, Somalia, Mali. That is why we are talking about Greece is taking part in thirteen naval missions outside the borders. The SYRIZA Government - ANEL very willingly and with the agreement of all other parties supports NATO's plans towards Russia. He offered cover to the imperialist attack of the United States on Syria, invited NATO to the Aegean, supported all aggressive naval decisions and after the US ministers' agreements to expand US military bases in Greece, like in Souda. That is why he is also congratulating the modern, American ambassador. The Greek people, like the people of neighbouring countries, must demand the removal of Greece from interventions, from occult persecutions, the closure of the bases, such as Souda, the return of Greek troops from missions outside the border, from this capital that is made in the wider region. We appeal to those who are indignant, see that the situation is no longer going, are in the mood to clash with this fatalism that exists, misery, reduced demands. Most of us are addressing all those who are currently protesting on the streets of Athens outside the House, the streets and cities of all Greece, to all those who are watching us these days. The war of the workers, of the people with the perpetrators of his life is a marathon, it does not end with one or two rallys, with a strike battle, it is a struggle daily, continuous to create all kinds of resistance and counter-attacks. We particularly call on the people of the people, who feel left, who believed in SYRIZA, and today he resents, feels justified anger, indignation and tell him to take the step now. Not only does the situation change with anger, with an unpleasantness for this government and its curse. There are no more excuses. To bring hope to life, we invite them to discuss in the movement, in the struggles, in the places of work, in the places of residence, in the schools for how we will fly one and the good of those who suck the blood of the people, how we fight to make it, namely, a reality that the political proposal of way from the crisis to the benefit of the people and, of course, this is the only answer to the capitalist barbarism that we are experiencing. The same path will be followed, we are sure, and other peoples in the region, Europe, the world. So it will only be possible for our people to live in accordance with their real, modern needs, to enjoy the opportunities offered by science, technology, labour productivity, the great wealthy sources and potential of Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u390	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary-General, my colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-eight students and students and six educational attendants from the 1st Municipal School of Artas. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I would ask Mrs Catherine Papakostas - Iron-poulou to speak for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u391	Totally strict?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u392	Totally strict.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u393	Not like this, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u394	No, no. I'll try to get in some, five to six more MPs. Otherwise there is no time, you know it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u395	Thank you very much, Mr President, but everyone will have to respect the Members, all the actors. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, because all previous colleagues, in particular the Officerial Representation and the other parties, including government MPs, have been exhausted in the analysis of the measures and the compensatory measures provided for in the government's agreement, let me put them at this very top moment for the Greek Parliament. We are at a historically low level, ladies and gentlemen - I mean the political world - in the assessment of society, and that is, of course, the result of the general decline, which runs society horizontally, declining values and principles, of which the economic crisis is a consequence. I think that the economic crisis can be tackled at some point, that we will be able to move away from it, but the general decline of principles and values I think we should all be afflicted, tired and upset too much to curb it. Let me say, because they have arrested, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that the government, the Prime Minister and their partners in the government on the old political system, and there they incorporate the New Democracy, that as far as the New Democracy is concerned, it is of paramount importance for me from the transformation of time political periods and a great political unfair that your Government is making, starting from the fact that the New Democracy - let us not forget - is the historic event that established democracy, founder is the top Greek politician of the 20th century, Constantine Karamanlis, with strong traces on the social fabric of the country, who left Greece when he left Greece, with undisturbed democracy, with social peace, with power of armed forces, with wealth, with strong energy sources, with strong economy and investment in foreign countries, radically in his preservation, he left Greece, with undeclared political action and dissocraticism and he excuption. Later, the second historic period, which was crucial for the turning of this country, the consequences of which we are experiencing today, followed by the entry into economic and monetary union as a symbolic event rather than a radical political and economic change for the country. And this has brought about consequences, you have to know, because it was an effort with potential benefits but also with potential risks, which we are currently living for the national economy. The third time period is when New Democracy receives, in accordance with the process of state continuity to see the old political system, the first Memorandum from the Papandreou government, which, by the way, was 27-1-2017, the former Prime Minister and former Head of its resignation, Mr. Simitis, criticised it by saying that the country was unprepared to accept the first Memorandum. With the principle of state continuity, however, New Democracy has received this first Memorandum from the Papandreou Government, which has corrected policy, recipe and policy mix, and today, ladies and gentlemen, we are all ahead of our responsibilities. There was a first unfair policy by the current government and its partners, that then you systematically undermined, organised and targeted the government at the time, because it was implementing through the principle of state continuity, as it had to, the agreed ones, which it received. Of course, you - and that is why we are all here - are all in favour of implementing the agreements, because the agreed ones must be respected, and of course we are all, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ministers, who are here, planning a policy and a strategy for the memorandum era for the country, preventing the temptation of the division and the extremities accompanying it. Now, the great unfair game you are making, ladies and gentlemen of the government, with this agreement: Where has it been heard to prejudge, of course, with the responsibility of our lenders, who are also divided at this time, for measures and for compensatory measures, which belong to the next cycle of governance, which is an absolute and democratic right, indisputable democratic right, of the next government to implement the policies that it will choose with our partners at the time? So you have done a great political unfair game and indeed without asking for the approval of the people, investing where? In investing in the institutional consistency of the New Democracy, which has said that the state has continued and that the agreed ones must be respected and, of course, the principle of citizens' confidence in the state, which the political world must build every day. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that we are in what is described in a magical performance that has gone up in the country, in the Evita performance, where there is the ordinary people singing in repository to Eva Peron, his Evita, and he says about politicians - to see, over time, what happens when all people suffer these consequences - 'The terms of political clear, explicit and precise: Do as you can, art of practicable and impracticable. One by one, pull the cross, one by one. You want a middle road." Ladies and gentlemen, we must find the middle ground, or we will be swallowed by amoralism, division and extremism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u396	Thank you very much, Mrs Oomen-Ruijten, both for the time and for your excellently structured speech. I would ask the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity to come to Step, Mrs Achtsoglou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u397	Mr President, can I take a minute to present an amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u398	Of course, you will have at least one minute more than the time I have given you, that is, instead of ten, eleven minutes. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u399	We have tabled an amendment. I think it is possible to add to the other arrangements of the bill by the Ministry of Labour, 58A. It is an amendment that facilitates the smooth operation of ELINYAE, the Greek Institute of Health and Safety and the institutes established with the participation of the social partners, and above all is done to ensure the wages of workers in them. It is also solved by this amendment and by the problem of the grant of EEAP, the National Qualifications and Professional Guidance Organization. It is a public qualification and professional guidance certification structure. He wasn't unraveled about how to fund him. It will be sponsored by the OAED LEEC account. Also, with the amendment that you will see, we are regulating the debts of these institutes, of ELINYAE and of the other social partners, by defining withholding 15% of the annual grant they receive. That is all in relation to the amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law that we have been discussing in the last few days and which the House is called upon to vote today is the result of a hard and painful negotiation process. It is the result of long technical negotiations. However, it is also the result of important political initiatives taken, the result of individual compromises, concessions and victories. It is the result of a comprehensive effort by the government, an effort we expect to be a decisive step towards ending a regime that has been imposed in our country since 2010, a regime of Memorandums of Loan and Communitv, which has the effect of losing as an important part of our political autonomy as a country. We have been negotiating in this period to the end within a suffocating framework, in which we dominated dogmatic neoliberal perceptions, which have also created the present deadlocks in which Europe is located, because in the way it tried to manage the crisis, with the domination of these very perceptions, they have ultimately exacerbated the situation. We have found ourselves repeatedly against extreme demands often unmarked, given the current state of the Greek economy, requirements for measures of a purely punishable nature, with a punishing dimension to the Greek society, who dared to question their one-way and iron neoliberal fiscal discipline. They are requirements based on obsessed and often an economic irrationality: when the International Monetary Fund predicted a 0.6% primary deficit for 2016 - I would remind you that the primary surplus of 2016 was ultimately more than 4% - and it required clear austerity measures for 2019 of 2% of GDP, while at the same time it saw a budget gap for the period until 2018. It is a fund that has been proved over time to make very big mistakes in its assessments. Exaggeratedly incorrect financial performance, it was overestimated by 2014, depreciating it from 2015 onwards. These are estimates that most seem to be based on his political sympathies and disillusionments rather than on economic data and, in fact, on reality. We know, then, that this battle is difficult, has backwards, has compromises, has setbacks and losses. We have fought, in circumstances that we do not define, to complete this critical assessment, so that the economy can have space and time in order to inspire the recovery it takes, so that society can also have space and time to work in an environment of relative stability. We tried to do this by protecting acquired rights of the social majority. We made it somewhere and we didn't. We're not talking about successory. We stand with respect and anguish towards you MPs, but above all towards society and citizens. We know the difficulties and painful limitations of an insultingly limited sovereignty, as we know that the only way to regain control of our future is to end our dependence on foreign institutional lending, achieve the debt to be sustainable, and claim the end of the memorial and comitology. On this painful route, our appreciation is that for the first time we have an open horizon. The bill will be passed, as the Vice-President of the Government said yesterday, because despite his negative or difficult points, it has two very strong features: on the one hand, it will bring an overall agreement, essentially debt regulation measures to unlock the procedures for the termination of the committee and the memorandums. On the other hand, because for the first time it introduces positive measures supporting the majority of Greek society, measures to support the unemployed, young people, the family, the backbone of the Greek economy, measures to balance the impact of the negative measures in the period 2019 and 2020. For the first time, therefore, a holistic family policy is being planned, in which there are measures to support children, labour support measures, measures which, despite their systematic effort to degrade them, concern the majority of society and are not just a network of protection against poverty. For remember, the protection net from extreme poverty has already shaped it since the first days of our government, under conditions of budgetary suffocation, by the law on the humanitarian crisis. The positive measures which are reflected in this bill are measures which, for the first time, create substantial structures of a social state and strengthen those that have been historically supported in the framework of the Greek welfare state. For the first time, the extended housing allowance, covering 60% of the population currently in rent or a first home loan, is being introduced with an average grant of EUR 1,000 per year. This is a measure that will cover about one million and thousands of our fellow citizens. The nursery care program is being set up to allow more than a hundred thousand children to have access free of charge to kindergartens. The school meal program, which will cover 50% of the children in the country's high school and primary schools, is being set up. Our aim is to combat child poverty and food insecurity among pupils. The enhanced child allowance is being introduced, of which some three million of our fellow citizens will benefit. And so a family with two children and an income of up to EUR 18,000 a year, which today only takes EUR 26 a month, with the new allowance of EUR 75 a month, that is, EUR 900 a year. Reduced participation in pharmacy expenditure, covering 80% of the country's population, is being introduced. Measures to strengthen the work that are designed specifically for the recovery of Brain Drain, the evacuation of highly trained personnel abroad and the creation of jobs in the structures of the social state. "Metra - aspirins, measures - crumbs, measures - zippers," says the antipopulation gentlemen. Really, can you remind us of an agreement that you brought to the House from 2010 to today that has had positive measures?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u400	The minimum guaranteed income.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u401	Ladies and gentlemen, as far as I can tell, the last thing that a citizen needs today is to hear our complaints. But we must hold this debate, at least in a rational context. We have a minimum obligation to the right word. Because I have the impression that the debate over the last few days has been dominated by irrationalism, by contradictions. You tell us that, with the negative measure on pensions in the bill, we dismantle pensioners. [[At this point, the end of the speech bell of the Secretary-General hits the warning bell.]] I would like some more time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u402	You have at least two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u403	So why didn't you vote for the exceptional allowance last December, which gave a breath to a million and a half low pensioners? Why didn't you vote for it? You're telling us that the measures we bring are a gravel, they're a disaster for society. Why were you asking us to take more than that to close the evaluation? You are telling us that we agree on destructive, inconceivablely high surpluses. Why did you agree on a higher one? An agreement on primary surpluses existed before us, which provided for 2017 and 2018 for a surplus of 4.5%. The surpluses you had agreed required additional measures for the period up to 2018 of 20 billion. Was the target possible for 4.5% in 2017 and 2018 and is the target not possible for 3.5%? You signed from 2012 for surpluses up to 2030 average 4%. What exactly was your debt strategy when you signed these surpluses? You thought debt was sustainable even if we had to have 4% surpluses by 2030. And how many billions of meters would this budgetary course cost Greek society? You have signed this and you are accusing us of an agreement with zero budgetary effect, which will only be implemented on condition that the debt measures are implemented. I would suggest that you also tell Mr Vorides to read the first paragraph of the general section of the explanatory statement, which says that they are a prerequisite for the adoption of substantial debt regulation measures. You're accusing us of breaking down labour rights. Why, as far as we were negotiating, did you characterize these rights of the Left and anachronisms? You tell us that the positive measures we put forward are'spirins'. In your amendment, there is a measure for nurseries. And then you tell us that what we do positively, what we are gaining in this negotiation was self-evident, it was for granted, it already existed. It does not change, you say, anything with the article on collective agreements, because they - it says - were not on indefinite suspension, they were linked to the medium-term that was in place when they were suspended. But, if that is the case, collective agreements would not automatically come back in 2018, but would come back when that medium-term, to which their suspension was linked, was renewed, i.e. in 2012. Why didn't you extend a dozen branches then and tell us what we won was self-evident? Why didn't you? You say that our social measures are 'fits'. In conditions of fiscal suffocation, we have introduced the social income of solidarity, which today takes five hundred thousand of our fellow citizens. We received a budget for welfare of EUR 780,000, 000, and today we have reached EUR 1.5 billion. Forty years when you ruled, why didn't you do it? Put the memos aside. Forty years when you ruled, why didn't you do it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u404	So you can do it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u405	Quiet, please. Please be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u406	With our interventions on the question of housing, we end the hostage of thousands of our fellow citizens, who finally become owners of their homes, who had to take their homes from 1978. Forty years when you ruled, why didn't you? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] A few days ago, the Labour Inspectorate confirmed a fine of EUR 1,600 000 to a large bank for more than a hundred violations of labour law. You obviously wouldn't have seen it, and you wouldn't have known, because the majority of the media didn't see it. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Forty years when you ruled, why didn't you? Were they good employers then and they become bad people with us? Have they violated labour legislation all of a sudden, since 2015? When did you mess with the big guys? Why didn't you do it, since it was self-evident, since it was data? [[Noise in the Chamber]] You didn't...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u407	Be quiet, please. Don't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u408	You didn't do it because you didn't want to do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u409	Don't answer. Mrs. Vulture, she doesn't ask. Rectoral questions he's doing in the context of an argument.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u410	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u411	You're experienced. Keep the questions and answer both here and outside. Please. Come on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u412	You didn't do it because you didn't want to do it. Eleven laws and two cabinet acts passed by your governments from 2010 to 2014 and completely deregulationed the labour market. They set the ground for employers' arbitrariness, stripped unemployment and 'black work'. You have dissolved the control mechanisms. You didn't do that because you were forced by a overwhelming relationship. You did them because for you this deregulation was typical - and here I will quote - from you "the same change, which is aimed at improving productivity, a change that you were stumbling up in the hesitancy of the political system". You did these because they were your program. For this is why, while we have been negotiating, you have fought the European Parliament against the Community, as the best friends of the International Monetary Fund, and you have tried to convince the other socialist parties not to talk to SYRIZA because it is an expression of a nationalist concept.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u413	We were traitors.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u414	First of all, you don't say this conversation. Who do you call it for? Either for themselves or for each other.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u415	I was talking to us. According to what the Minister says.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u416	Please. Madam Minister, please close.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u417	I'll be done. We're not going to follow any streets and any phrases about success story. We have a lot of work to do to defeat the nightmare we're experiencing. And we will fight this battle every day and we will exploit every breach of the collapsed system of neoliberal hegemony. Because there is something more important than micro-political feasibility. As long as this breach does not take advantage of the progressive forces, it finds space in this breach far-right and exploits it both in Europe and in our country. As long as this space is not exploited by us, as long as this breach is not exploited by us, the populist extreme is taken over by the right. The more inertia we give, the more inertia we show, the more space we give this far-right, the more Europe-wide it now demands a leading role and we allow it to define political priorities. That is why we will not abandon this effort. Because this effort is ultimately a question of democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u418	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u419	Mr President, I should just like to take the floor for a moment to make a legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u420	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u421	The only thing that clears up is for countermeasures, business taxation on what profits the tax will calculate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u422	To be submitted and distributed to fellow Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u423	Mr Arabatzis, Member of the Commission. — (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, Mr Arabatzis, on
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u424	Thank you, Mr President. I should like to remind the Minister of Labour in question of some tangible measures taken by previous government and not 'flats' countermeasures, such as a reduction in VAT on the focus from 23% to 13%, which, of course, were taken to 24%, a reduction in excise duty on heating oil, a reduction in employers' contributions, a reduction in the extraordinary contribution of solidarity. Ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago the Prime Minister said society was with him, because he did not react and he did not protest. But the other day, in this Chamber, there were forty-seven bodies representing society and each social group, from every professional class, the same cry of despair was heard, the same disappointment about cheating and mocking. There was not one one to speak in good words about your fourth memorandum, unfortunately there was not one mentioning your false countermeasures. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL, society has spoken. And society is against you, all those who are affected by what you will certainly vote on this evening, whether they will be implemented in 2018 or 2019 or 2020. So these few hours before the vote on the second left memorial, talk a little sincerely to yourself, instead of laughing. Remember that you have the responsibility for the destructive way the country took after January 2015, think about what you said in the squares, in the TV panels, in the gatherings, in this House, in case - I say - feel a little shame. People who would tear up the memorial tombs, tomb and tomb the lives and dreams of people. They sign two or two Memorandums, cut pensions, drop tax free, dismantle with contributions...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u425	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u426	...free professionals, uniforms, employees, small and medium-sized enterprises, the society that produces and is beaten. I remember you mocking and presenting everywhere as the solution to the drama of the country the programme of Thessaloniki. This - remember - which provided for EUR 12 billion and comes out just the day before yesterday, Mr Varoufakis, without shame and said that this programme was an nonsense and an organised mockery to steal, he says, the people's vote, and now the EUR 4.5 billion benefits have become EUR 4.5 billion and the country's bill of 24 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been about two years since the Prime Minister got up on the wheelchairs of agricultural machinery and promised all of it to farmers. You have promised cheap agricultural oil and you have come and cut it'surging', depriving the world of primary production of EUR 130 to 160 million a year, in the only European Union country with a condemnation of you and a choice, as the Commissioner responsible for finance, Mr Moskovis, says. You have promised to suspend auctioning of agricultural assets, and today you are committing the accounts of farmers and farmers, even for disaster compensation. You promised to abolish the trade fee for farmers, reduce the tax payment of 55% and, of course, once again, the trade fee did it as a result and the tax advance increased it to 100%. You are the government - and don't forget - who has for the first time taxed agricultural subsidies from the first euro, baptizing the tax invasion of the tax burden. And these are the Prime Minister's own words in September 2015. The Prime Minister, who promised tax-free at 12,000 euros for farmers in June 2014, the Minister for Rural Development who celebrated here in Parliament on 7 May 2016, that "in the negotiation we achieved something impossible", "a historic day for farmers", "unreasonable for farmers in 9,000", is the same Minister of the same Prime Minister who will today vote for the reduction of duty at 6,500 euros. Mr Tsipras, before being closed in Maximos, promised all the concentrations of the farmers on the thirteenth, thirteenth, fourteenth pension, this evening will cut not one, not two, but three and possibly four pensions on the low-pension farmers of EUR 400. Yes, gentlemen of the government! For the retired farmer of EUR 400, your fourth memorandum withholds EUR 864 from the abolition of the personal dispute, which will also apply to them, of course, once the applicable laws equating them uniformly to EVKA, EUR 650 from the tax-free amount, EUR 1,514 total and make the bill. It is a shame, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that since 1 January 2017 you have not made a pension for the fifteen thousand born in 1950, mature to retired farmers, holding hostages. They lose that way six months' pensions. At the same time, you invite them to pay insurance contributions while you should pay them pensions. And, of course, you're playing delays with the infamous 60% cut if they choose to keep growing. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Unfortunately, the difficulties do not stop here, because with one hand you are cutting pensions and tax-free, and with the other hand you are extending the tax base by putting new taxes on self-insurers, because for the first time insurance contributions will be regarded as income and they will be taxed again. What can we do first, ladies and gentlemen? The famous agricultural pension of EUR 384 in 2021 that you have just moved it ten years later, in 2031? It's a really big list. Ladies and gentlemen - and with your tolerance, Mr President - there is not a single social group and even the weakest not to be affected by the measures in your fourth memorandum. Today you will vote for another reduction. Since 1 January 2018, the heating allowance will eventually go to 58m euros from 210m a year of evil New Democracy. Then you blame us, as you will remember, for sacrificing the lives of the Greeks who die, trying to warm up with the mansion.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u427	Please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u428	You are bringing all this social catastrophe and you are still talking about countermeasures, forgetting that in order to implement your traffic countermeasures, the surplus should reach 10 billion euros, i.e. taxation until extinction. Ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, this evening the Prime Minister will ask you to vote 'yes' at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u429	Close, Mrs. Arabaji.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u430	I'm closing, Mr. President. Because the government of the so-called left must remain in power in every way. When you raise both hands, however, remember that it is the same Prime Minister, who said on the 25th of January that there is no possibility that we should legislate EUR 1 extra measures.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u431	Thank you, my fellow Member, so that other Members may speak, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u432	It was also his statement yesterday that he would wear a tie soon, because the debt issue is going so well! Such cynicism by a Prime Minister to a people who are kneeling with your policies.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u433	Thank you very much. The Deputy Minister of Finance, George Tuliarakis and then Mr Gerasimis Yiakoumatos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u434	Finally! Let's make some oil! I've been waiting since 11:00, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u435	Mr. Yakumate, you will have heard of them to be challenged by all the government ministers responsible.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u436	Two scarves to do. The House of Lords and the House of Patriarchs.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u437	Please, Mr. Juliarakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u438	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin my speech, I submit to the Bureau a legislative improvement that refers to the Security Body.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u439	I am watching, therefore, with care and interest, many of the positions of counter-population and I am surprised to see that what is systematically absent is an understanding of the environment within which the country is moving, the framework within which the negotiation takes place and the restrictions that a country is facing, such as Greece, which continues to be excluded from international markets. The main challenge facing the country during the negotiations for the completion of the second assessment was as follows. On the one hand, the completion of the assessment presupposed the official participation of the International Monetary Fund in the Greek programme and on the other hand the International Monetary Fund has been permanently underestimating the fiscal performance and the current financial performance of 2015-2016 and the medium-term of the Greek economy, calling for additional measures of EUR 4.5 billion in order to participate. On the one hand, his involvement was necessary, and I would go a step further, say that he would also be desirable, given the positions he has on the subject of restructuring. On the other hand, it has been a prerequisite for taking measures of EUR 4.5 billion, precisely because it is permanently underestimating our financial performance. So the government had to avoid the protracted negotiation, because we are well aware that prolongation of trading time means uncertainty and uncertainty, as well as the expectations of the real economy, and at the same time time time time time it works against us. On the other hand, the government had to avoid accepting financially irrational measures amounting to 4.5 billion, which would exacerbate the recession, precisely when the Greek economy was unstable. The package of budgetary measures, therefore, with a fiscal neutrality which is currently being legislated, shows, precisely, the necessary compromise between these two catastrophic versions and, as such, must be judged. In other words, the prolongation of uncertainties on the one hand and the adoption of measures of ECU 4.5 billion. On the other hand. But I'm going a step further. All the interventions forming part of the 2018-2021 Medium-term Financial Strategy, which is being voted on today, are the only road map that guarantees consistently and safely, I would say, and with careful steps to get the country out of the great Greek recession. The Medium-term Financial Strategy Programme is set up around three axes: The first axis is to maintain the budgetary balance that we have achieved over the last two years, in 2015 and 2016, by exceeding the budgetary targets for primary surpluses. It is important here to understand from all sides, to achieve the budgetary targets for primary surpluses and in some cases, such as in the case of the Greek economy that the credibility of budgetary policy has been lost, even to overcome the objectives of primary surpluses, if you want, to produce a positive surprise to public finances. The answer lies in the course of the 10-year bond interest rates. As in the last seven years, precisely following the announcement of the official result by EUROSTAT on 21 April and the completion of the second assessment, they have been at levels that have never been found in the last seven years with a small parentheses in spring 2014. The first objective of the medium-term is, therefore, not to jeopardise the need to maintain the budgetary balance and to strengthen the credibility of public finances. We are not talking about anything but good management of the Greek taxpayers' money. Secondly, the aim is to redistribute income so that this necessary adjustment required to maintain balance can be made at the same time as reducing disparities and strengthening the most vulnerable households. I would like to refer to the empirical analysis of the Economic Experts Council on the financial results of the package and countermeasures of both the reduction of duty on the one hand and positive interventions on the other. I am referring to the social income of solidarity, I am referring to the reduction of the tax rates of income, I am referring to strengthening family allowances, and so on per archipelago. Very briefly, to the extent that time permits, I would like to say that for the first six decimal places, that is, for a percentage that covers more than half the Greek population, the cumulative effect, the overall result of all the interventions - positive and negative - is strengthening their income. For the first quarter - and we are talking about an absolute poverty category - income support is of the order of 22.7%. However, a small, but significant aid of between 1% and 5% also knows the decimals from two to six. There is a small loss obviously - because the political economy of every reform has been won but has been lost - they know the more than tenths. It is therefore consistent in fiscal stability policy, while reducing income inequalities and supporting low incomes. I present the report of the Economic Experts Council to the Bureau of Parliament to share with those who are interested. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister, George Huliarakis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned report, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] There is no doubt at all that support for low incomes in the years 2015-2016 and in the next two years 2017-2018 is costing and I have recognised it many times both in the 2016 budget debate and in the 2017 budget debate - it was based on middle-class taxation. Thirdly, therefore, a pillar of the Medium-term Financial Strategy is precisely the gradual reduction in the taxation of natural persons, businesses and property by 3.5 billion by 2021, both in order to permanently relieve the middle-class and to support economic activity, but without risking the safe exit of the country from the crisis. The proposal, which is reflected in the medium-term programme, therefore, is stability with a view to social cohesion, the reduction of economic inequalities, the safe exit of the country from the crisis. I must stress here, once again, that there is no other consistent, coherent proposal for a fiscal policy for exiting the crisis. I'm on my way to the officer's office. The Qualifying Opposition, therefore, claims that it can today, if it were government to reduce taxes, and I would say that it will be dramatically reduced, while reducing primary expenditure. I believe that it is not about wages or pensions, which account for nearly 70% of primary expenditure but about operating expenditure. Let me stress here that the institutions themselves - listen to this because it is of interest - and above all the International Monetary Fund - consider that further reduction - not reallocating - of primary operating expenditure is not possible. That is why the medium-term budgetary strategy programme integrates a floor into these expenditures, and this floor provides for an increase in the expenditure of the nominal GDP rate. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Give me a minute, Mr President, to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u440	Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u441	I now come to the amendment tabled yesterday by the Qualified Opposition. It's a proposal that's interesting. New Democracy costs her well. It moves between 800 million and 900 million and asks the government this year to reduce HPAI by 20%, reduce the excise duty on wine, as well as reintroducing VAT on agricultural supplies already implemented, as well as extending the programme for nurseries. All very nice and all embedded anyway in the medium term. What the New Democracy does not say is how this intervention will be financed in the 2017 budget and further. Even if there is space in 2017, listen, why do you want to rule...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u442	There is. One off.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u443	You will make one off the reduction of HISPIA. So you're going to reduce it this year by 30% and next year will you increase it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u444	We'll see next year.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u445	Next year there's no room.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u446	How do you know?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u447	This is not a consistent fiscal policy. We therefore move on to these interventions safely, consistently and consistently, but we implement them in a way that does not create a problem with fiscal stability, while inspiring social cohesion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u448	Thank you very much. Mr Gerasmos Giakoumatos has the floor for six minutes, and then President Leventis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u449	Thank you, Mr President. Since 11:00 the hour - thank God I am fine - I am invited to speak. I have said this before, at last let us do an upper parliament and a lower parliament, the House of Lords and Patriarchs, to speak as much as they want, and a House of Plenipotentiaries, MPs, because this is where the MP is swelling to speak. In any case, Mr President, think about it in the Revision of the Constitution, let alone do so. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have a long way to go in this Chamber in the Greek Parliament. In all these years, I have met important political leaders and significant MPs, with important work and a positive and negative one. I must admit, however, that what I've experienced in the last two years, I've never seen it before, I never imagined it. That's right, Mrs Ahtsoglu. That's right. We're experiencing-- it's a nightmare. Who's experiencing him, Mrs. Ahchioglu? The retired man? The unemployed? The poor guy? Today's the place is experiencing a great nightmare. And why is he having a nightmare? We are talking today about a fourth memorandum. You are, indeed, to join the Gina Award. In two years, if this, at 4,9 billion dollars, is not a memorandum, then what do you call it? It is an additional EUR 4.9 billion burden, additional measures and these additional measures, ladies and gentlemen of the whole Left - I do not know who the Left is - are burdening the pensioner by one unit of GDP, EUR 1.8 billion, and the low-paid tax on another 1.8 billion. I'm asking. Didn't we cut pensions? Of course we're cut. Have we changed the system? Today you do not cut, you are looting the retired with what you are doing. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] I ask: is it possible for you to tell us about social policy? Did Mrs Ahtsioglu find out, although young and her hope and good, that we did not make social policy? When was the first time the subsidisation of the work and the residence, Mrs Ahtsoglou? Haven't you known for years that there was an OEK and that we donated the rent to thousands of families, gave homes and work dwellings? For the first time, do you hear it? You don't talk to us about it, though. You say about the 100 and 90 euros you will pay for the rent and you do not say that you will cut off the two pensions, the 1200 euros. You are not talking about the worker taking EUR 473 per month and with the tax-free will pay EUR 600 per year a tax, i.e. EUR 473 per month is 5800 per year, which is tax-free. That's what's important. There to stand and not to tip. And thank God you envision - good for this Left, not even Madour such dreams! - that you'll give the kids a cherry and a cookie when they go to school. It's not there, it's about finding a job for the father, finding a job to work, having a society that can be opened. You don't know those things, they're foreign to you. I also want to tell you, isn't that enough of the mockery you're making in uniforms? Do they deserve that kind of luck? Is it worth the people who guard us, who are in danger and who give their lives? You are saying that you have brought the amendment. Well done, Mr. Chakaloto! You brought back the overtime 2,77 minutes they took. You are not telling us about the decision of the Council of State, which says that the wages of '12 will come back. That's where we're making the island. This is for the uniforms. You don't give the money they took. What are we going to do with this amendment? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] That's not all. Recently we had a tragic incident. They were killed with the chopper, Minister, worthy lads, heroes, who fell for their homeland, fell for the duty to carry out their duty for their homeland. They don't want money or ever ask for anything. The article 12, which gave the widows privileges, why did you abolish it? Why? Is that so much of a burden? Let's put all the MPs on the payroll so we can give it to them. It's a disgrace. Restore Article 12, which says about those killed on duty, can have some privileges. It's not a big exit. Of course, we are talking about the Greek people today. Do you realize that all Greeks still owe "Michalou"? That's what they say in my village: "And in Mihalo!" Ninety-six billion are the debts to taxi, the government. Twenty-five billion are the debts in the insurance funds. One hundred and four billion are red' loans. So all the Greeks are heading to prison. All Greeks! And here you play it left culture and nirvana, like we're on the moon, on another level. You have to understand that the late debts are drowning the people. Mr President, you will allow me to remember something - it is a common place, of course, but it is a gloomy one - what Abraham Lincoln said: 'You may be making fun of many for a while, you may be making fun of a few for a long time, but you cannot always make fun of everyone'. It's time you paid the bill. The broken debts you have created, the policy you have made, you will pay for them at a price. Elections and self-reliance of the New Democracy. This will be your payment when elections are held.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u450	Thank you very much. The President of the Centroon Union has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u451	Would you excuse me, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u452	Do you want anything, Mrs. Ahchioglu?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u453	Mr President, I would just like to speak for one minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u454	Here you go, Mrs. Ahchioglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u455	There have been various inaccuracies. I've been able to write down for four minutes to answer. The first issue was said yesterday during the debate on constitutionality. There is a misunderstanding about insurance contributions, that they will constitute income that will be taxed. That's not it. It's not a tax provision. It changes the basis for calculating the contributions. It's not a tax provision. The second issue concerns the pensions of farmers, as the honourable Member, Mrs Arabatzi, mentioned. Farmers' pensions are not affected. Farmers' pensions are not part of the recalculation of pensions. It is not a question of farmers' pensions. The third point is that 10 billion has to be achieved to implement positive measures, I think it has been answered three times in the dialogue that has taken place before, regarding the achievement of 3.5%. With regard to the fourth issue of widow’s pensions for those who fell on duty, it is wrong to say that they are being cut or that they have been cut or anything. Asks under Article 4 of L.4387/2016 are excluded.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u456	Some things have been clarified. The President of the Union of Central Banks, Mr Leventis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u457	Good evening, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Today's session, however simple it may seem, is recorded in history. Because it shows the failure of seven years. It shows that we've spent seven years of fruitless austerity. It also shows that foreigners don't trust us. When they ask for early measures that will apply after the agreement has expired, it means that they do not trust us. I do not think there will be any agreement anywhere else in the world that refers to the future, that is to say, that it wants to tie a state for the future. The reason is, they don't trust. Why don't they trust them? For the Prime Ministers said they would make reforms and neither did George Papandreou nor Antonis Samaras nor Tsipras. I do not understand why Mr Stournaras, counting the percentage of reforms that we have implemented, found it 90%, when the foreigners themselves said the same ones at one hundred and forty prerequisites you have done the twelve. I don't understand what kind of conversation this was, Mr. Stournara and who he wanted to pete. When a country asks for advance measures, this means that the country has completely lost its credibility. Because in one program to say "you will take this, you will take it, so that you have one effect" and another when the program is finished, say "you will do that, you will do the other". These are unacceptable things. I would be misled if I were in the Prime Minister's chair and asked for such a thing. Because it's also an insult to the country. It is not just an insult to the Prime Minister's face that he is not trusted by the international community. Let's explain. It's serious. What I would like to stress is that I am following the speeches of the government MPs and I note that 80% of their speeches refer to countermeasures, and if they could, they would also refer to 100% of their speaking time in countermeasures, so that we can live in a virtual reality, which is no action. "The countermeasures are important" and "the countermeasures because you do not vote for them, since they are the foods of the children, are the rents, they are very good." Can anyone object in countermeasures? So if we talk about it, who doesn't want all the children to have kindergartens? Is there a man in the Chamber who doesn't want to? It'll be insane. Is there anyone who doesn't want to eat the kids? I'm putting you on a armor, a corset, I'm stealing you as a human being, and I'm stealing you as a citizen, when we remove pensions and wages, what is that? He's been a family planner, and he's lost by the citizen, but I'm giving you the baby food, I'm putting your kid in a station. Merciful. I don't understand that. Why do you so much project countermeasures? Why are you afraid of measures? Is there no honesty in this Chamber? The people are listening. The people realise that you are afraid of reality and show the other things that are important, but they will come if the programme is correct. If it doesn't echo, all this philosophical debate about countermeasures will be a myth. It's a mistake you chose such a way. At least the right one, when she was taxing, took responsibility for the measures, while you chose a method that all of you have the antidote. I'm giving you poison, but I've prepared the antidote to save you. So why do you give the poison after measures are undone by countermeasures? Why? Why do foreigners want to impose measures? What do they see? They see a pension plan that doesn't come out. You want me to tell you something I said yesterday on TV? Don't count accurately. You count 3.6 billion euros, New Democracy counts 4,9 billion euros. In the budgets, don't be so sure. Because in 2017 I'm afraid of it for pensions. 2017, as a year, may have a further hole in pensions. Don't be sure that the numbers are what you're saying. One mistake made by the government, therefore, is that he did not choose the path of honesty and fairness and speak of the measures and say that it is necessary and take responsibility. In every bill in here, since you vote, you must have the courage to take responsibility. Do not hide behind countermeasures. It is unprecedented for this Chamber to choose such hiding places. You chose something else for the debt. You raised the debt issue and Mr. Tsipras will wear ties, etc. But the debt has been agreed for August 2018. I'm sorry, what do you want to get more about the debt? From now on, to say that the bonds will be transferred further in 2025? Is that what you want? Are you happy with this? In any case, foreigners have committed themselves that in August 2018, if we have implemented the reforms, they are willing to make every sacrifice for the debt, because the country will not be able to stand. He'll need a new schedule. Why did you raise the debt issue? In order to persuade Members to vote today 'yes'. You raised the debt issue, to say "yes, gentlemen, of SYRIZA, you vote hard, but Sybile and the International Monetary Fund will come and cut us off, and we will therefore be entitled". Greece's problem is not a debt problem. Greece's problem is mainly a problem of non-implementation of reforms. The political system...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u458	Shoeble says that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u459	I don't know who says it. I know you're behind your finger. I know you're left-wing and you're going to cut pensions. That's what I know. If we don't make reforms, a hundred debts to cut off, it'll be the country on the ace again. Professions have we opened? Oh, no. To be a cab driver, he has to buy a license from another cab driver.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u460	How's it going to happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u461	How's it going to happen? Go to another country and see how it's done. To be contemptuous, you have to buy a crippled license. Pharmacy you can't open. You know that? If you go to Farsala, let's say, where are the pharmacys five, they'll send you to a village to open a pharmacy. They will tell you 'the pharmacy world is over here in number five'. This is the country with protectionism, with claustrophobia. This is the country. Professions, then, have not been opened. Did we deal with pensions? Another gets three pensions. Three hundred and thirty thousand people get three pensions. A million two hundred thousand get two pensions. Eighty thousand rich people who have to live, because they have rents, deposit interest and company dividends, we do not tease them at all because - he says - they paid contributions. But in a country when the insurance system does not come out what is preferable? Cutting off the NSA from the grandma of 600 euros and taking it to 400 euros or cutting the pension from the one who has money to live anyway. What kind of left are you? I'm shouting about the wealthy pensions. Will the rich man not live if he has an income from rents of 5,000 euros? Why would the millennium be grabbing? Okay, right may have the opinion that it's a right. But do you leftists prefer to cut off the child's grandma and milk rather than the rich man's pension? So ask yourself what are you leftovers? It's very simple. But there are other issues. These are the evaluation issues that the New Democracy has the courage to do. It's the public rating. The public-working people all offer? They're conscientious and they're offering? Do they all offer the municipalities, the CECE, the public? Has there been any evaluation? The ADEDY came out and made a warning strike and said: "If the subject is raised and even an idea for evaluation, we are going for a permanent strike." What does that mean? That if we assess this place in the municipalities, in the CEC and in the public authorities, we will find a terrible rate of wages. This House must study, if it is of the utmost seriousness, where this rate of wages will be transferred. Because I said somewhere that we must set up employment offices in every municipality and also go to the unemployed - one and a half million if it wants to work, because for them no one is talking about, the unemployed are rid of the bills - but also the slow-paid public wages and a programme to be carried forward. However, by continuing to pay late, to vote for some parties or because a political system was wrong and hired, we are not going to get out of the crisis if this carcinoma continues. I say it once and for all to settle down. That is to say, if within the public, the municipalities and the judiciary, it is a serious percentage of wages, to cover things and to wait for the country to come out of the crisis, that is in vain. We don't do anything there either. The New Democracy even says it won't fire. So let him join the opinion of the Central Association that after we have identified the slow-wages - and how do we find them? In a solemn declaration by their heads, their subordinates and citizens who have been in contact with them and after a report on each official has been made and it is considered that it should be carried - the officials through the employment offices should be transferred. What are we gonna do? Can we pay them forever? Because they do not allow conscientious ones to work either. You have in mind one office, if the six people are slow-wage or the other four are working, you know that. Unless we're a benevolent institution, and we give it as an allowance. But there's still damage that the other doesn't pay, when the other guy doesn't go, he looks at his watch, or he gets sick all the time, etc. This Chamber needs to be made clear if we love the euro. Because I also talk to SYRIZA fans throughout Greece and in the first debate they say: "If they want us. They don't want us? Let's go to the drachma." In other words, the story of the two years with Baroques, with Lafazanias left behind, left a world that doesn't know what the right in this country is and with nothing, which we might be responsible for not carrying out reforms, SYRIZA's fan says "Let's go for a drachma". I ask you: With fans of ambiguities and with you going out on the channels and saying 'we are forced, we are blackmailing' can be reformed and the image of the economy can be changed under such circumstances? The New Democracy has also made its mistakes, because it says it will reduce tax scales, reduce HIGH and does not say where, it does not say how it will act. He says he has a program of truth, as I now heard PASOK yesterday has a programme of Greece. Listen to programme names! The New Republic truth, the PASOK new programme Greece. As if it could be Turkey. Parts that ruled and loaded! PASOK charged the public with a million people. If the country went bankrupt by 70% -80%, it was due to the appointments of Andreas Papandreou and Simitis, etc. Now with the program Greece will save the country, Greece will be saved. The first, then, if he wants to claim a serious party, is not that Jakoumatos says: "We will go out self-powered", because this damage does if it is undisturbed and fanaticalally expressed. He's hurting the guy who says it. The first is that you have to convince yourself how to bring investment. Because two years ago you had the government the same people and the same investment you did not bring any. You also took out a bond early to prove we're on the market. It was damage to that bond because they could get that money with 1.2% and you got it with 5%. That's a bad thing. Why should we give this money? To convince us you're taking us to the market, so did you manage? Why hurry that we're doing it? In order for a country to achieve something, the bank's money must be returned on the one hand and investments must be made on the other. If those two clues don't exist by going out on the market what? I see that copyed by Tsipras. He says he'll go out on the markets. Hey, Mr. Tsipras will succeed with Samaras to charge the country at a higher interest rate. Do not think that by going out into the market, we are proving to the international community that the crisis has passed. You're making a big mistake. Reforms are everything. I don't know if Shoeble says so, but the countries that came out of the crisis, from the memoranda, did the reforms, didn't hide behind their finger. That's my opinion. You're making a modification to the state grant, not giving private companies money. That's a big mistake. Do you know why? With private companies clearly when it's money - for money, I'm clearly saying, 'cause I can suddenly give you black anyone - at some point, after two - three years, we could cut off the state grant, when the companies slowly took the courage and gave you two thousand, three thousand, five thousand each etc. And the money could come out of the private sector, as it is in America. Why is that? Do you want us to go back to a completely state-owned political system? What harmed democracy for two years when companies were able to give, what harmed it? The parties may not have had the courage to show them in their books anymore. But giving private people and slowly taking courage to private individuals, and through this way of financing the parties, would also bring time to stop the state subsidy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u462	Why would they give money?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u463	Please don't ask questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u464	Why would they give money? I'm sorry, so in America, those who give me, I have relatives, and they're doing events, and they're making money for the candidates, they're all crooks, and you're the clean ones?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u465	They're making lobbys, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u466	All right, all right. Then you say that with the system of taxation for Members, an issue is solved, an outstanding one, which the Members of Parliament have received less taxable than the rest of the citizens. An inequality is solved. I have stressed that much more serious issue is to become the MPs of three hundred two hundred.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u467	Please, Mr President, conclude.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u468	Don't worry, I hope you're all, I hope you're all re-elected. But in any case, like the Netherlands, they have eighteen million people and only a hundred fifty Members. Okay, that's okay. You want three hundred. The Centro Association promises that an upward power will do this two hundred. And if the government accepted it in two hundred, it would be a really serious step, because it would be EUR 60 million saving, and now it would be EUR 2.5 million saving. Did you hear that? This is the great step taken by Mr Tsipras of EUR 2.5 million. Measuring everything financially. Well, the number of MPs for Greece is two hundred, and a hundred and fifty may fall, but it wants to change the constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u469	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u470	The number of hundreds is sufficient for the population of Greece in my opinion. Unless we have parliamentary rule. There is a question of the unconstitutionality of some bills, and this Chamber votes whether they are constitutional or not. How many people know Constitutional Law here in the Chamber? They know five? In other words, a party-lined room is called to say whether a bill is constitutional. You all vote on a party line. Listen to something. I do, indeed, think that the judges have no right to make financial decisions. I'll tell you why. Because the judge may think we're badly cut off pensions. He'll come to be Prime Minister, give him the pensions, see if he can! So no solution is for every judge to make the Prime Minister. But it is not a solution for the Chamber to make the constitutionalists. He's on his way to this pit, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u471	Please, Mr President, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u472	In New Syros, as far as you know, they have to be paid for seventeen months or you don't know that? You don't know that. Okay. We may get paid here in this Chamber but in New Syros there are seventeen months to be paid. Nobody cared, didn't they? It's a private company. But the gentleman who owns the Syros Neo Syros has another one. It also has the Elefsina shipyards. For Elefsinas shipyards, the Navy gives him clientele, gives him a job to pay, for Syros doesn't give him and he's going to close the shipyard. I hope it's a bit of a concern to the government. You started and had spot dialogues. New Democracy spots SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u473	Please, Mr President, take a look at the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u474	Of course, Mr President. Do you know why there is a spot dialogue? Because there's no serious dialogue and where there's no dialogue, he's assigned one who's modeling and has a advertising company to give you a spot. Nice system, Mr. Tsipras, to chat with a spot. Instead of calling me, you should put a spot on "AND1". [[Noise in the Chamber]] He said Mr. Tsipras in an interview - and it was a big mistake - and he is not allowed to do so - that the world does not react. The world despite the heavy and hard measures that are being implemented, there are tours. At that time Mr. Tsipras didn't offend us. We voted for other parties, we did not vote for SYRIZA. SYRIZA voters were offended, Mr. Tsipras, by you, and that looks like something my wife told me. I'll tell you what my wife told me. When Kostas Karamanlis spoke at the exhibition of Thessaloniki, he asked about Vulgarakis' legal and morality, and Karamanlis answered: "It is legal," and my wife turns around and says: "The people believe in morality. Legality doesn't interest him at all. Now Karamanlis is over." That's what my wife told me. Unfortunately, Mr Tsipras, the same thing told me about you when you insulted the SYRIZA voter that he did not react to being inactive, showing tolerance, he did not care. Whatever you put on him, taxes, wage cuts, he votes. You've made the same mistake. Be careful, because arrogance is a great disadvantage and with arrogance you can earn some more political time, but usually arrogance promotes a very bad end to the arrogant.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u475	Mr President, you are done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u476	Yes, sir. To France, let me say one last,...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u477	Say the last, please, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u478	...cuts like the Right didn't enter the second Sunday and the Socialists took 5%. And a young man came out, Centro. You know that? Get ready, gentlemen. [[Noise in the Chamber]] I'd love to. You're the good of Greece, don't you? I'm not an archemaniac, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u479	Be quiet, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u480	You should be aware that the Centron Association of whatever we do, we will do it with our co-operation governments and not just the self-responsibility that Mr Yakoumatos dreams of. You know this thing, because you, gentlemen of SYRIZA, may not be self-powered, but you have made government with a party that ideologically doesn't fit what you often say left.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u481	That's the majesty of democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u482	Is that the majesty? Be careful if the problem is proved in the near future. As far as you can see, we will vote, Mr Tsipras, only on the provision concerning Members. [[Noise in the Chamber]] They're a few atmospherics. What can we do? You have to say that for them to applaud.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u483	Yes, but you're repositorying them on the basis of the substance. Come on! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u484	We shall vote on the Members' Statute, on the provision for a reduction in Members' wages indirectly, i.e. through an increase in taxation. I will think about it by the time of the vote for the farmers, because I love them very much for the farmers. But I accept the view that I should vote countermeasures to legitimize the measures, and I cannot, Mr Tsipras, do you a favor, Mr Tsipras. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u485	Thank you. Mr Theodorakis has the floor, which is very time-consuming. It'll be over immediately after the process. Then he's the president of Officerial Responsibility. Before you start, Mr. Theodorakis, let me mention something. Mr. Leventis, listen to me. You're an engineer, too. As some numbers have been heard earlier, which have been inadvertently said in relation to Members, I would say that if we have a hundred less Members, savings per year will be EUR 6 million, not EUR 60 million. It's a bit of a difference. Public opinion hears too. You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u486	You're probably wrong, Mr. President. A hundred MPs only get 6 million euros?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u487	Excuse me, 'cause you're the Polytechnic, we said! Otherwise, there would be more to it. Please, Mr Theodorakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u488	The MPs don't have any partners, don't they? What's wrong with them? You only count the wages?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u489	And families have. Mr. Theodorakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u490	Let us begin, ladies and gentlemen, with the great picture, and let us make the account that we have to do at some point. Greece entered the first Memorandum in 2010, the second Memorandum in 2012 and the third Memorandum in 2015. Today, after all this, one and a half million Greeks, most young people, live below the limits of poverty. Part-time and black work are a status, and if you talk, you're just fired. Those who work but don't get paid for months are more than a million. Household money decreased by 33%. Why, then, is Greece locked in the memoirs? Portugal and Ireland have been left three years in the memoranda. Cyprus has only remained for two years and now runs at a growth rate of 3.3%. In Greece, however, the memorials went a set with the lies and the inability of populists, right-wings and left-wings. As far as you, the government majority, have the lies of January 2015 and the lies of September 2015. Genarus what to first! Unnecessary 12,000 euros. Repeal of ENVIRONMENT. Christmas gift to the retired. Minimum wage of EUR 751. And, of course, write off debts to poor borrowers. We closed the banks. We brought the worst memorial in the summer of 2015 and our conflict is known in June 2015, when I told you to bring Junker's deal to sign it. Then you mocked us the way you only knew. But the result was to charge the country some tens of billions of euros. September came with the new lies. I'll only stand out for two. The assurance in September before the elections that we will have a complete lifting of capital controls by the end of 2015 and the creation of three hundred thousand new jobs in two years. It's been twenty of the twenty-four months since then. How many jobs have been created and how many companies closed down? We all make mistakes, but you manage to make the same mistake at all times. You are late to close the evaluation seven months and what have we lost these seven months? We lost at least 1% of GDP, that means about 1,500,000,000 euros. The return of the deposits has stopped. Red loans increased. The government’s overdue debts increased by 500,000,000. The sales to supermarkets, building activity and all that testify to money moving, decreasing and perhaps wondered about your voters, why this seven-month delay, what did you expect to win? Why did you let the lenders constantly add new demands while uncertainty stabbed the economy? I would remind you that last June, you said that the IMF requirement to which you were supposed to resist was 3,600,000,000 meters. And today you bring 4,900,000,000 meters, that is, 1,300,000,000 more, plus all the other mess. Evidently some in the government thought that by pulling time, they would involve our country in the pre-election period in Germany, we would push them and eventually come back as usual. You're pressed and you bring in and you sign it's exactly like in the summer of 2015. "The two that sinned of him not a wise man." Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, it is not indebtedness, it is a philosophical conception of politics. They are your ideals, your SYRIZA and ANEL parties and the thought to customers and not to citizens. You want to live in the cloud "negotiating hard" and in the cloud there are no clocks. There is something worse than lying in political life, ladies and gentlemen, it is the constant lie that creates in society an apathy anymore for the lies that are heard. You get used to lying, it doesn't seem like it anymore, you think it's a given thing, and at this stage we're here today. Young people because of you have identified politics with lies, Mr. Tsipras. I will remind you, it is very recent, it is not from the era of delusion - because obviously in the era of delusion you may say some things that are delusional - this title that has come out in various versions and on television, is from the birthday of SYRIZA's election victory in January 2015, the absolute assurance from Mr. Tsipras 'not even 1 euro additional measures', a assurance of the three - four months. Same as retired people. You're saying the reduction in pensions will be up to 18% another lie. You'll get them another 3,300,000,000 that's from the pension freeze. So it is not 18% reduction, it is multiple. We've been clear from the beginning. To reduce taxes, reduce contributions, strengthen production powers, help exports. In the last seven years of the crisis memorials, the country's largest exportable product is its scientific staff. More than ten thousand people, mostly young, higher education, left for abroad. The state has spent to study these people about 8,000,000,000, and they are estimated to offer the country’s GDP that went about 10,000,000,000. The doctors who left are eighteen thousand, many of them. The Technical Chamber is now deleted every year by six thousand people. Seventy-five thousand free professionals have closed their blocks in one year. So we must stop the brain fleeing. And we, Mr Tsipras, will not get tired of telling you - to give the vote to those who have left, not to lose them, not to cut them off from the national bucket, because without them Greece will never be able to take steps again. In Greece they had things to do, but they're all frozen. There are many billions, dozens, committed to Greece in European investment funds. You report them often too. The money, however, does not come, while many private funds are waiting to enter the country. But in which country? Which country? Why not come as long as we all want, regardless of political direction, investors? Because the government follows an old order. One step forward, two steps back. The example may be Greek. There's more. But it's definitely Greek too. Fifteen years have passed since the Greek was abandoned, five years after the competition and two years since the signing of the agreement. And today, at the offices of the Ministers of Ministers, the last debate took place in Mrs Konordos's office - whether it is an archaeological site or an airport's forest. And there are Syrians in the area that they're going to tell you - you've heard it, it's not a joke - that the runway that landed the plane of Karamanlis in '74 is a historic monument and we have to respect it. Regressions, therefore, continuously demolish bureaucrats and create ever new obstacles. Wherever they're going, they'll talk about drilling, as long as we avoid giving the land to invest. To sum up, if we do not get away with heavy taxation, endless bureaucracy, slow administration of justice and the delay in issuing permits, we must forget about investors. Mr Tsipras, in February here in the House you said to me that the established sums from tax evasion were 1 billion and that recovery progressed rapidly. I heard it carefully. February, now. He's got a cutter, you told me, in looting, remorse and tax evasion, which is obviously something we all want. But what thieves did you get to see? We asked for the official information from the Ministry of Finance. From the lists and tax evasion we have collected only 80 million from the smuggling of beverages and cigarettes only 31 million. Everywhere, i.e. the same incapacity and the inability are constantly bringing new measures. But is there another solution? For us, yes, there is. Reduction of taxation, reduction of contributions, reduction of ministries, reduction of Ministers' advisers. All this is interconnected. It's the same chain. Potami is the only party that dares to say that we need to free the public from the armies of the parties. Do you know what's going on in public today? The trade unionists of the New Democracy and PASOK are on the fridge and tomorrow that the New Democracy will come to things - if it comes - as the polls show, SYRIZA trade unionists will be on the fridge. Because that's how the party state works. Fridges - deforestation and the account in society. You've increased the surpluses. Yes, be careful with excessive taxation, with a reduction in public investment, with a payment stop, all the funds have been cleared and a fund has been filled. But be careful with one detail. If something increased in 2016 expenditure, do you know what it is? It's the cost of government payroll. The figures show that for the first time in the crisis, since the beginning of the memoranda, there has been a significant increase in the number of civil servants. He wants human heads to build the party state. SYRIZA Austerity - ANEL enables you to strengthen your own people. At the same time as not disturbing balances, the mobility of civil servants is being postponed again. The river has prioritised the dissolution of the party state. We are the only ones who can do this because we do not have commitments from the past and we do not have party mechanisms anywhere in the state. It remains, of course, for the citizens to decide whether this should be done. We take the risk of the bold proposal and they must take the risk of their own decision. To think that the party state failed and lies failed with him. The time has come for progressive solutions. Instead, government gentlemen, to do some selfish things, you also invented at this difficult time for the country communal trick. You found the word you believe will save you. Countermeasures. Countermeasures in what? Countermeasure to a criminal delay? Promising future profits, when you know that the probability of profits is low, is an act of deception. It is characteristic of Article 15, which describes how the countermeasures are applied. It will be decided by the Commission and the International Monetary Fund. The Minister will simply issue the relevant FEC. It is not a countermeasure for us to reduce business tax from 29% to 26%, which you say will take place from 2019. It's something that should have happened since yesterday. And in five years' time, we say that this tax can be reduced to 20%. I mean, we're longer than McCrone, who's promised a 8% drop. Then it's the multi-advertised countermeasure with kindergarten stations. By 2020, you say, a hundred thirty-five thousand children. If we are to reduce the party state today, if the offices of the ministers stop being public services, then we would find the 120 million that would enable all children to be in kindergartens. But let's choose. The kids or the party officials? The free professionals or the party employees? The decline in the insurance contributions of the free professionals is the latest major success of the SYRIZA - ANEL. You destroy them, dismantle them, and go out to the perimeter and listen to them. They're united toward you for the first time. Remember the days when you were from there and with both hands some of you were snucking towards the House, where some were voting for memos. Now with both hands you will vote your own memorandum. The truth is, you've been leveling the record of the previous ones. Two-two. Two memorials, two memorials. We have learned that these days Mr. Tsipras picks a tie. He's looking for the right one to celebrate the haircut, I imagine, of the greatest part of the debt, as promised to the Greek people. But I'm afraid there's a deception here too. At some point the debt will be cut when the Germans find it with the International Monetary Fund. That's what you're waiting for. And have the courage to tell the Greek people. The country must, however, be ready, with a patriotic proposal and negotiating possible debate, a debate which will probably take place in 2018 on the debts of the Eurozone. Debts even countries of the hard core. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall conclude. In the summer of 2015, the country threatened sudden death. We did it. We barely kept you on the right side. But we cannot do the same at all times. We're not kiddies. Your endless negotiations, yours and the defeats. The river will not vote for the new memorandum of SYRIZA - ANEL. But our time-consuming proposal not to have tax immunity has been accepted. We'll vote for it. As we will vote for, even partial reduction in the tax burden on agricultural production. These are the two articles that the River will vote for. By voting for the new memorandum from the left SYRIZA and the far right ANELs, the cycle of nationalism in Greece is closed. Perhaps the age of the "solotoba" is also closed. The resistance 'cocks', ladies and gentlemen, you know, are probably more dangerous than the previous's Memorandum 'cocks'. Because they degrade the concept of resistance and ultimately enhance the conservative reflexes of society. To date, what society must understand is that commemorative "cocks" and resistance "cocks" end up in the same fiasco. We need another policy, from another political agenda, from another political philosophy, from another culture and another strategy. Justice and development in an open society, loyal to European ideas, with bold reforms and priority for young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u491	Thank you very much. I call to Stepma the Chief of Officer's Reconciliation, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u492	Ladies and gentlemen, in a few hundred and forty-four Members of SYRIZA and nine Members of the Independent Greeks will hear their name in the roll-call vote for the fourth memorandum. They won't think much about it. They won't hesitate. I'm sure they won't be measured with their conscience. They will vote on both hands and so will the cycle of the biggest political fraud that the country has ever known! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Two and a half years ago, with the help of the Golden Dawn and the ANELs, SYRIZA dragged Greece into early elections, while the country came out of the crisis. We had then, after six years of recession, again positive growth rate. We had primary surpluses, however, resulting from reductions in taxes and contributions and with the State normally discharge its obligations towards citizens and businesses. The country was twice on the markets in 2014 and was preparing for a permanent exit from the spring of 2015, while at the same time having a security network on the so-called preventive support line. What we are living today is a nightmare, but a nightmare that was not a legality but a result of the disastrous choices of the current government. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It is solely because of Mr Tsipras and Mr Kammenos, Mr SYRIZA and Mr ANEL. The Greek pervasive society is watching our homeland turn into a colony of austerity and even without an end date, indefinitely. The reality is raw. If Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Kammenos had not fooled the Greeks, they had not come to power as they did and did not do what they did, Greece today would have come back to growth and would have been a normal eurozone country, such as Cyprus, like Portugal, like Ireland. And we would be discussing today how we are all going to build our common future together, instead of seeing a government trying to hide the truth in the ruins it created. The data for the last thirty months has been relentless. Citizens experience them every day. They understand they have before them a government that does that he forgot what he was saying, but he didn't learn anything from what he did. According to the forecasts made by the European Commission at the end of 2014, our country's GDP at the end of 2017 would reach EUR 207 billion, Mr Tsipras. According to your forecasts in the medium term you submitted, the country's GDP at the end of 2017 will reach EUR 181 billion. We have EUR 26 billion lost national wealth - and this loss is permanent, Mr Tsipras - three lost years for Greece and 14.2 billion additional burdens for the Greeks. This is the total account Tsipras - Kammenos. It may even be that today the government is talking about fraud, but the reality is that it is fraud, normal political fraud like that of which we have never seen in modern Greek history. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because even the protagonists of the first quarter, the ones you chose, and together you brought the country to the edge of the cliff, publicly confess what we all know. They declare without shame that the promises were in the knowledge of the prime minister of falsehood. Really, Mr. Tsipras, what do you have to say about Mr. Varoufakis' statements that when he read the Thessaloniki program, he said, "a steam from his ears, why was he writing nonsense?" I put the relevant abstention in the Minutes. I expect an answer to that. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I must, of course, point out that his position has not made it particularly difficult for him to take over a minister, because, as you know, the programmes have made it difficult for many people to put their chairs to the ground. The verdict of history is ruthless, as is the conscience of society. You are all accomplices to political fraud. You trap the country in a future without any prospect, just to remain in power. But you know, Mr Tsipras, the anger of the citizens is a river that doesn't come back and the envy always follows. Today society needs what you cannot offer. It needs modesty, from the truth, from the real hope, from a realistic vision. When he sees these things, society will once again unite, trust will return, together will return and hope and the Greeks will once again believe in ourselves, in our powers, in our potential. All nightmares are over sometime and the age of ugliness is nearing its end. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL, when you went up to power, you promised the citizens three things - I remember them: First, that you will put an end to austerity and tear the memorials. And today you're signing two with your two hands! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In the inappropriate third memorandum of 2015, which you have blackmailed, you have now added another EUR 4.9 billion for the citizens, with a cut in one wage for the employees due to the reduction in tax and two pensions for pensioners. And all this when you commit the country to high primary surpluses, to an austerity without an end date. You brought greater austerity, even than the one you were asked for, great feat!, putting the economy in recession and dismantling productive Greece. Of course, the fourth memorandum - and I know that is particularly disturbing to you - penalises those who are supposed to protect, Mr Tsipras, the weakest, the pensioners, the low-paid, the first-time tax payers and those who see a pension being lost. Secondly, you promised that you would regain national sovereignty and stand up to foreigners and from the "go back, madame Merkel" we went to "help, Mrs Merkel". You extended the committee for at least three years by the fourth memorandum. You have pledged the country's property through the U.S. Fund for ninety years and, of course, you are responsible for the time in which any measures in the International Monetary Fund are implemented. What you said you wanted to get rid of the program, now you ask it to stay and hand him over the keys to the country. You have built your political career on raw lies, vulgarities, to sign, finally, the greatest assignment of national sovereignty in recent history. You promised to finish with the old and the complexion. Yes, sir. And eventually you are more old than the old and certainly more ruthless and more cynical than any power system has passed through the country. You are creating a new party army and you are building a new client state against the Constitution and the laws, against the rulings of the highest courts. You appoint public contractors, you arbitrarily permanent them, until, of course, your illegal appointments are suppressed in the courts. You are once again putting people in a hostage, taking advantage of them obscene. You've made the constitution of the country a barber and who still knows, judging by your leaks, what you're still planning to play with the institutions. I am sure, however, that the guardians of the community are aware of. You have intervened veteranly in justice, as the judicial associations constantly denounce you. Drive, ignore and threaten the independent authorities. You went to check the broadcasting scenery with the best friends, with the "guns" and with the competition - parody of Mr. Pappa, who despite your raw interventions in justice, went down to the St.E., but before and after you did what you could...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u493	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u494	You did everything you could to dismantle those media that didn't agree with you and didn't get used to playing your game. And all this while ERT has become YENED, it has overcome every measure of pro-government propaganda, resulting in almost zero viewing in information, because of course the world is aware of it. You are undermining Parliament itself. The House has never been deceived this way. You build methodically a system through transactions and extortion. You use the mechanisms of the state, threatening your political opponents. Everyone now knows that once a left man, Mr Tsipras, has changed to an unreserved authority, there are no moral obstacles to keep the privileges of power indefinitely. Do not rush to react. These are not my words. He is Mikis Theodorakis, a left-wing fighter and a symbol of democracy. I'm filing it. Please let Mr. Tsipras read it at some point.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u495	Quiet, please, quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u496	You don't see us. That's your left hand. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] In everything you promised - I know that you are disturbed by this, I know but you will hear it, don't worry - you have failed, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. You have failed miserably, and if you had even had an elementary shame, you would have resigned, allowing people to change the country's course. But, you know, shame - what shame is - is this inner voice, which shows us the right way and forces us to confront ourselves with our conscience - is a word unknown to you. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. President, will you enforcing order in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u497	I'll try. Please be quiet. Be quiet! Stop commenting! Go on, Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u498	I would like to remind you, Mr Tsipras, of what you said on 25 January in the editors' newspaper. I don't have it in growth like Mr. Theodorakis, but I'll read it to you, Mr. Tsipras. I will read them to you to hear them, although you know them very well. I read, Mr Tsipras: 'We have stated in the most emphatically that there is no possibility of legislating a further EUR 1 than the agreement provides and much more for the period after the end of the programme'. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] You can applaud too if you want! You continue, Mr. Tsipras, saying: "The request for additional measures is not only foreign to the Greek Constitution. It is a stranger to the rules of democracy. It is a stranger to the European acquis. In a favoured European democracy that is not even allowed to ask for it, and that is not a question of a government, it is a question of dignity and self-respect for a people and a country." I'm filing the interview in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above-mentioned interview, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Of course, Mr Tsipras, your MPs have rushed and reproduced the same. You are the same today, who will vote with both hands in addition to what is provided for in the agreement. Where has dignity and self-respect gone now? What did Mr. Chakalotos say? He said he'd quit if the tax-free falls below 9,000 euros. You are disturbed, Mr Chakaloto, to remind you of this, but on your own, you know, you made the commitment. We didn't ask you. Instead, you are going to tax for the first time our fellow citizens who make 500 euros a month. Not to forget the Minister of Defence, who assured the officials of the Armed Forces and the Security Corps that he would protect their earnings and return the retrospectives, to bring no consultation, a series of interventions that make our soldiers, our porters, our firemen, our police officers to be misled. Behind the government, behind the Prime Minister, behind the Minister for Finance, two parties, MPs who vote for everything, are coming behind the Minister for Defence, as long as they remain in the parliamentary chairs for a while. You know, we voted for memos, we didn't do it with such enthusiasm. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In this absolute decline, then, let's go see what you're voting on. Let's go see the fourth memorial. This is a thousand pages of forty binding action. It's the heaviest and literally not just transport. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It contains the fourth Memorandum of Understanding beyond the third Memorandum, which is why we call the fourth Memorandum. And its implementation, of course, is subject to ongoing assessments of creditors, who will judge the timing of implementing the measures. Because with the lenders you have, it seems, a sacred alliance has been concluded, because the evaluation has finally closed when you met all their demands. You assemble measures of improper, excessive budgetary austerity to remain in power. You've finally become the best advertisement of austerity in the Eurozone. As always things have a name. For anyone who does not understand the title: "Supplementary Memorial", signed by Tsipras - Kammenos. It is not a normal memorandum, however, because it has a peculiarity. It does not provide for any additional funding. You asked for money without measures and you take hard measures without money for the country! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The fourth memorandum is serious and unjust. It contains 4.9 billion new measures, which were not requested a year ago and which bear the seal of the government's unreliableness. With these measures, the total account of the Tsipras - Kammenos Governments amounts to EUR 14.2 billion. Twelve billion was the programme of benefits in Thessaloniki. Mr. Varoufakis read this. He put on a number. And you're finally taking measures of EUR 14.2 billion. How many times more than Hardouvel's email? Your math? Nine and a half times more than Hardouvelis email! If we had implemented this, we'd be done with the memos. That is what you are voting on today, affecting the economically weaker! With the tax reduction, up to three pensions can be lost and one wage for each low wage. Instead of giving the thirteenth pension, you both cut the twelfth and twelfth. A million three hundred thousand Greek taxpayers have been charged for the first time by reducing duty and by tax rate to 20% and a million four hundred thousand professionals and farmers are even more burdened by the different method of calculating insurance contributions, increases ranging from 37% to 61%. That's what you're voting on today. Despite your assurances that there are no measures for 2018, the fourth memorandum has measures for both 2017 and 2018. The reduction in the income tax on medical services is abolished. The reduction of the income tax withholding on earnings from employed persons and pensions is abolished. It decreases by 40% the heating allowance, which will naturally affect the economically weaker. Social benefits for vulnerable groups are being abolished and, of course, collective redundancies are being released from administrative approval, contrary to what you have said all these months! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Special wages have been cut since 2017, in particular those of the Armed Forces and the Security Bodies, with wage cuts and the abolition of wage promotions. Instead of retrospectives, you get them now and now. That's what you're voting on today. All this is trying to hide it behind the alleged countermeasures. The countermeasures are simply wrapping the package of measures while insisting on lying. You have reached the point where you are saying that the alleged countermeasures are - it says - more than measures. Five billion are the measures; 7 billion are the countermeasures. If that is the case, I have a proposal for you, Mr Tsipras, do not take measures, take 2 billion countermeasures now. Why don't you do it? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In any case, since you so much like this mixture of policy in the fourth memorandum, which on the one hand cuts pensions and on the other gives benefits, why are you taking it in 2019? Why don't you apply it from now? Because you know very well that the countermeasures will never be implemented and the measures will be implemented by the next government. You are laughing at the whole Greek society in person! You are also saying that measures and countermeasures will be implemented together. Another lie. For read, ladies and gentlemen, carefully what Article 15 says. What does he say about countermeasures? Firstly, it requires the vote now and the full implementation of measures of EUR 4.9 billion. Secondly, it requires the permanent achievement of high primary surpluses. Thirdly, it requires countermeasures, evaluation by the institutions and above all by the International Monetary Fund. This will decide when and how, obviously, countermeasures will be given. And fourthly, of course, they only apply to the part of the overrun of the target of 3.5%. In other words, the countermeasures must be fully implemented, a surplus of 5.5% must be achieved. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Don't shout. Because Mr. Friend told you this yesterday, who revealed your new story. Here's what your colleague said. The worst thing, however, is that the countermeasures, Mr Tsipras, and if applied, do not even concern those affected by the measures. A pensioner with a mixed pension of EUR 915, who will lose two pensions, one from the reduction of pensions and one from the tax, what exactly will he get, Mr Tsipras, from the countermeasures? Absolutely nothing. Do you think there is even one Greek who is looking forward to implementing the countermeasures today, to expect the productive economy to be dissolved by excessive taxation, in order to exceed the target of 3.5% in order to increase school aggregation and rental subsidies? And especially for school pools, is it possible for a European country to link children's nutrition to surpluses of more than 3.5%? What do you want? Finish the real economy with outrageous surpluses, so that you can make micro-policy benefits? The role of a government, Mr. Tsipras, is to get the country out of the blocks and put it back on the path of development. But you can't. You made your failure fourth memorandum, lies and discord. Still, it's never too late. It's never too late to make a move in the right direction. Eat the people from the unnecessarily heavy burdens which you have imposed on them. Because if you had a plan, if you had any knowledge, you would have put less taxes and the surplus for 2016 would have been smaller. But now, come and lighten the citizens, not in 2019. Now that you've taken them away for no reason, now return them. So vote with us today on the amendment that we tabled to reduce the immediate reduction of HPAI by 20%, the abolition of excise duty on wine, the reduction of VAT on agricultural products from 24% to 13% and the full financing for children's stations, because these measures relieve even a bit of every Greek family. Do not just limit yourself, Mr Tsipras, to reducing VAT for farmers. In addition, I remind you that I have proposed it from my speech in Thessaloniki in September 2016. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But you do not, Mr Tsipras, and you do not do it for two reasons: firstly, because you do not want to see the New Democracy programme adopted and, secondly, because you are obviously concerned about how the revenue will go this year. Only a simple question arises here. If you are not sure that 865m euros could be repaid with this year's surplus target of 1.75%, how exactly will you return EUR 3.6 billion to a surplus of 3.5%? It's just math, Mr. Tsipras. You're an engineer, too. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So the reality is clear. You've delayed the negotiation so many months. You took the Greek economy back. You put the country in a new recession. The numbers are already coming for the first quarter to prove it. You brought new measures, new burdens and new austerity. However, the most important question arises here: what exactly did you gain, Mr Tsipras, in these fifteen months of supposedly tough negotiations? Why did you not complete the second evaluation a year ago? Because what we know is that a year ago no one asked us for these measures for the simple reason that these measures were not included in the third memorandum. What, then, and the evaluation of a programme ending in 2018 resulted in a new programme ending in 2021? With whose authority do you make commitments that go beyond the end of your parliamentary term? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You have no popular legitimacy for what you are going to vote on today. You vote only because you think you can remain in power with an alibi - the big alibi! - I've had the debt. Only you eat of the ready, why don't you say that debt decisions have been largely made since November 2012 by the Samara government.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u499	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u500	Of course our creditors also have a great responsibility, which this promise has not been made. But you also have a responsibility that you have gone to blow the country out of the air and turned it back at least three years and, of course, frozen all the relevant decisions. You're bragging about the debt when you know you've earned nothing new. Mr Tsipras, you are well aware that the margins for intervention in debt are quite well known. It is time, indeed, for the lenders to meet their commitments. We're telling them in all the European forums. You don't see what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u501	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u502	But, Mr Tsipras, don't lie any more that you're not supposed to apply the measures unless the debt issue is resolved. For anywhere in the thousand pages, there is no such provision in the sixty - four articles in the fourth memorandum. On the contrary, the second paragraph of the explanatory statement contains the following phrase. I read it: 'These provisions are being adopted as a precondition for the start-up', take note of 'the debate on the definition of medium-term debt measures'. I am presenting the excerpt from the explanatory statement in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Just greek vote first and then we see. So don't put free cheese on SYRIZA's executives. They'll vote anyway. For the chair, they do it, not for the debt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u503	Please be quiet. Don't comment. Watch with care.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u504	On the subject of the tie, I just want to say: Mr. Tsipras, you are able to put a tuxedo on the beach to mask the new lies you're talking about! Ladies and gentlemen, your program isn't coming out. And your program does not come out for two reasons: The first is because the policy mix is distorted, with more taxes than society and the economy can with no real will to reduce the size of the state and its degree of intervention in the economy. Secondly, because you have neither the knowledge nor the will to get the country out of the crisis, since you are the ones with your wrong choices constantly replicate it. Those who imagine that suddenly Mr. Tsipras will turn into an effective reformist force, remember that frogs are transformed into princes only in fairy tales. Who of your Government will unlock investments, launch militarisations, implement the big changes that the country needs? Mr. Spirtzis, who with soul pain, tears in his eyes sign the sale of the OSE and then seeks to create a new state OSE? Mr. Tsironis, the Minister for the Environment, who confessed ten days ago that he was against the Greek investment? Mrs. Conniordos, who almost blocked by mistake, says the works in the Greek because of the preservers? Mr. Skourletis, who opposes the sale of PPC on one day and on the other, denounces interests and will today vote for the sale of its percentage? Mr. Papadimitriou, who, as an academic, was in favour of Grexit, but now as Minister, is he against? So, ladies and gentlemen, there are no investments or changes in the state. And the country will flow between corruption and incorporation. We don't need political chameleons. Determined and responsible reformers we need with a programme, with vision and determination. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr. Tsipras, in 2015 you dragged the country three times in elections. First you relied on the backs of responsible counterpopulation to save the country from the edge of the cliff. Immediately after you have called for elections - remember it well, I imagine - in September on the grounds that you need a fresh people's mandate to implement the third programme, the third memorandum. And of course, you have strengthened the effort for political consensus by deceiving the political leaders, whom you assured you will not make early elections. I would like to remind you, Mr Tsipras, what you said in your complaint on 20 August 2015 immediately after the resolution of the third memorandum. Listen, it's interesting, what Mr. Tsipras said, ladies and gentlemen: "The people's mandate I took on the 25th of January has exhausted its limits. And now the sovereign people must take the floor again. You, in your vote, will decide whether we have represented the country with determination and courage required by the difficult negotiations with the lenders. In your vote, you will decide whether the agreement we have reached provides the preconditions for overcoming the present deadlocks, for the economy to recover, for us finally to enter the discharge procedure from the memoranda and the cruelty they entail." [[Here from the upper southern theories are thrown into Room Fun]] [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr President, if you want me to calm down the Chamber so that I can continue. I don't see her very calmly.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u505	I understand she's calm, though. Excuse me, but I have a different point of view. Let's move on. It's up to you, too. You're experienced. It was an incident.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u506	You said, Mr. Tsipras, "You, by your vote, will decide" "who and how can lead Greece to the difficult but at last hopeful path that opens before us, who and how can proceed with surely, with a firm step in the necessary deep reforms needed by the place". I'm presenting your complaint to the minutes. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above-mentioned proclamation, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Honestly, I couldn't say better. You said everything about us. So today, from the Step forward of Parliament, if you have had little political equilibrium left, do what you did in 2015, namely, after you have voted on measures and countermeasures, resign! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And give the word back to the sovereign people, as you said in 2015, the people with their vote to decide who and how it can lead Greece to the difficult path that opens before us. As you said in 2015, Mr. Tsipras. So I challenge you, do the same now. Give the sovereign people the opportunity to decide for themselves for his future. Everything you did in 2015 to do now. Give citizens the opportunity to choose the truth or lies, the true expectation of changes or the nightmare of overtaxation, creativity and growth or poverty. But, Mr. Tsipras, you won't. Because you know that, when the ballots open, the door out of power will also be opened. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Only the institutional order will be restored. Because democracy, Mr Tsipras - you know - requires elections. You want, you don't want to, you're going to do it sometime. The slower the worse for the country, but you know it, the worse for you. We represent two different worlds, ladies and gentlemen. If you now want to join the liberal changes that this place needs, then political competition, Mr Tsipras, becomes very simple: who can bring investment, who can create new jobs, stimulate entrepreneurship, make your state more competitive. But you don't know that, or you can't make it. There's a field on which, in fact, you're unbeatable. This is the stadium of populism. But in the field of real policy, the one dealing with how to invest, how to create new jobs, how to make your state more effective, let me say, borrower, Mr. Tsipras, an older phrase of yours, that comparing one with you is like stealing a church.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u507	You're very welcome. Quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u508	Ladies and gentlemen, today is a dark day for Greece. But we will not allow fear, frustration, to nest people's souls. Fortunately the potential of the country is much more than your own and Greece and the Greeks and Greeks are better than your ministers, so the country - you know - is still standing on its feet today, despite your inadequacy, and still works contrary to the example you give. The citizens show courage and courage, even though they know that because of the SYRIZA administration - ANLE a lot of the sacrifices they are called upon to make have gone missing. They continue today to pay unfair, excessive taxes, to pay unbearable contributions, to fight despite their daily poorness, to show touching solidarity and fruitfulness, to respect the institutions you abuse, to show at every step that they are better than their political leadership. And that is why the country has not collapsed. Because despite your lies, despite your mistakes, there is a people with conscience, a people with soul, a people with patriotism, with dignity, fighting for a better tomorrow, fighting for a strong Greece, for a proud Greece. And do not interpret, Mr Tsipras, in arrogant manner, the fact that citizens are not escalating as the attitude of accepting your choices. Go for a walk out of Maximus, see if you can move beyond the bells. And do not take advantage of the fact that there are too many Greeks who are protesting today, but who are protesting civilisedly, without hailers and without disasters. And don't underestimate the ever-growling, silent rage, because, when she breaks out and manifests, you'll be beg not to find yourself in her path. The fact that the political rhetoric and political vulnerability of the times you were in the opposition are not a sign of weakness is a sign of political maturity, political responsibility and political ethos. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It is a conscious choice in our effort to unite all Greeks, because only together can we achieve the regeneration of our country. Greece does not need a new round of tramps and screams for traitors and hangers. There is no need for a new round of demagogic promises and divisive policy. But, when the polling time comes, you have no doubt. People and history will show no leniency to the worst government in post-multiple. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] This people, these citizens, who every day give their own battle for a better Greece, will be expressed by us without discrimination for yesterday. The hope of society is our mission. It's a responsibility. There's another way and we'll all walk him together. And citizens know we can do this. We know that we can achieve this with another policy mix, with less taxes, to breathe citizens and businesses, with the reduction of state spending, with major changes in public administration, with the state's band and with investments, so that the children who left the years of the crisis will come back, but not only, to find jobs and those who are at the corner, those who are on the sidelines today. This is what happens when the relationship of trust between the citizens and the state is restored. Greeks and Greek women don't want a Greek who lives with piles and benefits. They want a Greece that gives jobs, provides security and creates opportunities. And they certainly don't want the dream of today's youth to be a fixed-term contract, so that their political patron can then appoint them to the public. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] We do not want a Greece that is dragging, but a Greece that is inspiring, enthusiastic, will give real hope. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to end by pointing out that we are a power of responsibility. We are fully aware of the historical context. We are fully aware of our historic mission. We have our own plan to get out of the crisis. When the time comes, we will put it in the Greek people's crisis, a Greek project of a European Greece. And with the credibility of a responsible force and with the confidence of Greek society, we will claim smaller and more realistic surpluses from what you have committed the country, by reducing taxes, by reducing contributions and, at the same time, bringing the state together. We will not come to this debate as disgraceful, but as equal partners with a well-processed national reconstruction plan, not only limited to structural changes in the memorandum, but above and beyond. Because we will implement - because we believe them - reforms that will free the economy, house the state, bring growth and, above all, new jobs. And yet, we will not tolerate the extinction of productive Greece and the extermination of the middle class and youth. Greece is not worth celebrating the two hundred years since the revolution of 1821 with Mr Tsipras' fourth memorandum. And one last thing: Agreements that share the clothes of a bankrupt Greece are void for us. Your party armies are the only benefiting from your power stay and some pimps who have a good time with you. You see, a few simple words have time and value. And even though some people are trying to support you, because you've been found with bosoms, you're on your own. Alone with society across the street. So vote on your own measures. Your own submerged in complacency, cynicism and arrogance of power. On your own, you can rinse out on the fictitious swimming pool of the countermeasures. The fourth memorandum is all yours, SYRIZA Memorandum - ANEL, Tsipras - Kammenos Memorandum, exclusively your responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u509	Thank you very much. For recovery in relation to the image - there may have been some misinterpretation - I say that it was forty-nine minutes of the position of the President. I'm saying it in relation to the image. I put twice as many times as 20 minutes in the timer. I say it because they see us from the outside. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty-eight students and students and three educational attendants from the 1st Municipal School of Lefkada. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs. Gennamas, you wanted the floor for a point of order. Please, we're listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u510	Mr President, you have the responsibility of organising the debate. That is undeniable. However, the approach being taken today is really unique in time for parliamentarians. It is customary for the government to listen to the whole of the Opposition and for the Prime Minister to be placed then, as a sign of respect for the political opponents, but also for practical reasons, because he must listen to the whole criticism. It is clear that the Prime Minister cannot afford to hear any more criticism. Isn't that right, Mr. Tsipras? So we'll talk anytime.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u511	Thank you very much. Some things need to be clarified, to be clear. Specific hours had been given, after discussions with the offices of the political leaders for the afternoon. In the period 17.30' to 18.30' there was no availability from at least two political leaders - and it is not here to mention - after repeated communications from the services. From what you saw, four or five more colleagues from those on the list spoke, and they did not speak sixty-six of those on the list and also two of the ministers who would then speak. That covered this 'vacuum' - the word 'vacuum' - I put it in introductory terms, as it was very substantial speeches - and we spent the time in the rest of the time. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u512	You changed the show.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u513	The result of this series and time is due to it, as it has done. I'm telling you straight away. Keep your point of view, but it's not a matter of manipulation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u514	We get it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u515	Put us in the day after tomorrow! Put us after the vote!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u516	Mr. Loverdo, would you like me to report this to you? It is not right to refer to your fellow political leaders who did not have the readiness, whether because of transport or because of preparation, to enter the order that they had to take.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u517	What about us?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u518	Not you. It became very clear what I said. We had a problem and it was solved like this. It is not at the expense of Mrs Gennamas, because the process will continue. Mr. Kammenos will be here. The Minister of Finance will close. I mean, it's still going on. Understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u519	We get it. We understood it very well!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u520	Thank you very much. Prime Minister Alexios Tsipras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u521	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have watched with great interest, but also with sincere understanding, the effort made by the Chief of Police Vice-Population, once again in this Chamber, to convince us and convince the Greek people who are watching, that we are again destroying the country, that we are dismantling the economy that we are sinking the economy and society and that we received paradise in December 2015 and we have taken the country to hell. And it has not brought anything new about the arguments that have been constantly being put on the agenda for a long time. And she doesn't just reproduce them. With an unprecedented superficiality in terms of communication and systemic media, the very same argument is reproduced over and over and over again. But, following on from Mr Mitsotakis, I thought that in the end it is not enough in politics to have superpower in the media, to have all the channels and canalarchs, all newspapers and publishers, all the polls and polls, all the social media, in any case, the well-paid internet trolls, is not enough. And you know why it's not enough? It is not enough because at the end of the day, it is not just communication policy. Communication is important, I do not underestimate it, but politics is not just communication. Politics wants a strategy and a communication strategy, but also a strategy, a mind and a soul. And above all, as strong as you are in the middle of communication, politics has to do with reality, with experiences, with life, with people's expectations. And I am watching you all this time, Mr Mitsotakis, to make this remarkable effort to convince, but the feeling we have, most people in this Chamber, I believe, the majority of those who are watching is that you cannot convince. Some will rush to say - and I want to make it clear that I do not agree - that you do not manage, because you do not have it. No, it's not that. You know, I don't underestimate it at all as an opponent. I barely think you are a very powerful opponent. Do you know why you can't do it? You do not do it because you are entangled in a deadlocked strategy, in the strategy of the false prophet who constantly prophesies destruction and is constantly disproved. For one disaster, two destruction, three destruction, and when the destruction does not come, it is probably the one who prophesies it. And you know, this strategy you have chosen and political strategy and communication strategy, has an end date. At first, you are creating a tension, you are attracting the interest of the audience, but as long as the time goes, you are in danger of being graphic. And I'm very afraid hearing you today, if you go on like this, that's not a far-fetched moment. Just imagine, Mr Mitsotakis, in two years' time since today, in May 2019, when we will be just before the European elections, in an election period, where it will be the first ballot to be confronted. Because, you know, politics and parties are in the poll, when it's set up, not in the polls or in the media. So imagine, in May 2019, when you will have closed near three and a half years Chief of Officerial Opposition and at the same time, three and a half years, Chief of a party that will ask for and anticipate uninterruptedly for three and a half years of election, and these will not come. You will be the leader of a party for three and a half years that will provide endless cuts, disasters and failures, but neither will the cuts be activated nor will disasters and failures be verified and made a reality. For three and a half years! How do you really think about that? Is it a serious strategy for you and your party? Today, Mr. Mitsotakis, you had a chance. You probably didn't understand it, but you had a chance. You had an opportunity, a great opportunity for your resignation, to change a narrative. And this opportunity you throw away. Why, what do you say today to the Greek people who listen to us? You tell the Greek people two things. Two things on the substance, the others you have said them over and over and over and over. Two things. That the government brings a fourth memorial and that countermeasures are dusty air. Yes, sir. I, Mr Mitsotakis, will keep these statements, and I would also ask my colleagues to prepare the slots of the European elections two years from now, with these statements, so that the Greek people can remember what you have been saying for so many years. Because in May 2019, Mr Mitsotakis, which will be a real pre-election period for European elections, not only will we not be in a fourth memorandum, not only will we not have a fourth memorandum, as you say today, but we will already be spending almost a whole year outside memoranda, because we will definitely be going out in the summer of 2018, Mr Mitsotakis, having successfully completed the third programme and even on time, may even before. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And we will also have in May 2019 and five months in 19, where five months will normally have activated all the countermeasures that you now call "air cut off", all the countermeasures that you are currently preparing to vote against in the roll-call vote one by one. "Aeronaut air" for you, but then they will alleviate - because they will be close to 2 billion - hundreds of thousands of our households and fellow citizens who are listening to you today and will not forget that you have voted against them. They won't have forgotten it in two years from today. And I ask you, Mr Mitsotakis: How will you go to the '19 European elections'? With what record and with what credibility? Who's gonna believe you then? [[Noise in the Chamber]] I hope and you know...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u522	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u523	I listened with care, I want you to listen. I hope that, because you will tell me 'you are now being cut off for your opponent's strategy'. You look at the country would be happy if it could now have an Opposition that could understand that it is necessary to change now. Now. Now that the opportunity is given for the first time after seven years in this place to plan for the next day, and so perhaps the contribution of a serious Opposition to this perspective was also useful. I hope that by then, of course, it will help you with soberness to see your strategy again. I fear, however, that by constantly adopting the advice of extremists on your sidelines, and in particular your Vice-President, Mr Georgiadis, you will find it very difficult to change your strategy. And be careful, Mr. Mitsotakis, don't, giving the hegemony to the extremists of your sidelines, you finally find yourself in advance of surprises, because you have delivered them the keys to the house, and in the end you may also lose the house. But that's your job. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] In any case, however, I understand, ladies and gentlemen, as I said at the outset, Mr Mitsotakis. And I understand why it is a huge structural problem - not a communication, but a political, strategic problem - the fact that the evaluation is being closed and we are finally driving after seven years in an overall agreement, including debt and therefore also includes the corridor, the medium term for repayment and the possibility of the country relying on its own powers and thus finally coming out of the memoranda. It is a problem, because no matter how many people are insisting on the same candy, we are now spending on a positive agenda. How do we do it? A positive agenda for both the country and society. The Greek society needs it. And you know, when this becomes a reality, perceived by the majority of public opinion and Greek citizens, you will have lost your only ally over the years: fear and destruction. Because that's all you've been counting on. I challenge you to ask a Greek citizen - since you are circulating too much, but we are not released and we are closed, you probably remember yours when you were locked up and you couldn't take a breath - out on the street. And tell him: "What does Mr Mitsotakis propose for the country?" I bet he will answer you: "What Mr Mitsotakis says is that Tsipras is not doing well and destroying us." Because that's what you keep saying. Ask him: 'Thematic proposal does it have?' No one will remember to tell you, Mr. Mitsotakis. Nobody. And nobody will remember, because as you speak - I don't know, you may have proposals, I may not underestimate you - 95% of your presence dedicate it to a negative and destructive criticism. There is only a negative picture of what you say about Greek society. And you know, no one can claim to be a prime minister, saying that others are bad. He must prove himself that he has a proposal. But what now, ladies and gentlemen? What is happening is that you react with the logic that says that if the reality is inconsistent with what you say, it is inconsistent with you, so much worse for reality. I would like to remind you of what you said to your Members a few days ago, a few months ago, on 24 February - if I remember correctly - when you were a parliamentary group. You said that "the country is sinking again at the end of the decline and no one knows whether and when the evaluation will be closed". It was the period, I remind you, just before, that in the media Mr. Georgiadis had come out and clearly told the truth, the truth of your line: "We do not want the evaluation to be closed. We want the government to fall and us to come. Because they don't want, they can't, they're stalling. We will come and pass it all, so much and so much." I would remind you that at that time there were neither countermeasures nor a return to collective bargaining nor a prospect of debt. And you accused us of not closing the negotiations because, he says, we have left-wing ideas, because we claim from our lenders the return of Greece as well as in the context of working normality. When we took the negotiation out of the closed rooms of HILTON and took it to the Summits and the Summit of the seven southern countries of Europe, to highlight the importance of the whole of the European Union, to all countries for the implementation of work regularity that you have abolished, you told us that we have ideas. Because you like to report and do this statement game. Yes, of course, when we negotiate, we negotiate and are ready to go to the extremes, unless we take what would make a balanced agreement, an agreement that would give us, however, through the overall solution, the prospect of exit. Because that's our target. So when it became clear, however, that we will also have countermeasures and that there will not be so much more, as you have said, but for every negative measure that we are voting on today, we will also be voting on an equal amount of positive, especially when it has been clear that we are finally moving forward with the long-standing write-down of debt that will open up a roadmap, a decade-long runway for repayment through the markets and the possibility of standing alone on our feet and getting out of the memoranda and agreed, then the New Democracy, but also the media that support it, have changed. See, we are now being told and no longer being told that we are destroying the country because we do not sign any agreement, as we were told at the time, and that we are being delayed, but that we are destroying it - and he is a common denominator - because we have an agreement. And they are even trying to convince us that the restrictive measures are more and heavier than the equal positive measures. And when I've been listening to this conversation in the media for a long time, you know me a quiz they put us when we were little kids in school asking us: “What is heavier? A kilo of iron or one kilo of cotton?’ I'm sure, Mr. Mitsotakis, you wouldn't answer this quiz right when you were a child! [[Laughing and applause from the wing of SYRIZA]] The most important thing, however, is that by changing the trophy, you suddenly come here and present us as an antimony and, indeed, antimony people who are interested in the mobilisations and the anger of the people who have become the river. You even discovered Theodorakis today. And I don't mean his songs. That's the most vicious thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u524	Another river and another Theodorakis from you. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u525	I don't mean Stavros.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u526	You're talking about others.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u527	You, Mr Mitsotakis, who, six months, as long as this difficult conflict procedure with our lenders lasted, resent the most extremist ones than the lenders in the most absurd of their claims. You who, at the most critical moment, just before critical decisions, went to Berlin and while you said you were wearing the national shirt, you were probably wearing the IMF shirt. You who even had your MEPs in the European Parliament denouncing the Community because it takes the part of Greece. You who, in the years of judgment while ruling, proved to be kings of the king. So now you come here and shed black tears and say about the memorials and how cynical we are. You know, you're changing, though, so fast, and you're finally dizzing us, you're dizzy too, but you're going to get dizzy too. Because just five months ago - it wasn't much - when we brought here to Parliament... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Don't be confused! Be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u528	Mr. Javarra, quietly, alas.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u529	For it was only five months ago, Mr Mitsotakis, when we brought here to Parliament the one-off pension allocation of EUR 620 million in December 2016 to a million of six hundred thousand low pensioners. And what were you telling us then? You have told us that we are causing budgetary derailment and putting the country at risk. Why? Why did we not agree with the lenders, with whom you had great pain in understanding! And what are you telling us now five months later? Just the opposite. You who then voted against because it was a risk to the country, because we did not agree with the lenders, you now say to us: 'After giving these and we voted against them, now give so much'. And you are also bringing it as an amendment without consultation. You then voted against what could be given, because it was in the security of the surplus of the year 2016, when we knew the over-return and now you come and say "send now, it's okay, without understanding and let's vote against". At the same time, you are not voting against the EUR 4 billion countermeasures agreed with lenders, and at the same time you are tabling an amendment to other countermeasures, which have not been agreed with lenders. You who, in December, voted against saying that 'non-cooperation with lenders puts the country at risk'. Honestly, Mr. Mitsotakis, I raise my hands up. I can't watch you. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And I think that this opposition of what he sits and what he speaks, and so on, Yuvetsi, whatever it may be, cannot be watched. No one can watch her! It's either you're completely out of your mind by closing the evaluation or you're in a panic. One of them is happening. In panic, why do you know something? Fear now probably changes camp and now that the story of the parentheses ends with the boulder, rather, fear why you don't know what dawns, because your story in the years of your governments and plundering and bankruptcy is full of scandals, it's full of mistresses, it's full of remulsions, it's full of seafood, it's full of cover. That's what makes you panic and you're acting like sold-out chickens. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] That is why you are now investing in one thing: in parentheses, in left-hand parentheses, but in the end the only parentheses that will be closed and closed soon and we are closer than ever to close, will be the parentheses of the committee, the parentheses of the memorials and the withdrawal of sovereignty, in which you have led the country after plundering and bankrupt. Because we are here - obviously I believe that the last person who listens to us - because some have bankrupt and looted the opportunities of this country, because some have led it to a distorted model of development, because some years of fat cows have left no infrastructure to protect us in the years of the crisis, because some have made it misery on the stock exchange, the equipment, the hatreds of your parties' black funds from 'SIEMENS'...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u530	Same and the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u531	You don't like to hear that. It's the same. But the Greek people themselves and the same have understood them and you fear that they will now come to the committees of inquiry and to the courts.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u532	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u533	So I now come to the tampering, Mr Javarra, for the measures. I would like to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that I will obviously mention not all of the propaganda and the lies you have made in the last few days and the media, but the two of what I have said. I will stand at the two most basic of the lies, the two main narratives of destruction: the so-called fourth memorandum and the question of countermeasures. I will not be content with the argument that life will vindicate us in 2019, as I said at the outset, but I will explain why it will vindicate us in 2019 and why it will disprove you once again. So it says New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis that countermeasures are 'air' because we do not need, as the agreement says, to be within 3.5% targets to be implemented, but 5.5% and he said this today by this Step. And it is absolutely obvious, ladies and gentlemen, that Mr Mitsotakis is lying consciously, because he cannot understand Greek in order to read what the article says nor can he know elementary mathematics. So it says the bill that the equivalent 1% of GDP will be applied simultaneously in 2019, provided that at the end of 2018 there will be the provision - rather than the IMF, the IMF and the European institutions, that is, all of our partners, as always - on condition that at the end of 2018 we are in the budget objectives of the programme. What's the target? Over 3.5% of GDP and not 5.5% of GDP. So what if we do have 3.5% or more? At the same time 1% negative measures and 1% positive measures will be applied. And what do we have? 3.5% plus 1% minus 1%, how much is it? 5.5%? 3.5% plus 1% minus 1%, 3.5%. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, to my son who goes first grade if I put this exercise on him, I am sure he will understand it and understand it all. So why are you calling this very simple, 3.5% plus 1% minus, do you not understand that it makes us 3.5%? [[Noise in the Chamber]] Leave it now. Let it go. Just math. Why don't you understand that? Why are you misleading the Greek people? Let me tell you. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Do not understand and speak about 5.5% for the very simple reason that the result of 2016 in a primary surplus is 4.2%. And so when we made a surplus of 4.2%, which you have now come and told us 'you have brought it off by 4.2%, until before you said that the cuts will be implemented, there is no way that the cuts will not be implemented', so when we took it out, what happened? Evidently, your argument, on which all rhetoric is based, that it is air cut off, that we will not manage in 2018 and 2019 to have a surplus of more than 3.5%, not just weakened, but effectively neutralized. Because if in 2016, in conditions of economy where we had a stagnation, you manage to catch 4.2%, much more than 3.5%, then it is obvious that in 2018, having two years that, according to all predictions, our economy will have a high growth rate of more than 2%, it is absolutely certain that you will get surpluses and targeting more than 3.5%. In short, ladies and gentlemen, when reality does not like us, instead of changing the propaganda and the arguments of our propaganda, we change reality. The countermeasures, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, are not unsatisfactory. Air is your words and your arguments. And, as it turns out, not only will the countermeasures as a whole be secured, because the objectives will be achieved, but on the basis of the calculations made by the Ministry of Finance, an extra financial space will also be set up for 2019 of EUR 660 million and for 2020 of EUR 1,5 billion and for 2021 of EUR 3.5 billion. And all this money will be used for additional purposes, I would stress that, in addition to the countermeasures that we are voting on today. We now go to the second, to the great lie, which Mr Mitsotakis carried to Stepma and made it difficult to carry, brought us the bill and said: 'I carry the fourth memorandum, which is heavy'. Since the first moment the trophy changed and we had an agreement, the New Democracy has been talking about a fourth memorandum and even without funding. And you also tried to organize an inconceivable campaign of lies and misled public opinion, in full coordination with the media that they support you again, indifferent to elementary objectivity. But that, of course, is not new. Every time you unleash your lies, the propaganda mechanism is slow. And what did they say? "The fourth memorandum is coming, there are no countermeasures - as they have said before - which is coming, tomorrow the elections are falling the government." I would like, for example, to submit to the minutes only certain titles of valid and approved newspapers that since 2015 have seen the disaster with you, while before 2015, they actually saw the same success in the country. We're starting from the recent ones. 1-3-2017: ‘Sign a fourth Memorandum’. 19-3-2017: "We return to the '60s." 25-3-2017: “All roads lead to the polls”, according to “the NEWs” of course. What a prototype! 29-4-2017: "This is the new fourth Memorandum". 7-5-2017: ‘EUR 4 billion or damage from the fourth Memorandum’. And of course what would they say today, "THEY"? ‘Ophthalmoplasm the countermeasures’ do not exist. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But you know, because beyond liars, you're also puppets, you forgot - sit now, you'll laugh - exactly what you said a year ago. You said the same thing a year ago, in May 2016. Ladies and gentlemen, the fourth memorandum at the end of the day did not bring it, we brought it in May 2016, when Mr Mitsotakis again then discovered a fourth memorandum, and on May 11, 2016 he said that he had already read it. And now he's brought it to us here on the parliamentary step by saying it's too heavy, but it's that. In May 2016 he read it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u534	The complement was the other one.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u535	Please, Mrs. Vulture.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u536	Relax, Mrs. Swollen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u537	You signed another one.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u538	Relax, Mrs. Swollen. Arguments say, you'll object if you have the opportunity.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u539	Quiet. Four days we've been talking here endlessly. Alas!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u540	While, ladies and gentlemen, what did the media say to you then? They rushed to present and terrorize the Greek people according to headlines that, with the closure of the first assessment, the government had brought back the fourth memorandum since then and, of course, the activation of the cut, which you were absolutely sure would be activated. I'm on it. Date of birth: 24.4.2016. 24-4-2016 ‘PRODUCT TYPE’: ‘Fourth Memorandum and 9 billion metres’. You said the same thing! You've been saying the same thing for a year. 25-5: "How much we will pay for the memorial Tsipras". Since then. And of course, 7-7-2016: "Public civil servants hostages. The wages have been cut in public since 2017, because the cut is activated.’ That's what you've been saying for so long! [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr. Mitsotakis, I have a question in mind. How many times will this fourth memorandum be voted on in this country? And what do you mean when you say fourth memorial? Will you explain? Do you ultimately mean the Medium-term Financial Strategy Framework? Is that what you mean? That's what you mean. Mr. Mitsotakis, if we were to count for a memorial of every medium that you brought from 2010 to Genaris 2015, today we would not be in the fourth, we would be in the 40th memorial and we would hold ten more kavzas. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Your story, however, has proved to have no dragon. To be serious, what is the record of the Fourth Memorandum on New Democracy, a narrative, which, as you can see, has had for a year, perhaps more? In fact, this is your political fantasy. It's the guarantee you've been trying to give the lenders trying to convince them that you were willing to implement another memorandum to convince them to load it on us, in case you manage to return to power. And since you haven't done that, today you're just being exposed. Because the only thing on the table is a balanced overall agreement, which closes the second assessment of the third programme and, at the same time, opens up the prospect of a comprehensive solution in terms of debt. 'What do we get', you say, 'from this agreement'? So we'll list what we get. First, take the intended dose. Secondly, as I have explained before, countermeasures equal to those for 2019 and 2020, almost 2 billion and 2 billion, four billion. In addition, a financial margin of 5,5 billion from 2019 to 2021. And these 5.5 billion will go to social spending to support the weaker, and not, of course, to services, as the previous governments used to do. Thirdly, and perhaps the main one, we take what you considered to be a given from 2012, but ultimately, from what life itself has proved, it was not so given. I am referring to the medium-term debt measures, which will lead to the relative viability study and the International Monetary Fund, which will also be the green light for the Governing Council of the European Central Bank to integrate Greek bonds into the quantitative relaxation programme. I would like here to repeat something that everyone should know. The measures we have agreed required the International Monetary Fund. It's known to everyone. It is clear that this mixture of policies was not our choice. So the International Monetary Fund asked for them. If we have the positive development that we all want to have and take the debt solution, we will fully implement our commitments. But if we do not have the positive development, with the responsibility of some in Europe, then the International Monetary Fund has made it clear - and I want to say it responsibly here in Parliament - that it will not be involved. And if the International Monetary Fund does not participate, I have made it clear that there is no requirement and commitment for us to implement these measures in 2019 and 2020. So these measures that we are voting on today will only be implemented if they start to apply, after the end of the programme, in September 2019, substantial debt measures, debt measures that will lead us to a definitive exit from the crisis. Otherwise, these measures will be withdrawn, ladies and gentlemen. They know that and our creditors, the Greek people know it, and this House knows it. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] But now that you are protesting, I would like to ask you something. Yesterday in the European Parliament we had the signature of a text by three Heads of Parliament, the Left, the Greens and the Socialists, who were in fact asking directly, on 22 May, in the next Eurogroup, to have a positive outcome and not only to close the review, but also to provide the necessary measures for the debt, which will provide the solution for the IMF to participate in the programme and the ECB to give the green light to Greek bonds. And it was a hefty placement of three important political groups. You, Mr Mitsotakis, - I'm not talking about the People's Party, let the People's Party that you participate - your position is what? I didn't understand. I have heard you here today say to us: 'Don't celebrate, because it is something that we have been promised since 2012.' I am very pleased, but since 2012 this promise has not been made and you have been dating Mr Samaras and you have been asking for sustainability certificates. You said that debt is sustainable. Are we forgetting this? Didn't you say that debt isn't the problem, that debt is sustainable, and that the lenders will give us some sustainability certificates and laugh all over the world? What's your position? You didn't tell us your position. One more thing. I speak with courage, with responsibility, with boldness. I'm not saying any more inside and other outside, as you go out and say in that we're being destroyed, but go to the LSE and say that the country will go out on the market. Because that's what you said the other day. At the LSE the other day, you said that the country will soon come out on the markets, but the problem is that it will not have such good interest rates, because Tsipras is not so friendly to the lenders, but with you he will have better. That's what you said. Other outside, other inside. I say the same thing. [[Noise in the Chamber]] And what I am saying in this House is that the measures will not be implemented unless we take the debt, I say it to Lagard too, and I tell Merkel that to everybody. What did you say to them, if they asked you to make a commitment if you would implement them? At the same time as I say that they will not apply, if we do not have a debt, you only say that they will be implemented, implemented, implemented, whether we get a debt or not, because you have never claimed the debt anyway. That's the reality, Mr. Mitsotakis. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] So dare you and you speak of destruction and a fourth memorial. You, who were committed to primary surpluses of 4% and 4.2% by 2030. And now you're telling us that you were supposed to negotiate lower. Four years, what did you do? You let them get sick. You're talking about getting the debt to 120% of GDP and ejecting it to 180% of GDP. And all this, after you did the PSI, which destroyed the insurance funds, the hospitals and the micromolecules. You're the one who got unemployment at 11% and reached 27% when we took over. You, who took the GDP at EUR 230 billion and delivered it to EUR 180 billion. You lost 25% of GDP. You're talking about recession and destruction and you're charging the catastrophe to the current government. You are talking about the growth of private debt, which you have managed in a two-year period to double red loans, which have now reached 100 billion euros. And while you did this, not only did you take no care of their limitations, but you were ready and cause greater chaos. You refused to extend the Katseli Act, which would expire at the end of 2014. You have not been very interested in households, nor in the market that was not even for the proper operation of the banking system, for which you are so much cut. All you cared about was feeding the banks with the recapitalization money so that they could end up in the pockets of your superiors, in the well-known triangle of interlocutory, so that the oligars could continue to savour you with their headlines. And you have the nerve to talk about us, which whenever you go to break a closed circuit, you go out and yell. As you did with the authorisation of the Pappa law, which you are constantly saying has been suppressed by the STD, while what has been depressed is not the Pappa law. The Pappa law is in force. What has been swallowed is who will give the number of permits. And the National Broadcasting Council came out... [[Noise in the Chamber]] ...that you were struggling to leave the National Broadcasting Council and we're still waiting. I hope, however, that the Greek people are fully aware of what is happening, Mr Mitsotakis. So we are still unrepentant today. When we brought the law on the extrajudicial compromise that will alleviate the unbearable debts of almost four hundred thousand businesses, you voted against it, Mr Mitsotakis, which is being cut for society and for entrepreneurship. So you're swinging our fingers. Ladies and gentlemen, for us the countermeasures to which I referred in detail are not the way to achieve a simple budgetary balance, nor are they benefits, as some would say, for the maintenance of the electorate. The countermeasures for us are a guide, but also a strategic option. I'll explain why. Because it is a strategic choice in future to form the basis for building a social state. It is a strategic option to increase the social wage so that, despite budgetary constraints, we can create a stable framework for effective social protection and do this over and against your own choices of the past. You know, we received in January 2015 the welfare budget of EUR 780 million. In 2016 we increased by 50 million euros. That's how we could. This year, it exceeds 1.5 billion euros with the social income of solidarity. In 2019, do you know how much the welfare budget we received from him at 780 million? It'll be 2,776,000 euros. Do you know what that means? It means that the minimum change in the predictive budget in the years 2015-2020 will reach 245%. That is why, Mr Mitsotakis, no matter how much you have media protection and complexity, it is not easy to create social dynamics. Because for you, the reinforcement of the low layers and the countermeasures here may be dives, but for thousands of our fellow citizens, when the time comes, is significant reinforcement and relief. In fact, it is relief and support for layers that were almost always on the margins of Greek society. It's about layers that didn't eat with you, as Mr. Pangalos said, at the time when there was money and that, instead of creating conditions of social protection, you ate them right and left in misery and sea-loving. And what did you do with these houses? I'm sorry, occult language. I went to say you made the money home. And you did homes. And offshore you did it. You did everything. But social protection, you didn't. We do not, however, build a social protection net, such as the neoliberal concept of how the institution of social solidarity should be supported. We are trying to create institutions of social solidarity. We alone for 2017 provided for in the budget of 760 million in the social income of solidarity and increased by 300 million in crisis and budgetary tightness in health and education expenditure. And in the same direction we intend to move on to the 2018 budget, which I now say you will vote against, of course, because it will provide funding for the social state, which you consider useless. That's why you come out to the right and left and say a bunch. That's why you degrade it, it's also ideologically your opposition to what we're going to do. One Member of Parliament has said a nice one, that in some schools in the north suburbs they are called dinner, but in the schools of the poor they are called piles of disgraceful.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u541	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u542	Ladies and gentlemen, in 2019, then - and since 2019 for every year - we are moving forward with even more ambitious active policies for these social strata. For the rent subsidy of EUR 600 million, which will cover over six hundred thousand households, with the possibility of taking from EUR 50 to EUR 150 per month, it is not a small thing. The 260 million for first and second child allowances is not a small thing. The 240 million for zeroing or reducing, minimising drug expenditure is not a small thing. The 300 million to support the Public Investment Programme is not a small thing. The 260 million for programmes to combat unemployment are useful. The 190 million for the extension of meals, which you say derelict complexes, is not a small thing. Ask the areas where we are already applying it. The 140 million for the creation of new preschool education units, so that more children, the majority, can go to the kindergartens is not a small thing. On the other hand, there are positive measures in 2020: eight hundred seventy million to reduce the income tax on natural persons from 22% to 20%. Four hundred and sixty million to reduce business tax from 29% to 26%. Two hundred nine million for the reduction of HPAI, which will be targeted at lower incomes. Three hundred and sixty million for the abolition of the solidarity levy, for those who have an income of up to EUR 30 000. It's not a small thing. And refuse to vote, because for you it's air that's out of place. You, ladies and gentlemen, take political responsibility. On the other hand, we feel like we're on the last step. This agreement does not deny it, it does not deny it that it has difficulties. But it opens a road ahead of us. It is, I would say, a decisive turning. Because we do not have before us, I repeat, the completion of another assessment, but an integrated solution at last. Of course, with this agreement, we are now entering a period of stability and a high recovery, which the Greek economy has not seen in recent years. These are the forecasts, ladies and gentlemen. This may disappoint you. And I would like to say that this is already confirmed on the market and you are well aware of that. Already the price of Greek bonds is at their lowest price since the crisis started in 2009. The money markets already follow both the proposals and the interest in productive investment. On my recent trip to China I had the opportunity to realize the great interest in Greece, where business colossians not only from the country concerned declared and state their intention to make significant productive investments in the country. This is particularly important and I will tell you why. Because our strategic goal, but also the mandate we took from the Greek people, was to get the country out of the crisis and the hard commission of the memoranda where you led it after you went bankrupt. Not at all costs, so we fought hard for work, for countermeasures, so we negotiated hard, over and over, when you shouted "close like - as". But that was and is the goal of getting the country out of the comitology. And positive developments in attracting investment and exiting the markets are important stations in the great effort to recover our economic sovereignty and to get out of the crisis. You know, it is a crucial thing to manage the recovery with a redistributive and progressive sign to diffuse the benefits of society as a whole, so that growth is not synonymous with the collapse of work and society. This is our different plan. And that is precisely why for us the negotiation on the labour market was the 'fighting mother' and finally we have the possibility of bringing collective bargaining back, rejecting charity requirements to guarantee the right to compensation or increasing the rate of redundancies from 5% to 10%. Because our political project cannot proceed without regaining work on the one hand and strengthening workers' negotiating power on the other. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering a new field, and this new field requires a political plan, it requires boldness and conflict. This project also has the following specific axes: first, it is based on strengthening investment. Secondly, innovation, research and the production of high-value products. Thirdly, to support the social economy. Fourthly, in trying to exploit human resources, scientists, young people who have left. Fifthly, in the major democratic institutional areas needed by Greek society, from the Constitution to the democratic reform of local government. Finally, it is based on strengthening the social state, the traditional social state, the education, the great reform that is already ready for higher education, but also on the overall change in the education system and the strengthening of high school. Of course, also in health, with the continuation of the hard work being done to strengthen the ESS, but also with the flagrant reform that we are promoting in primary health care. Our strategic objective but also our task - and I repeat, it is a duty of patriotic and social and progressive, left-wing and democratic, as you say - is to safely drive the country out of the Memorandum regime and set the country back on its feet with its own forces, and then be able with greater freedom all with no compelling and distortions to work and plan the future of the country. These days, with the completion of the overall agreement, this prospect for the first time comes close, the prospect of exit, but also the possibility of designing and building a different economic, productive and social model from what led us to the crisis, beyond traditional customerism and away from the obsessions of neoliberalism. This perspective is extremely important and, if you wish, that is why we asked for the mandate of the Greek people in September 2015, again, telling him the truth, and we did not use the previous mandate to exhaust the four years since we knew that we had a memorandum, we brought it before the Greek people, and that is why we were thrown into this battle, and that is why we are continuing to fight and will come to the end. Because the Greek people, ladies and gentlemen, despite the difficulties, despite the frustrations, despite the sacrifices, despite the orchestra and the daily communication war, he knows one thing in depth, he knows very well who we are and what we are aiming for. He knows we're not infallible. There's no doubt about that. But, at the same time, he knows that we are neither porphyrogens nor professional politicians nor children of interactivity, and we do not have alongside us in our political life and in our political path, nor the 'SIEMENS', nor the 'NOVARTIS', nor the equipment or tax evasion lists. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And it is for that very reason, ladies and gentlemen, that despite the frustrations the Greek people know that we are the only ones who can fight it to the end. And we'll fight it and we'll make it as best we can, as best it was in the conditions of bankruptcy that we received the place. And in the end, we will not deny the Greek people. We'll make it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u543	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u544	Mr President, you have asked for the floor to make a comment. Here, you have the floor. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please, ladies and gentlemen, be quiet. Mr President, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u545	Mr President, I'm going to need some more time. I am also going to expect colleagues to leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u546	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u547	Mr Tsipras, I listened very carefully and I have to say that I have found the fact that you have devoted the first 15 minutes of your speech to the New Democracy strategy. First-time Prime Minister takes on a strategic advisor to the Chief of Police Response. Maybe you have another career, Mr. Tsipras, after politics. I don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u548	Please, ladies and gentlemen, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u549	And because you showed a great deal of interest, Mr Tsipras, about what will happen in the European elections in 2019, I would advise you instead of keeping my speeches for two years later, don't you show us your speech two years ago? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because, you know, I think consistency in politics is a good thing. I don't think it's bad in two years to say the same thing I'm saying now. You have a great difficulty explaining how you have been transformed by the one who tears the memorial to the one who brings the fourth memorial to the vote today. Let us now come to the point of the matter. Is it or isn't it, Mr. Tsipras, what you bring a fourth memorandum? Private Memorandum of Understanding, in so far as it has leaked. You have not yet submitted it to the House, as you did not submit the previous update of the previous memorandum. So I'll tell you why it's a fourth memorandum. Firstly, because it includes a number of commitments that were not in the third memorandum and secondly because it binds the country for the period after the end of the third memorandum. That's called a fourth memorandum, Mr. Tsipras! I don't know how else anyone can say it! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You referred to the medium-term and told us whether we were in the medium-term with the fourth memorandum. You have a little troubled, because the medium-term is not accompanied by binding measures, as you should know, it sets out general objectives. Since you referred to the medium-term, I should like to ask you one more question. I wanted to ask you this question for a long time, but you gave me this opportunity. Why didn't you deposit in the medium term from 2015, which would end in 2018, and you are now coming and depositing in the medium term that is for 2021? Will you explain that to us? Because your medium-term is what indicates the need for the country to commit itself to additional measures after the end of the current programme. You have consumed most of your talk in countermeasures. Are you going to tell us anything about the measures? Will you tell us anything about the tax reduction? Can you tell us anything about the pension cut? Or did all this disappear? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You spoke for sixty a minute. Was the word "unnecessarily" in your speech? Is there going to be in your Minister's speech? Were pension reductions in your speeches? Is the increase in the contributions for freelance professionals in your speech, Mr. Tsipras? Are there only countermeasures here in this text that we are discussing? You have now told us about the debt issue. And you told us that if you did not take the debt arrangement, the measures would not be implemented. Is that anywhere in a thousand pages? Is it foreseen? Is it written? Or are you going to start sliting the page - page memos again? And be careful, that's a thousand pages. It'll take you a long time to kick it! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Let's go talk a little bit more about the debt, Mr. Tsipras. Once again, you know, when you have ready text and don't notice what I'm saying, you're trapped. Because I said very clearly about the debt issue that, of course, the debt framework has been set as early as 2012, but poorly our creditors have not yet made the debt arrangement for which they have committed themselves. That's what I said abroad, what I said to Mrs Merkel, that's what I told Mr. Shoeble, and that's what I'm saying to the national Parliament, Mr. Tsipras. So we don't get involved. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I would expect you, in the question of debt, not to repeat what you usually say about “destructive PSI” and that nothing has happened in the past about debt write-offs. Because I read with great interest page 233 of the memorandum, where you admit a word. Listen, it's interesting. Write in your memorandum: "In recent years the composition and structure of debt have improved. The average residual physical duration has been extended over time and the costs of its service have been significantly reduced.’ How did all this happen, Mr. Tsipras? They're magically? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] This was all the result of the 2012 restructuring of the PSI, what you were using yesterday and you are forced to accept that it is beneficial. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] To say one more thing, since you are talking about the debt issue and the IMF issue. I have here two sustainability reports, one from 2014 and one from 2016. It's IMF stuff. The 2014 sustainability report estimated that the debt would enter a speedy degression orbit, thus being close to 60% of GDP in 2060. In the latest report in February 2017, the IMF - again the same IMF - estimates that in 2060 public debt will be launched at 275% of GDP. What's going on, Mr. Tsipras? You! You and Mr. Kammenos! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Take it and watch it. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Be careful. Promise that you will bring an agreement that will reduce the debt to levels that would never arrive if you hadn't been a Prime Minister. Congratulations, Mr. Tsipras, for your success! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It reminds me of the well-known joke that the accused of the parental murder seeks mercy because he is an orphan. You told us again, Mr Tsipras, that the climate is changing, that the economy is about to land, take off. How did Mr. Flambury tell us? He said we were launching, that the economy is flying. But in addition to the statements, Mr Tsipras, there is also evidence. You know, there's comparative evidence. So let's see what the figures in the first quarter of 2017 say about a series of European countries. Romania: growth of 5.6%. Bulgaria: growth 4.1%. Poland: growth of 3.4%. Cyprus: growth of 3.3%. The whole Eurozone is developing. The only country in recession is Greece, with 0.5% recession, Mr. Tsipras. These are your achievements! We are the only ones who are going backwards and you are celebrating when all the international organisations, but you yourself in the medium term, who have tabled all your predictions to the worst. You have not resisted, Mr Tsipras, the temptation and those of SYRIZA who were trained, precisely in the same motto, to speak again of the forty years that have destroyed the country. It's too easy, you know, Mr. Tsipras, to level everything. Since 1974, the year when, if I am not mistaken, you have also been born, the living level of the Greeks, in absolute numbers, has risen eight times. Not one or two, but eight times. Greece entered the European Union, entered EMU and acquired, with whatever problems, a stable democracy and modern institutions. You may have been across all these steps, but it's not too small, it's not for flying. And if the years of the crisis, instead of divide the Greeks and instead of poisoning public opinion and undermining any recovery efforts, you have shown greater responsibility, now we would have come out of the crisis and had greatly covered its losses. We've done a lot of self-criticism for the mistakes of post-multiplanting. And that's enough. There is no doubt that in bankruptcy we have also reached a certain degree, because state spending has disproportionately increased and the competitiveness of our economy has decreased. Mr Tsipras, however, I never remember you calling out for a smaller state, for fewer appointments, for more reforms. "Give more" yelling. A lifetime you've been plundering populism. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We've done our self-criticism. Have you made yours? Have you done yours? An apologies for what you said about the mockery of the Greek people, have you said? Have you dared? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You're not innocent of blood, then. You are conscious, not in terms of management, but certainly in terms of political perception, because the demagogic populism of post-population has had many of your own touches. Mr. Tsipras, once again, you have referred to me with degrading designations. You called me a 'purple-born'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u550	Is that bad?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u551	Wait a minute, Mr. Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u552	You called him a provocator from up there. Did you forget?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u553	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u554	Last time - and I see you repeat it all the time in your communications - you described me as 'free man'. So, let me tell you two words. Your announcements all the time, Mr. Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u555	Meimarakis said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u556	Jamba man, Mr. Tsipras, I will tell you that he is, in his knowledge, lying to make a ressalt in power and then saying he was delusional. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Jamba man is the one who brought the country a step before leaving Europe, betting that responsible opposition will back up. Jamba man is the one who vaccinated the movements "I don't pay" and now he's mad at the confiscations. And it's a free man who mocks in Greece that he's allegedly giving his thirteenth pension and abroad sends repentance letters, asking for apology, and says he won't do it again. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] One more thing. Jamba dude is the one who is elected and reelected with a reinforced analogy and when he sees that he loses elections, votes simple analogues. That's the free man, Mr. Tsipras. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And I'm closing...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u557	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u558	I'm hanging up, okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u559	Quiet. Be quiet. Come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u560	Doesn't he have a name? Make a comment, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u561	All right, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u562	Enforce the order.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u563	Mr Ausgeakis, you could not impose order on one tenth of what I do. Not even one tenth! Learn. Have a seat and you'll find out.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u564	I shall therefore close, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with yet another reference to the great sense of the strategic deadlock in the New Democracy. You should be pleased, Mr Tsipras, if we have any problems. I personally don't see them. One thing is certain, however, that in a tragic strategic deadlock citizens have entered with the measures in the fourth memorandum. They're deadlocked and not us. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In any case, if you are so sure that we are in a strategic deadlock, make elections and let people judge who is in a dead end and who is not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u565	Please be quiet. Don't talk. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u566	Mr President, is the third party outside the debate?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u567	I'll be very brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u568	Immediately after.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u569	Nice work!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u570	Immediately after.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u571	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u572	Immediately after.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u573	I'll be very brief. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u574	At the end of the conversation? The third party never came out of the conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u575	You'll be in the conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u576	Don't worry. In the end, the debate is of greater interest and we will listen carefully to Mrs Gennimata and all the previous speakers. I found that Mr. Mitsotakis had come with a ready-to-be dentistry. [[Applause from SYRIZA and ANEL wings]] Because usually, when someone gets up to ask the floor for dentistry, he gets out of text, as I do. But he's prepared a dentistry to intervene. I shall therefore reply out of text, not one on the questions he has raised, but I shall respond to his great anxiety. Well, Mr. Mitsotakis, listen to it, to understand it once and for all. You're accusing me of calling you a purple. Mr. Mitsotakis, the truth is that we don't have the same route or social policy. And the truth is that I, unlike you - I will speak of myself, I will not address you - was not born with the aim of becoming a Prime Minister, nor was I born in chairs nor raised in chairs, nor do I have this as a great suffering and evil. [[Applause from SYRIZA and ANEL wings]] For, Mr Mitsotakis, the difference between those who have voted for five years to keep their chairs, with us who are fighting, fighting and outside the country, in order to keep society unscathed, is the difference between those who have been struggling to defend what they themselves have been aiming for and ideology, with those who are fighting again, because they feel huge about the loss of the chair and the spoon, which they have had and plundered the Greek people and the Greek society for many years. So leave that self-criticism. What's left to make self-criticism in this place? What's he gonna do? Tell me!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u577	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u578	To make self-criticism until 1980. He was on the outside.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u579	Don't be surprised.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u580	Were they dactyloscopic and could not have access to public services? Let the Left make self-criticism, why did he claim? Or is SYRIZA self-criticizing, why did he destroy the country for the last two years? Like SYRIZA led the country to bankruptcy! You had the courage to speak even about the debt, but also about the state. We received a country bankrupt. Debt was 184% of GDP when we took over. When the memorial adventure began, the debt was at 124% of GDP. And you talk at the same time about the state which, he says, we defended. Mr. Mitsotakis, did the left make the armies of the assignments to PPC, OTE, the large organizations, the armies of the assignments that went in, having shown their party booklet? Did we do this? The left is responsible for the fact that there are structural distortions in Greek public administration or SYRIZA? Mr Mitsotakis, however, I shall return to the essence of the debate and tell you this in terms of your confusion between the memorandum, the medium-term and the supplementary memorandum: in the first memorandum there were five additional. There have been five additional, because every few minutes, the closure of an assessment is done on the basis of the economic data and the objectives. In the second Memorandum four. Third, one. What exactly are you confusing? What exactly are you confusing? You've been talking about a fourth memorial for a year. You have been talking for a year now, firstly, because this is your communication strategy, that is to say, to the government in addition to what was committed to the Greek people, but perhaps, as I said in my speech, the fourth memorandum of your great ambition was now your great desire, your vindication. I come to the most crucial point in my answer and I close. Mr. Mitsotakis, you have been accusing me for two years, comparing my statements before 2015 and my statements during the difficult and hard negotiations, in the first half of 2015 with statements I made after, now, during the September 2015 elections. You constantly do this and you do it deliberately. Because you want to erase something very simple from your memory. We had to change the account, because we really gave all our souls to claim the fairness of our people. And we said it publicly during the election period that we did not calculate that these connections in the European field do not change from one day to the next. It takes time, it needs a plan, it needs a whole, if you want, attempt to create alliances. Indeed, during the first period, in order to implement our commitments to the Greek people, we have reached the ends and led to an unprecedented blackmail. In an extortion that he said "or sign or collapse the banks and go bankrupt the country". And you know why we were driven into this blackmail? Because a few days before we come to power, the European Central Bank has set up the programme of quantitative relaxation for all other European countries, with the exception of Greece, before we come to power. And today it is restored. But we had the emotiveness, Mr Mitsotakis, you blamed us for 'free guys'. And you know, the one from your lineup was heard first, it didn't sound from me. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] From your list it was heard first of all for you, who, having ensured that there is nothing wrong, can on the one hand go to Mr. Shoeble and to Brussels and Berlin and blame us for giving you 620 million euros to the low pensioners and on the other hand say 'give so much more' and 'we do not vote against the countermeasures'. You're the one who swallowed 65 billion yards a year of looting, now spit the countermeasures! So when we arrived at the critical point, we made a decision that had a moral weight, which you probably cannot understand. What was that decision? Let's go to the Greek people and say something very simple, which neither the PASOK Government said during the first period nor the government of Mr. Samaras, who were elected the first to say "there are money" and they brought the first memorandum and the second one saying "the renegotiation" and "Zappeion" and brought the second Memorandum.We therefore, when we hit the wall, we went to the Greek people and said: "This is the agreement, these are the difficulties. Choose us and not those who plundered and bankrupt the country, to overcome the difficulties." So here's who the "free guys" are! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Those who took the mandate of the Greek people and redeemed it with measures and memorials, while we open, public, clean, looking into their eyes Greek citizens, progressing. And we'll move on to the end. We're not gonna do you a favor. We have proclaimed a four-year mandate, with the main aim of getting the country out of the memoranda - and we will achieve it - with the second main aim of bringing justice, finally, to this place - and we will achieve it - and thirdly, to design the model of development, of productive reconstruction in the country. I am sorry that you will not contribute to this great debate that opens up in front, but we will open this debate and great institutional areas will also make great changes to the place and in 2019, unfortunately, in two years' time, you will be crying, Mr Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u581	Thank you. I call at Step the President of the Democratic Association, Mr. Fofi Gennimata. Please, those who leave will leave immediately.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u582	Is the Prime Minister leaving now? Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u583	Mrs. Christophilopoulou, don't shout! The Prime Minister will be back.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u584	Mr President, I will not start unless you apply the order to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u585	Mrs. Gennamas, excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u586	Because you have an absolute responsibility for what has been created today.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u587	Mr President, you have not complied with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u588	Your problem is...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u589	Mr President, it is not your home to do what you think. Okay? Well, you have an absolute responsibility for what happened today, which has never occurred in parliamentary times. And I am truly sorry for both the Prime Minister and the Chief of Staff Responsibility, because they have not found a single word to say that the parliamentary order of the parties has not been respected and there has been no respect for us talking before the Prime Minister. If you think this malicious show has a audience, you're making a big mistake. The Greek people see their sacrifices not being taken place, flying into the handless basket and waiting today to hear answers and not this caricature of bipartism, which no longer cuts tickets. They won't even go back to see you. I'm really sorry. And I am sorry, because there was a well-established performance, with the participation of the President of Parliament. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] A political system that seems to be far below the circumstances, for the needs of the Greek people, for its concerns, for uncertainty, for insecurity. If you think these manipulations will save you, you're too laughable. The crisis of the Greek people will be irreversible when it falls upon you, because today the third act of a drama is being played for the Greek people, with the sole responsibility of your government, Prime Minister, who, once again, are not in order to listen. Because this assignment of the administration of the state's finances, which you are doing today with this agreement, is the most serious concession of national sovereignty, which has been made to the modern state. It's a disgraceful agreement, so you're not in it. Of course, the first act was the criminal activities of Mr Tsipras and Mr Varoufakis, who led us to a step before Grexit. You didn't receive a bankrupt country, Prime Minister. You led it to the back of bankruptcy in the summer of 2015 with the capital controls, which we had lost 86 billion and the third and unnecessarily inappropriate memorandum. The second act was the assignment of public wealth for ninety-nine years. Nobody dared to sign this. Just you! And the closure of the second evaluation with 9 billion meters. And today we come to the third act, which fills the burdens for the Greek people and reaches 14 billion euros. Fourth Memorandum. That's what we're talking about. Because it has commitments between now and 2021. You have worked out the country, without having the legitimacy of doing so, without bringing any funding and imposing the Committee of the International Monetary Fund. However, the cycle opened by the SYRIZA - ANEL, with false promises and trade in hope, is now finally closing with this signature by Mr Tsipras in the disastrous agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, we never ignore the difficulties that Europe's conservative circles and the International Monetary Fund have always created and created. After all, we fought hard towards them to put brakes on their demands, when everyone else undermined us, then, in the squares of wrath. This government, however, had the greatest social tolerance. He had the great opportunity for political conciliation and had the greatest support from the European socialists who ever existed in a Greek government in the years of the crisis, because we have fought to support our country. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] You have stationed weak, incapable of using any of this. You have never seriously negotiated, with a plan and strategy, for the national interest. You have confined yourself to communication crowns, to phony riots with amoralism, so that the country will again be brought into an agreement on terms, indeed, of defeat. The government's delay, which was deliberate - it was not by chance - enabled measures to be taken at the table, which were not in the debate in the autumn, such as reductions in duty and new reductions in pensions. You've given it all consciously to the lenders. From the 'go back, Mrs Merkel', to 'welcome home'. You'll give her the keys soon. Ladies and gentlemen, what do we really have to vote on today? The reduction of about one million, including pensions, even of the low-pension workers, the drastic reduction in duty, with particularly adverse consequences for all workers and pensioners, particularly for low incomes. The new increase, particularly after 2018, of the insurance contributions of hundreds of thousands of professionals, scientists, farmers, small and medium-sized enterprises and, of course, new cuts for the weaker, who, allegedly, are being cut off by the so-called Left. You are even being cut by the beneficiaries of the CSCE, by the beneficiaries of the heating allowance and social benefits. The so - called left government breaks the middle class and makes the poor the poorest. And keep going, don't stop here. Group redundancies are being released and your commitments to collective agreements are being abandoned. By liberating the shops on Sundays, small and medium-sized enterprises and workers in these businesses accept the charismatic shot by you and especially by the working woman and the working mother. And instead of applying the decisions of the board and supporting, as you promised the uniforms, you also reduce the special wages. And all this, without any commitment to the debt, with the only hope of what Mrs. Lagard's pressure will yield against Mr. Shoeble. Mrs. Lagard, who you were going to send out in the fall, if you remember well. You begged in the winter, and now you're hanging on top of her, and you're getting out of the summer. You abandoned the 2012 Eurogroup debt decision - that is the reality - and you did so to the European bankers, with at least EUR 6 billion of the Greek bonds' profits. You got vague promises in 2016. You came here to say that you took the three baskets: the short-term, medium-term, the long-term. That's how you closed the review last year. You don't remember? So you golded the pill to your Members, so that they could vote on it, when you solved the debt issue. And today you come here and tell the lenders "give what you like to save the pretexts". [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Well, listen, no more fun! You are not entitled and you are not getting to bring anything less than the 2012 decision. Ladies and gentlemen, every red line invoked by Mr. Tsipras and his ministers has disappeared from the face of the earth. You gave it all up to keep the chair. That's the big truth. From the famous "Thessaloniki Program" we went to the unconditional tradition. From seismic to electronic auctions. From the "no house in the hands of a banker" we arrived at the "no house in the hands of a owner". Of the EUR 751 minimum wage, we have reached employment with tips, especially for young people. They remove another wage from private and public sector workers horizontally, with the reduction of tax. Since the thirteenth pension they would pay, they have already cut twelfth and now cut twelfth and tenth. That's where we've arrived. You called "To regain our national sovereignty" and you put a huge label on Greece, which says "sold". Charm Mr Tsipras and his ministers in their statements: 'I am not going to agree any new measures'. Here, in this Chamber, you told us: 'The evaluation will be closed without a single measure'. 'I will resign' they said 'if the taxfree falls below EUR 8,200'. 'The prerogatives will not be accepted by this Government'. 'No reduction in basic pensions will occur, but there will be increases', they assured us. "We will restore collective agreements and free collective redundancies will not be released." ‘Not a single unit of PPC will be sold’. Well, you're naked, you've lost the last fig sheet! Ladies and gentlemen, it is a challenge to ask us to vote for the so-called countermeasures. You are aware that this will be done if, when and when the International Monetary Fund considers it to be the case, the economic objectives for the primary surpluses are overcome. The question is rhetorical. Of course you know that, since you are voting on Article 15, the article of shame, which turns the Greek Minister of Finance into a secretary of Tomsen. His only job will be to publish to the FEK Tomsen's decisions on what will happen in our country. Countermeasures are the new big tale. Measures are the tragic reality for the Greek people brought by you. The new measures lead workers, pensioners, professionals, farmers to the margin. And at the same time, what do you feed? Redistribution of misery with these gorgeous supposedly countermeasures. You are now receiving a pension from the low pensioner and you will give it to your grandchildren if you are allowed to do so as a pile - because you have said you will give it to his grandchildren in the future. "Live to me May"! So don't expect from us any tolerance and no complicity. No, in all the measures and countermeasures you bring today. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Let's finally put the whining and phantoms on the surpluses and give the social dividend. Up to EUR 1.9 billion can be made available for development aid, social cohesion, unemployment treatment, with funding precisely from overcoming the surplus, as the programme you have brought forward provides. You signed this. Say, at least the truth to the Greek people, that you chose not to give the social dividend, because you have to give the lenders interest on the debt after you have delayed the assessment. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has now started the other big tale, that this agreement opens the way for growth. What growth? Your memorial is entirely material. In addition, in the first quarter of 2017, the recession is pulling up and the country last ranks on investment between the countries of the European Union. And really, how will that infamous development come in the future? With the exterior taxation of households and businesses? Twenty-seven new taxes you have imposed. With the continued undermining of large investments? Tell me one that went to this place. They celebrate the high surpluses brought about by overtaxation in a country where the citizens' due debts exceed EUR 100 billion, the debts to the insurance funds of EUR 22 billion and red loans are over EUR 110 billion. They hide that no subsidies were paid for multi-tensional and weak population groups, that the grants to hospitals and subsidies to agriculture were reduced, and of course that the Public Investment Programme was levelled. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Tsipras has only one plan. This prefers, that prefers, that promotes, to prolong his stay in power. And that's how he promises everything to everyone. While public hospitals are truly dispersed, they are recruiting ghosts and vague reforms for primary care, which, in fact, arbitrary and provocative characterizes as reforms similar to those made in the 1980s. Here goes what the anointed Greek people also say: "The mule also put her husband with the punks." While education is dramatically downgraded, it promises throughout the day, it builds new universities, abolishes the examinations and the relevant Minister says "yes, but I don't know how to tell you or how to do all this." That is, in short, playing with the anguish of families and children. With established logic and practices they are trying to build the clientele and controlled state. They go raw into justice and public administration, promoting "loopers", attempting to hat independent authorities and continuously increase recruitment from the window. Within one day, governmental medals in very sensitive areas, such as health and contractors, were cancelled by the top courts of the country. Anxiety, opacity, cosmopolitanism are the main features of Mr Tsipras's policy, that is, all that causes disastrousness to young people and push them away from politics. With scandalism for distraction, with the confiscation of their political opponents, especially our own party, building their own tactics. Listen, take this decision at last, our resignation is not blackmailed and is not intimidated! We have nothing to hide and nothing to fear! We have said transparency for everyone and everywhere! [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] You've lost moral advantage. After you failed with Mr. Kalogrica to do "SYRIZA Channel", you are now continuing with another businessman, to whom you are giving millions, you are giving them to your efforts to control the media. But that's as far as it goes. I told you before: The condemnation of the Greek people will be merciless when the time comes. If you think, Prime Minister, that your people support, 'Here is Rhodes'! Resign. But you don't dare. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, the solution to the country's problems cannot be the right-wing rectification. The Civic Opposition identifys the country's tomorrow with its own, as if the crisis has not taught us anything at all over the years and the causes that have led us to this end.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u590	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u591	The policy deficit leads them today to try to communicate even with the word 'change', the word - a symbol used by Andreas Papandreou, PASOK and the democratic party, to describe all the major areas that took place in this country in the 1980s. The change, as a progressive movement and as a policy, is neither forged nor copied. You're in vain. The country needs, before all, a creative change in politics. Ladies and gentlemen, it has accepted that the problem is not just an economic one. It's deeply political. And this meeting today, and as it took place, confirms it in the most tranquil way. We have paid dearly obsessed and aspirations, which keep us in the last night, hallucinations of saviours that will come and magic solutions that will bring. That is why 'to leave' them and let anyone who is', without a radical change of relations and without a decisive reinforcement of the democratic party, actually leads to a new deadlock. This difficult time for the nation is the time to devise a plan of hope, a plan for Greece, the project "Greece", a plan to get Greece back, so that the Greek people can get their place back, to get the citizen back his job, his business, his home, and be truly sovereign in his place. We don't believe in easy streets and we don't promise magical solutions. We do not come to the Greek people as prophets of the only truth. We guarantee, however, that in a short time the Greek people will be able, for the first time after the crisis, to see that their sacrifices are taking place and lead to the end of the deadlock safely. All democratic political forces must both agree and claim: the reconstruction of the place in a strong middle-class order. The social contract with a prospective perspective, which will fairly burdens and benefits from the country's course. The changes that we need to achieve in public debt, so that we can really help the country's development progress seriously. And the restructuring of private debt with society standing up. Only so, and with the commitment of all, the Greek people will be able to have real hope. Unfortunately, it seems that SYRIZA and New Democracy still refuse this necessity. We're going to impose it on them. Consensus is both feasible and necessary. With the change in the relationships in society and in the House, the democratic party, which held the country up in the difficult times, when it had actually been on the edge of the cliff, which shielded the country by holding it into EMU, which was linked to all major reforms, even within the crisis, is again made possible. We are ready for the real change, which needs the place, for new national self-confidence on resignation and fear, for consultation on challenges and national line against polarisation and division. Because that's the only way we can get out of the crisis. And we put above all our homeland, above any party interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u592	Madam President, because you have made an observation, your speech has become present in the presence of the Prime Minister and the Chief of Staff of the Opposition...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u593	They don't need to defend themselves, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u594	Please don't shout. The meeting will be closed with the Minister of Finance after all the political leaders have spoken. I mean, Mr. Kammenos will also speak. The meeting doesn't close, Madame Gennamas, when...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u595	They don't need to defend either the Prime Minister or the Chief of Police Response.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u596	Please. All the time before... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Excuse me, why don't you have the patience to listen to me?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u597	I heard you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u598	You didn't hear me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u599	And I watched all the speeches.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u600	You didn't hear me. All the previous times, and when you were a third - and thankfully - and when you were a fourth party, you remember very well that you were speaking before and after the Prime Minister and the President of the Police Department. Evidently, your pleas have been taken into consideration. The same will be taken into account today, as the Minister of Finance will close the meeting. The fact that there has been a squeeze of time and order is something we will try not to do another time, but do not raise issues of scenarios, conspiracys and support performances. Okay? Please very much. So that we do not remember in here what has happened for many years between the two parties. Understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u601	What are you talking about? Are you going to get out of here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u602	Do You Remember? Do you remember, Mr. Loverdo, where you are a lot older?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u603	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u604	Yes, Mrs. Gennamas. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u605	What are you talking about? Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u606	Stop! Look, Mrs Christophilopoulou, please don't interrupt. We're having a conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u607	Mr President, do I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u608	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u609	These things have never been done in Parliament's Chamber. The fact that you feel the need to apologize is serious, but it does not relieve you of the management you have done. And they have no need to defend either the Prime Minister or the Chief of Police. They have taken the floor and could have been placed and could have given the parties the right order and respected Parliament's third power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u610	Yes, sir. But the next time, which will be discussed with your offices, there will be consistency.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u611	Absolute consequence!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u612	I repeat, and I don't want to say more. You know that, okay? There was no mood.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u613	There was an absolute consistency. I've been here since 6 p.m. and I'm waiting for you to call me. Absolute consequence!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u614	Yes, all right. Mr. Kammenos has the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u615	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have learned that the Chief of Officerial Representation was looking for me and asking where I was. Now he's gone, of course. I was at the European Union Defence Council meeting today with Ms Mogerini on the development of European defence policy and then, in the presence of Mr Avramopoulos, the Greek Commissioner, on matters of terrorism. Of course, Mr. Avramopoulos was replaced by the Vice-President of the New Democracy by those who were then to the government of Karamanlis and were hybrids of Kostas Karamanlis. And it seems that the Heads of State or Government of the New Democracy, instead of dealing with what is happening in Europe just and with the decisions taken, are dealing with other things. They concern, for example, with the effort to show that this government here is a government that is an abstract to the members of the Armed Forces and the Security Bodies. Although not a single word was heard in the speech by the Chief of Staff Response. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u616	You weren't in there and you didn't hear.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u617	I was in.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u618	The Chief of Officer County has been reported several times. Don't lie.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u619	Well...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u620	Talk about the memorandum, Mr. Cammene.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u621	Please, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u622	Mr President, from Kammenos, who would not sign a memorandum or die, I do not take any suggestions. If he wants to tell us about Gonides and the party with the army band.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u623	Mr. Georgiades, please don't go back in there again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u624	To be familiar with Kammenos. I don't pick up that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u625	Please, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u626	He recognized himself as Karamanlis' abusive.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u627	Please, Mr President, excuse me. In the absence of Mr Kammenos, who obviously shouldn't have been here the previous days in your speeches, you mentioned both yourself and the party. I want to tell you not to revolt now. Mr President, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u628	I am continuing, Mr President, because at the very time that Europe is really changing and we are dealing with serious defence issues, others are having a party. I also had a portrait that danced for a Zaybean. Should we apologise for the dance department of the Port Corps? Take a serious look, sir. And at some point, you should see and what the reality is and not the virtual reality. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] I would like to say, therefore, that we are very happy. And I have to say 'congratulations' to the negotiating group, because in fact, while there was the enormous pressure to reduce the budget to the detriment of the personnel of the Armed Forces and the Security Corps, while there were promises from the previous government, the result was achieved thanks to the close cooperation that we had with the WTO, with the members of the Armed Forces and the members of the DGS. I want publicly to thank General Prassaki and all the members of the Department of National Defence DG. The payroll, which is submitted, is a payroll, which, as I will explain below, will not be charged to the Ministry of Finance and to the budget of the country, by making a consistent policy based on the existing budgets, will manage, not to reduce a single euro, a wage for the officials of the Armed Forces and the Security Corps, but, on the contrary, 19.5 million will be given as part of the restoration of the decision of the Council of State. The third point is that, in fact, I saw a compliment twitter with which the New Democracy formally proposed to the Greek people to listen to the Venizelos speech. That's exactly what's going on. Today, Dedicated Opposition and PASOK are one and the same. I have never seen a promotion on the part of Officer Opposition through social networks to listen to Mr. Venizelos! When you get in touch, we can also give you a picture of a submarine, of what Mr. Saffa took 500 million and disappeared a kilo of the picture of Saffa to make it a new thyroid in your party. I say that, because precisely of this money we should today discuss how to increase and develop, from the money stolen from the Greek people. The 500 million, taken by the Safa, is the sum of the risk payments for the officers of the Armed Forces. And I say this because I have seen an article by Mr Papadopoulos, the son-in-law of Mrs Bakoyannis, who is a member of a large New Democracy, now. He left Mr. Kouvelis and went to New Democracy now as a son-in-law and an official of Mr. Marinakis. He made an article. I will tell you that this money, which we are giving today as a night for the first time to the members of the Armed Forces for a quarter, is what Mrs Bakoyannis' daughter has collected when she took the Red Cross campaign of EUR 350,000 and EUR 670,000 of contracts from the Red Cross, to prophesy the fundraiser. This is the money, which you gave left and right to your friends and yours, to the detriment of the state budget and to the detriment of the Greek citizens and, of course, the officials of the Armed Forces. Ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the forecasts of the agreement, which was passed in the summer of 2015, which reminds us of the adoption of a Qualified Opposition, attempts to reform the special wages, including those concerning the personnel of the Armed Forces and the Security Corps. Undoubtedly, this is an attempt to modernise the wage model, which governs the remuneration of staff of the armed forces and security forces of modernisation, which had at times been judged more than necessary. The need lies mainly in the fact that the wage model primarily meets the current development of public administration and is linked to the skills, performance and responsibilities of staff, as well as to the specificities encountered in certain ministries. As is well known and understandable, our current budgetary situation and our obligation and our responsibility not to mortgage the future of the next generations does not allow for the formation of a wage, which will at present bear a significant burden on the state budget and restore legality. At the same time, however, our conscience to the people who are daily and extremely unfavourable in the safety and well-being of all of us has made it necessary to maintain the payroll at the same level so that there is no strain of the Armed Forces and the Security Bodies, who will see the payroll down in his bank account. Under these circumstances, I will refer to the main features of the new wage bill, especially as regards the military personnel of the Ministry of National Defence. And I am referring to the Ministry of National Defence because we have made an effort to connect with the security bodies, but, unfortunately, there has been the party union and roaming around the cafes by singing 'Maggan', lying they think they will make an opposition, instead of coming to see the interests of their colleagues and combining the interests of the security bodies with the armed forces that they could have rendered. And thankfully, the Minister, Mr Toskas, and I have to say this in public, with his personal perseverance and despite the opposition of the trade unionists, he has managed to secure precisely these resources so that the security forces are not wronged in relation to the Armed Forces. In the form, therefore, this salary is financially neutral. Not only are there no reductions planned, but the increases planned by way of extension and the public budget burden, estimated at about 19 million, will not be paid directly, but over a period of four years, thereby ensuring the necessary fiscal stability as a factor, extremely crucial for leaving the country from the budgetary sigh. In the need to decompress the payroll over the whole wage range in the context of the principles of the new payroll, all possible efforts were made to be made in a socially fair manner. On the one hand, injustice is also the non-recognition and reward of the increased responsibilities and responsibilities, which have certain categories of managers and, on the other, on the other hand, it must in no way be underestimated by the contribution of the staff of the following levels of administration. In maintaining the level of remuneration paid at the same level as before, which inevitably leads to personal differences of around 30m euros for the officials of the Ministry of National Defence, the most important element is that no executive will see a reduced remuneration paid in his bank account. However, given that the personal differences mentioned above relate mainly to members of the following levels of administration, I believe that it is of particular value to introduce for the first time the EUR 100 cross-border allowance for military personnel, which - I note - will receive for the majority of the above members, who are serving at the border and who are about 12 000. Therefore, by maintaining the personal difference and granting the new frontier allowance, these members will see a small, but real increase in their remuneration. A short time ago, the negotiating team led by the Prime Minister, accepted for the first time the Armed Forces' officers will be able to get what they deserve, namely nights. This was never done until today. This means, then, that in the end, the salaries of executives will be much better than they were in the past. As far as risk benefits are concerned, I would point out that there has been an extensive process of these, in order to rationalise their payment by updating the beneficiaries and the conditions that they must meet, on the one hand, not to jeopardise the maintenance of the capacity either voluntarily, diving, degrading, and, on the other, certain categories of managers must have it, which will allow me to say that it is inextricably linked to the recognition and reward of the risk, which governs the exercise of their duties. But, you know what, ladies and gentlemen? It is not going to continue to be the case, to reintroduce rosphetologically and without flying to give them a volatile allowance, without diving them, without parachutely having to pay them a discount. Because the money, which seemed to be going toward them, did not go to the comedians of our Armed Forces, who are in danger, doing this difficult task, but were mostly going to those whom they brought back, putting them in office and giving them the allowance, charging the rest of the army. It would be unfair, however, to stand alone on the wage bill and not to mention a series of moves, which are made at multiple levels, which, despite the fact that they will directly have no impact on the wages of managers, have begun to bear fruit, which in the medium term will have a strong impact on our executives. For example, I would just mention that successfully divestments of easy-to-use non-operational materials are being carried out, through transnational agreements, approved by the Greek Parliament, which ensure transparency and which await the flows of significant revenues. This revenue goes for the benefit of staff. From there are built houses, for the benefit of officers and officers throughout Greece. I will only tell you that 2014 had become a home, last year we delivered a hundred homes, this year we will be over four hundred twenty houses. Next year from this money, we will ensure the maximum needs of the personnel of the Armed Forces, especially at the border, and especially in island Greece, where you realise that during the summer period rents are too expensive and cannot be met by a staff officer with a salary of EUR 800. An effort is also being made to modernise the equipment of the military hospitals, making use of every available resource, so that the health costs paid by our officials and their families are drastically reduced, by clear and open procedures which cannot be called into question by anyone. We proceeded and proceeded with agreements with large private operators, such as Piraeus Bank, on the basis of the provision of maximum capacity and benefits for the staff of the Ministry. But also for the retired. I am particularly pleased that lately I see that these agreements trigger market and competition forces, leading to multiple benefits for our staff. These are only a few of what we have achieved and we commit that with God's help, we will go further. Ladies and gentlemen, I have previously listened to Mrs Gennimata, who described some of Greece as damaged and an economy that has no hope. So did the officers of the Officership and the other opposition in this two-day debate. If you listened to the speeches, you would think that this debate is not about the end of a time and the beginning of a new era, it is not about the end of the memorial era and the tradition of national sovereignty, which, for the first time, we have a dose for measures, which will be taken after two years. I mean, unlike the past, what we had to do for a dose of extortion. It's the first time we've had countermeasures. But if they want to see the real picture of the market and if they do not believe all those who come and visit our country as candidate investors, let them open their phone and enter the Bloomberg website, see where it arrived today and a little while ago the interest rate of ten years of Greek bonds. So the interest rate on the ten-year bonds - and I even asked the Minister of Finance to confirm it to me, so as not to make any mistakes - is at the moment we're talking about 5,673, which means that it's just in 2009.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u629	It's in 2014!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u630	What do you want, Mr. Bourra? Tell me, you guys are an economist big. I'll give you my time. Come on, Mrs. Buddhism, you take him.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u631	Don't hold a dialogue, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u632	It's September 2014!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u633	In 2014, September. You've lost two days of purchase.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u634	You've lost your birthday party a lot!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u635	Mrs. Vulge, please. Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u636	What can I tell you? You do not understand that while you are trying to lie to the Greek people, you have to deal with an information that anyone can access. Really, you're gonna have to calm down. In 2014 was the year you dissolved Greece, you went and kissed Venizelos' peeed legs, you acquitted PASOK for what he did, you handed over the New Democracy to the policy of humiliation and you come now, having dissolved the insurance funds with the PSI, having dissolved the hospitals, having dissolved the universities, having dissolved the confessions, and instead of putting the tail under the legs, you dare talk! [[Applause from the wings of ANEL and SYRIZA]] The Greek people will be tried for you, Mrs. Vultesis. And if you're so upset, I'll give you tea, which I've had since the old days, of the first-born.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u637	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u638	Please come to Stepma, Minister of Finance, Eukleidis Tsakalotos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u639	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u640	For what?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u641	Mr President, I have contacted the President to speak for thirty seconds on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u642	On a point of order? I'm listening. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u643	I am one of the registered speakers to speak. In view of the fact that eighteen ministers have spoken, you understand that there is no time left, not just for me, but for all Members, who are registered - and for the SYRIZA side - to speak. I can table, as you know, my speech in the Minutes, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure. However, I will not present my speech in the Minutes, but I will be tabling the minutes of the committee of four committees when the bodies were heard. I shall put it to the Minutes, so that there are also the minutes of the sitting. It is a very important text and I would say that everyone should study it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u644	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u645	Ladies and gentlemen, I think that following the discussions we have had and the controversy, we can calmly go to the end and give a perspective of where we are going from now on. He's also spoken to the Prime Minister and the Chief of Officerial Response, but anyway, we're on our own. The nine out of ten in Greece now see Survivor, after the speakers, the leaders of the parties, so I do not think there is any reason for tension. The main question, which I raised in my first speech in committee, is this: What is a left-wing, progressive, alternative government that wants to support popular strata in unfavourable circumstances? Mr. Paphis forgot the last part. In his speech he said that we claim to support popular strata, without putting what we said, 'unfair conditions'. First of all, I would like to say that who supports the interests of the people's strata is not a legacy. It is something that many left parties claim, many left-wing movements and different strategies, with different visas. And that's what's important. So, for us, to agree that the conditions are unfavourable, that the IMF is not only that it has taken a potential veto from Germany - the Netherlands, which I said in my speech, and that is why the circumstances have been difficult. The big deal is why he got this veto. Because the IMF has shown it, as they say in Marxist terminology, as the collective capitalist, that it is not responsible for capital in Germany, Japan, Italy or elsewhere, but has the overall responsibility for the reproduction of the entire capitalist system. So, that opponent was very powerful. That's the truth we had to deal with. It is true that Mr Pafilis, too, has said to me - and some of his other partners - that we are now being supported by BSE. What does BSE say in its last press release? What does he say in his last announcement, in the press release, that BSE? It says that today, when Greece is going through a new phase of extroversion - listen to this, too - after completing the second assessment and visible the end of the programme and visible the country's access to international markets, it is more than ever before necessary to emphasise the country's development perspective. So you say that BSE supports us, because it tells us a truth. Some things are true, even BSE to say that it is true. It does not mean that the capital has become a supporter. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] It may be that, tomorrow, BSE may say that the earth is not flat, but it is a bullet! It'll be true. For the fact that the New Democracy has not reached this maturity of seeing this change of economy, it is not our fault. We support the interests of the people's layers in adverse conditions. We never said we had a one-way thing. We never said we were doctors and technocrats, who would solve the problems of the populace. But we need to get in and bend over these problems and not have this binary system, which you have, which is socialism here, which is the situation in capitalism - what we are living in now - and we do not know at all how we go from one point to the other. To go from one point to another, you have to deal with these problems in these circumstances. To finish with Marx, to say that people define their course, but not under conditions they choose themselves. These conditions we found, these conditions we fight and we will continue to fight. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] As the Prime Minister said, we cannot have different analyses, as is of interest to us. I accept that it is the fourth Memorandum if you accept that it is the fourteenth Memorandum. Because, as the Prime Minister told you, the first memorandum had five updates, the second memorandum had four updates.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u646	After the end of it? After they ended?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u647	You won't interrupt me, you'll hear some. Each time evaluated, both sides have the right to put new issues and new measures. It worked for you. It also applies to us. So choose or call it the third Memorandum or the fourteenth. But as you want to have them, crowns win letters we lose, we won't accept it. Let's go to the county now. How many steps will our government have taken by 2021? I discount that we will have won in 2019. Between 2015 and 2021, in this seven years, I think we will have taken, if you see it, measures that are 14 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u648	It's 14.2 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u649	Yeah, 14.2 billion. Thank Mr Christos Stakoura. What will be the countermeasures in this period, which begin with things we have already done, such as the CRL that we gave up 850 million? It will be the positive measures that we will be voting on. It's going to be the 3.5 billion, we got a ride by 2021. Where do we get to this? We arrive at the fact that we will have taken about 14 billion negative measures and we will have taken positive measures. So only the negatives you want to talk about. And so you've stopped Mr. Javarras all the time. There are 14 billion negative measures of 7 billion, which makes us 2 billion. How long did the previous governments take? In five years they took sixty-three. The last time I divided sixty-three by five was bigger than two. That's what I think we should remember. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Don't look, Mr. Bourra! It was sixty-three by five. That's it. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Mr. Koutsoukos says this. What is Mr. Koutsuku's support? He says, "But we had to deal with a visible deficit of 13%." That's right. Can you be kind, Mr. Mitsotakis, can you hear me? I think it's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u650	What? That's why I came here to listen to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u651	Yes, you speak and yell.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u652	I can do two things at the same time, don't worry!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u653	So Mr. Koutsoukos tells us 13%. Who is responsible, colleagues and colleagues? So we're responsible for taking more measures, why did you create a bigger crisis? What's the point of understanding it? What support is this that you took about 63,000,000 meters in five years, that you took it because you brought the biggest crisis we've faced since World War II? Now we go to our measures and our countermeasures. We have explained - despite Mr Javarra's holidays, to talk about measures - that both duty-free and pensions will be reduced. Mrs. Ahtsioglu did not hide it for the pensions, she did not hide it from Mrs. Papanatsiou for the tax. We know we're doing this. Is that in our ideology? Oh, no. Is it within our theoretical analysis what it takes for this economy? Oh, no. It's in our calculations what was to be done? We have also criticised the IMF figures and how many people do not pay tax to Greece and the relationship between Greek pensioners and Germans and other Europeans. So our position is clear. What we did was a compromise, because from the beginning of the memorandum, it was that the IMF had to get into the programme - for the reasons I explained here, because it had to be the IMF in the programme - and the IMF had this requirement, in my view, with the wrong calculations and the wrong documentation. We have made it clear - and I would ask you to listen to this, Mr Mitsotakis, because I shall refer to Mr Vorides and Mr Stagiora, two ways of discussing the countermeasures. In other words, we have told Mr Voridis that you might say it as Euclid says, which says that measures - countermeasures will be - we forget measures and countermeasures - we say that we are reaching 2018. In 2018 we tell what 2019 will be, and if we are at 3.5 we get one and the other. We have said the second way that Gerun Diaselblum and Vorides have said - without wishing to hurt either Mr Diaselblum or Mr Vorides - which says that if in 2018 we say that we are at 3.5 plus one, which reduces pensions, then we have a financial space of 1% and so we can take the countermeasures. But what you said in the speech was neither the one solution nor the other. You wanted to keep telling the Greek people that the objectives must be exceeded, without saying that we have already calculated that pension reductions will be a means of doing so. And that's not an honest way. You said it clearly. You said it on TV too. Please, in order to reach agreement in this Chamber, say so correctly. Either you say it as I say it or Geron says it, along with Mr. Vorides. The way you say it is not right and is not honest. Now let's go to the countermeasures. We have said that we are insulting our own world, both with the tax-free and with the pensions. Do we compensate these same people for countermeasures? Oh, no. And that's where we were right and honest. We don't compensate them one by one. But are we telling a retired person in the state he is, that you don't have grandchildren now giving them money from your pension and you will be helped by the child countermeasure? Don't you have children who are seducating in the rent or in the loan, who will be helped by this and who will be lightened up by you? Aren't you paying meds? Be careful, it is not a serious social state, where the pensions of the great people are not for them, but it is for the maintenance of their children, their grandchildren, for the children, for the unemployed. We would like, at the end of this situation, pensions to be for pensioners, to have employment programmes. I, I don't know if you've heard it many times, I've heard in Preveza and elsewhere, I've gone from a great man that "my child, I don't care so much about retirement, but I want my child to get a job." We are trying to tackle this with the programme of active employment policies. And more for the countermeasures. You said so, and both PASOK and Mrs Gennimata said so, and you said so on the side of the JRC, that all we have is a redistribution of poverty. I think Mr. Juliarakis has explained this very well, how a large range of these countermeasures affect the under six decimal places. This is about 6 million people. When we give for housing up to 20,000 with two children or give up to 25 000 children, you can't say that it only goes to the poor. That goes to the middle layers. And we were honest when we didn't have'success story' and in the budget I was talking about true story, because we said from the outset that we were affecting the middle layers. And we've affected them more than they think. And we have affected them more than they are, and because we had an absolute priority for the poor and the money we gave to the humanitarian crisis, but also because we have been late to deal with the issue of tax evasion and corruption. The good news is that corruption and tax evasion are being handled. One great reason why we had an overrun of the targets was that we had a lot of revenue from both e-cards and elsewhere. So what the institutions are saying 'no parametric measures' now helps us to reduce the burden on the middle layers. Look at what we're planning to give and 2020-2021 from the medium term. So in these middle layers we tell them to wonder one thing: Now that growth begins, who do you trust to support your interests? Do you think that the New Democracy and the PASOK or the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, which is already trying to take action in this crisis, will support them? But now we're going to the general disaster, which is happening for the economy, which I have to tell you, as Minister of Finance. I have to tell you that, if you look at what economists say, the macro data, that is, the empirical elements, which are low-level analysis, things are quite good. In other words, if you look at industrial production, it increased in March 8.7% a year, compared to the previous March 2016. This is the sixth consecutive month at positive growth rates. And particularly good is the processing. If you look at retail sales, they have increased 4.6% - year after year - January - February, compared to previous January - February. I told you in my previous speech that if you see the elements of "ERGANIS" in the last four months, we have clean new jobs of a hundred and twenty-five thousand. And not just that. Many of these jobs, more than half of them, are not of opportunity. So, we have this, we have that exports are going a lot better than we thought. In 2016 they increased in real terms 6%. Is everything all right? Oh, no. What goes wrong, what went wrong, and that is why we have the bad results of the last quarter of 2016 and the first quarter of 2017 - you see that I am absolutely not hiding anything from you - investment and public and private. But as far as I understand, almost all the market, all the funds, all the investors have suspended all their decisions until this assessment is closed and we enter the QE. Everybody. Everyone asks, any investor you ask, when you will enter the QE and when the capital controls will be gone. So 2%, we say, is very feasible, very feasible for 2017, if the evaluation is closed as we expect and if we take the overall solution for the debt of 2016.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u654	When are the Capital Controls going to leave?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u655	I'll answer that, too. I'll tell you the road map. So, I'm saying we have a road map that's closing now, we're entering the QE and then I think it's changing page. Without triumphs, without neglecting them, we are changing a page and I think in the question put by Mr Vorides the answer is that the capital controls will be gone very quickly.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u656	Mr Definando (S). — (PT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u657	Until the end of the year. You in the budget tell me if I wasn't right about that. I'm sure you'll remind me if I'm not right. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[Enter page 597a]] [[Enter page 599a]] So, we're saying we have a specific plan, according to which we're ending the evaluation, we're entering the QE, we can do tests to get out of the market and get out of the QE. I am absolutely sure that can be done. So we get to the debt issue, which is part of the whole analysis. We are pushing for a good solution to the debt. I think we had Mr Vorides' wishes this morning to have a good debate. But what we did not have was an official position from PASOK and New Democracy. The report on the intervention of the three Heads of the European Parliament, mentioned by the Prime Minister, ends with the following words: "Greek for the first time since the beginning of the crisis..." - for the first time, says, since the beginning of the crisis, please note Mrs. Gennimata - "...has a good prospects for economic development. The Greek people should focus on policies that lead to the exit from the memorandum and promote fair and participatory development. The Eurogroup is responsible for supporting Greece's progress towards a sustainable recovery." Why could this four-day debate not start with that, agree on it, and then resolve our differences? [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Why couldn't he? What's wrong with Mr. Pitella that Mrs. Gennamas doesn't have? What do the three Heads of the Greens, the Social Democrats and the Left, who cannot be shared by the Heads of the Right? I'm tabling it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister, Euklidis Tsakalotos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So neither the markets are concerned, neither the BSE nor the European Parliament, because we are changing the page. How good will this page come? That is the basic question, and that is our great stress. Of course, as I said at the beginning of my speech, it will also depend on the association of powers in the European Union. That is why in the European Union I would also like the opinion of the PASOK and the New Democracy on the Macron proposal that there should be a concentration of investments in all countries, that the resources of all the countries should go to a central point and that countries should be taken back from them, as required. So a transfer of funds to the countries. Because I can't discuss power connections unless you tell me what your position is. We say a number of things about how to change Europe. I'm taking it further. I have officially told ECOFIN and at many meetings and conferences in the European Union, that if surveillance is to continue, I would also like to have social criteria. So I have put the issue in Ecofin that, to be evaluated, it will not only be the budgetary surplus, but how well you have done with inequality, how well you have done with the poverty rate. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Is that what you're going to support us with? Is this a place to change the context in which we negotiate or is it not? Are we gonna whistle indifferently? Because the People's Party wants this surveillance we now have at European level and will want to have tough surveillance when we leave. Let's decide what we're talking about. That is why it is not just a European one, it is a national one. We are making huge efforts in the Memorandum for these connections. A speaker told you what has happened with the APRC and that we have taken labour relations and control of labour relations seriously. This will continue. We also raise the question of collective agreements. Why did I put it here, while I am generally talking about Europe? Because we are absolutely certain and convinced that if the European Union does not change the direction of social and labour rights, it will be dissolved. Only way that the world of work does not fall apart is to understand its face in the European Union, where there are ways of working together for something better. Mr. Blonde gave you an example of how the countries of the south are going to change the association of powers in relation to the pharmaceutical companies. That's what we understand, speaking on the left. We understand that whether it is about the price of medicines or not there is a tax war - and what Ireland is doing - to have low taxes to go there - or on ecological issues at national level are not solved. However, we are saying more than that, if they are not solved there is no reason for this European Union and it has no prospect. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And that's what I'm closing down with, Mr. President. It is not just a question of what is going on at supranational level. If we are to be able to complete this memorandum, when we leave and reduce surveillance, we must have our own plan for development, for all that we have announced, for the way we place emphasis on small and medium-sized enterprises and for how the excess, which you are mocking it, can be an industrial and regional policy tool, which was not a trace. All these things and how you intervene in the agricultural sector and in various areas are our prospect of looking forward, with new financial instruments, with new development agencies and the social sector. For all this, we will be judged in 2019 and in the elections, after 2023, whether we can bring a development model that does not return to 2019, which is not only the big streets and the big investment, but many small investments that are taking place for an economy like Greece. And that's why we'll be judged. I'm just finishing up, saying the last one. We should also be judged in another area, and that is the area of democracy, as to whether we can work collectively, in coordination, whether we can have filters for who the investors are coming. Because our problem will not be that there are no investors coming, which you say, but that many investors will come. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] And because not all investors are the same, we will need filters to distinguish between investors who want to invest in the long term and those who want the quick profit. We need a coordinated approach. But you need to be able to activate the Greek people for this different development plan. And I finish as I began, that without the active involvement of the Greek people, without understanding what we are trying to do, without his criticism that will tell us that we do not do well what we do well, the correlations of power do not change. And that is the final point that we are going to pursue. We seek a Greek Left, a Greek Government that intervenes in the real society, with the real problems, giving real solutions. And that's why we'll be judged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u658	Thank you, Mr. Euklidis Tsakalotos. In his speech the debate was closed. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles, amendment and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance is finalised: ‘Retirement provisions of the Ministry of Finance and amending the provisions of Law.4387/2016, measures implementing the budgetary objectives and reforms, social support measures and labour regulations, the medium-term framework of the Financial Strategy 2018-2021 and other provisions’. Ladies and gentlemen, a request has been made for a roll-call vote in principle on the articles of the bill, as well as on the Ministerial Amendment No 1032/164, by Members of the SYRIZA, whose text is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u659	I will also read out the list of signatories to the request for a roll-call vote of SYRIZA Members to determine whether the number required by the Rules of Procedure is available. Mr. Antoniou Christos. Here you go. Mrs. Vagonakis Evangelia. Here. Mr. Gatis Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. Giannakides Stathis. Here you go. Mr. Giolas John. Here you go. Mrs. Trollerite Maria. Here. Mrs. Theophebetto Aphrodite. Here. Mr. Theonas John. Here you go. Mrs. Inglezi Catherine. Here. Mr. Karayannis Christos. Here you go. Mr. Madas Christos. Here you go. Mr. Mardas Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. Meikopoulou Alexandros. Here you go. Mr. Michalis Athanasios. Here you go. Mr. Balaouras Rissos. Here you go. Mr. Barcas Constantine. Here you go. Mr. Beyalas Christos. Here you go. Mr. Bolaris Marcos. Here you go. Mr. Papadopoulos Athanasios. Here you go. Mr. Pavlides Konstantinos. Here you go. Mr. Pratsol Anastasios. Here you go. Mr. Sifakis John. Here you go. Mr. Symblene Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Triantafylides Alexander. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote for members of the SYRIZA. A request has also been made for a roll-call vote on the principle and on Articles 1, 2, 10, 15 and 163 of the draft law, by Members of the New Democracy whose text reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u660	I'll also read the list of signatories to the application...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u661	Mr. President, may I, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u662	Here, I'm listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u663	Thank you, Mr President. As you will certainly read, the New Democracy's request for a roll-call vote, in addition to the articles you have read, also includes a request for a roll-call vote to be taken on the amendment tabled by Members of the New Democracy. Firstly, the application is so filed. Therefore, once it is tabled, you must read it in order to be accepted or not. You cannot interfere with the text. Secondly, in order to prevent the economy of the debate, because this House is overshadowed, I may hear the argument, 'yes, but it was not accepted by the Minister or the government', did it? As you know, this is not enough, because there are amendments from Parliament, from Members. The House is legislating. Therefore, for some reason it must not be put to the vote and the reason cannot be that the government does not accept it. It can be decided that the House will accept it - I don't think so, but in any case. I think, however, that, to end with all this, there is no reason here that this amendment should not be put to a roll-call vote. We have heard the government's positions, the House will now decide.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u664	Mr Voridis, you are only too experienced to know that the parliamentary amendments, wherever they come from, if they are not accepted by the Minister and they are not incorporated into the bill - either as an article itself or as a legislative improvement - are not put to the vote in this House. The only amendments put to the vote are ministerial amendments. What you're saying has never happened before. It's outside of every parliamentary procedure. We haven't followed her, and please don't insist. In what you said, and that we made an intervention in the text, if you wish to remove the whole of your paragraph and your application, you can do so. But we were obliged to accept the 1030/162, which was a parliamentary amendment, for the reason I explained earlier. I would ask that we do not continue because there is no room for changing the tactics and starting to vote in this House on amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u665	Mr President, if I may, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u666	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u667	I insist on my point of view and I will tell you why. I'll take care of it, I won't trouble this House. I'll take care of it. But I insist on my point of view from a point of view of the Rules of Procedure. My point of view from the point of view of the Rules of Procedure is that there could be arguments for not putting the amendment to the vote. One argument is that it was late. Another argument is that it is not accompanied by a report from the General Accounting Office. Therefore, there can be arguments. But what does the Rules of Procedure say about them if they were put forward? You didn't show up on this, you said something else. But if they were to be put forward, what does the Rules of Procedure say? That the House decides whether or not it will be put to the vote. I shall therefore accept the view here of the majority, so that we do not trouble ourselves, that the majority obviously does not want the amendment to distribute dividends and surpluses in this House. I accept that, ladies and gentlemen, so that you do not mind. Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u668	All right, all right. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[Enter page 606a]] [[Insert page 608a]] You can understand that it was Mr Voridi's awkward way to continue talking and argument, while the debate has been concluded. I'm ignoring it. I'm ignoring it. I would like to say that this is not a proper parliamentary procedure. Everyone could do it, but you see the rest of the two hundred ninety-nine didn't do it. So I reread the motion for a roll-call vote on behalf of the New Democracy. [[Noise in the Chamber]] If you are kind, because we are in the voting process, I would ask you to do a great deal of quiet, so that no mistake can be made. So we're going on. I will also read out the list of signatories to the request for the roll-call vote of Members of the New Democracy to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for its submission. Mr. Stavros Christos. Here you go. Mr. Voridis Mavroudis. Here you go. Mr. Tsiaras Konstantinos. Here you go. Mrs. Arabatzis Lighthouse. Here. Mr. Besiropoulos Apostolos. Here you go. Mr Anastasiades Savvas. Here you go. Mr. Consolas Emmanuel. Here you go. Mrs. Vultish Sophia. Here. Mr. Giannakis Stergios. Here you go. Mr. Kelles Christos. Here you go. Mr. Andrian John. Here you go. Mr. Dimas Christos. Here you go. Mr. Augias Eleftherios. Here you go. Mrs. Antoniou Maria. Here. Mr. Varvitsiotis Miltiadis. Here you go. Mr. Kyriazidis Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. Metarakis Panagiotis. Here you go. Mrs. Rapthi Helen. Here. Mr. Stylos George. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for the roll-call vote of Members of the New Democracy. In addition, a request has been made for a roll-call vote on Articles 1 to 15, 17 to 20, 57, 58, 69 and 80 of the bill by Members of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR and signed by the Independent MEP, Mr. Karras Georgios, whose text reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u669	I will also read out the list of signatories to the request for a roll-call vote of Members to the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR and the Independent MEP Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to establish whether the number required by the Rules of Procedure is available. Ms. Fotini (Fhot). Here. Mr. Arvanitides Georgios. Here you go. Mr. Venizelos Evangelos. Here you go. Mr. Ahmet Ilhan. Here you go. Mr. Gregorakos Leonidas. Here you go. Mr. Theocharopoulos Athanasios. Here you go. Mr. Kegeroglu Vasiliou. Here you go. Mrs. Kefalidou Hara. Here. Mr. Koutsoukos John. Here you go. Mr. Barriots Constantine. Here you go. Mr. Kremastinos Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. Constantinople Odysseus. Here you go. Mr. Constantopoulos Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. Loverdos Andreas. Here you go. Mr. Maniotis John. Here you go. Mr. Papatheodoros Theodore. Here you go. Mr. Scandalidis Konstantinos. Here you go. Mr. Jelephus Michael. Here you go. Mrs. Christophilopoulou. Here. Mr. Karras Georgios - Dimitrios. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for the roll-call vote of Members of the PASOK - DIMAR and the Independent MEP. Karras. Finally, a request has been made for a roll-call vote on the principle and on Articles 1, 2, 10, 16, 17, 20, 49, 58 and 163 of the bill by Members of the Communist Party of Greece, whose text reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u670	I shall also read out the list of signatories to the request for a roll-call vote of Members of the Communist Party of Greece to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for its submission. Mr. Koutsoubas Dimitrios. Here you go. Mrs. Papapaiga Alexandra. Here. Mr. Bardale Athanasios. Here you go. Mr. Giokas John. Here you go. Mr. Delis John. Here you go. Mrs. Canelle Liana. Here. Mr. Karathanasopoulos Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Katsotis Christos. Here you go. Mr. Lambroulis George. Here you go. Mrs. Manolaku Diamond. Here. Mr. Moraitis Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Paphis Athanasios. Here you go. Mr. Steerios Constantine. Here you go. Mr. Synthrates Emmanuel. Here you go. Mr. Tassos Stavros. Here you go. There is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote of Members of the Communist Party of Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept to compress the roll-call votes on one?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u671	So the House unanimously agreed. Adjourn the sitting for ten (10') minutes under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u672	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. A roll-call vote will take place in principle on all the articles, as well as on the Ministerial Amendment No 1032/164 of the draft Law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Retirement provisions of the Ministry of Finance and amending the provisions of Law4387/2016, measures implementing the budgetary objectives and reforms, social support measures and labour regulations, the medium-term framework of the Financial Strategy 2018-2021 and other provisions’. They accept the bill in principle, the articles and the amendment say 'NEI'. Unacceptable people say 'OH'. The voters say 'PARON'. Parliamentarians Mr Anastasia Gara from SYRIZA and Mr Apostolos Vesyropoulos from New Democracy are on the list. I would also like to inform you that fax (fax) colleagues have come to the Bureau in accordance with Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, which makes their votes known in principle, on articles and on an amendment to the bill. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. Before the vote begins, I would like to inform you of the position to be taken by the Golden Dawn vote. Seventeen files have been sent to the Bureau by Members of the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group with the following content. It is the text signed by each Member: ‘To the President of Parliament, I declare that I do not wish to legitimize an invalid and illegal procedure with my presence. I denounce the illegal and unconstitutional exclusion of the People's Association Parliamentary Group - Golden Dawn. I am voting against the bill. 18-5-2017. The Declaration Hajissava Christos, Deputy Kilkis People's Association - Golden Dawn." I imagine the rest of the files have the same content. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u673	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letters sent to the Bureau by colleagues under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure will be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u674	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that we have received letters from colleagues in the Bureau, Mr Nikolaos - Georgios Dentas and Mr Annas - Michelle Asmakopoulou, who know that they are absent from the vote and that if they were present they would vote as the New Democracy. Seventeen Members of the Golden Dawn have also been tabled, making their vote known. These letters, which express the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but are not taken into account in the counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u675	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and to get the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u676	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote in this House. They voted 281 MPs. In favour of the principle of the draft law, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against the principle of the bill, i.e. 'OH', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Consequently, the draft Law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Retirement provisions and modification of provisions of L.4387/2016, measures implementing budgetary objectives and reforms, social support measures and labour regulations, the medium-term financial strategy framework 2018-2021 and other provisions’ was accepted in principle by a majority. A total of 281 Members voted on Article 1. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 154 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', 127 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 2 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 154 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', 127 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 2 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. A total of 281 Members voted on Article 3. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 154 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', 127 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 4 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 154 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', 127 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 5 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 154 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', 127 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 6 has adopted a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 154 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', 127 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 7 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 154 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', 127 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 7 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. A total of 281 Members voted on Article 8. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 154 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', 127 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. A total of 281 Members voted on Article 9. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 154 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', 127 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 10 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 154 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', 127 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Article 11 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 154 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', 127 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 12 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 154 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', 127 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 13 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 154 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', 127 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Rule 14 was adopted by a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 154 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', 127 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Article 15 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 15 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Article 16 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 16 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Article 17 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 18 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 18 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Article 19 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 20 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 20 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 21 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 21 was therefore accepted as being majority. A total of 281 Members voted on Article 22. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 22 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 23 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 23 was therefore accepted as being majority. A total of 281 Members voted on Rule 24. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 24 was therefore accepted as being majority. A total of 281 Members voted on Article 25. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 25 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 26 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 26 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 27 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 27 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Article 28 has voted for a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 28 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. A total of 281 Members voted on Article 29. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 29 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 30 has adopted a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 30 has therefore been accepted as majority. Article 31 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 31 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 32 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 32 has therefore been accepted as majority. Article 33 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 33 has therefore been accepted as majority. Article 34 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 34 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 35 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 35 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 36 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 154 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', 127 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 36 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 37 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 154 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', 127 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 37 was therefore accepted as being majority. Rule 38 was adopted by a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 154 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', 127 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 38 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Article 39 has adopted a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 154 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', 127 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 39 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Article 40 has passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 154 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', 127 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 40 has therefore been accepted as majority. Article 41 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 154 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', 127 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 41 has therefore been accepted as majority. Article 42 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 154 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', 127 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 42 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. A total of 281 Members voted on Rule 43. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 154 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', 127 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 43 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Article 44 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 154 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', 127 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 44 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 45 has passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 154 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', 127 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 45 has therefore been accepted as majority. Article 46 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 46 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 47 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 47 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Article 48 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 48 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 49 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 49 has therefore been accepted as majority. Article 50 has passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 50 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Article 51 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 51 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Article 52 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 52 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 53 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 53 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. A total of 281 Members voted on Rule 54. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 54 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 55 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 55 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Article 56 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 152 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted for 1 Member. Article 56 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Article 57 has adopted a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 57 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 58 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 58 has therefore been accepted as majority. Article 59 has adopted a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 59 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. A total of 281 Members voted on Article 60. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 60 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Article 61 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 61 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 62 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 154 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', 127 Members voted. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 62 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 63 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 63 was therefore accepted as a majority. A total of 281 Members voted on Rule 64. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 64 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 65 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 65 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Article 66 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 66 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 67 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 67 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Article 68 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 68 was therefore accepted as a majority. Rule 69 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 69 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 70 has passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 279 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', two Members voted. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 70 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Article 71 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 279 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', two Members voted. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 71 was therefore accepted as a majority. A total of 281 Members voted on Article 72. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 154 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', 127 Members voted. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 72 was therefore accepted as being majority. A total of 281 Members voted on Article 73. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 73 was therefore accepted as being majority. Rule 74 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 74 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 75 has adopted a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 75 has therefore been accepted as majority. Article 76 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 76 was therefore accepted as a majority. Rule 77 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 77 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 78 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 78 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 79 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 79 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 80 has passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 80 has therefore been accepted as majority. Article 80a passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 80a was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 81 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 81 was therefore accepted as majority. Rule 82 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 82 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 83 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 154 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', 127 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 83 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. A total of 281 Members voted on Rule 84. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 154 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', 127 Members voted. "PARON" voted for 1 Member. Article 84 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Article 85 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 85 was therefore accepted as majority. Article 86 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 86 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 87 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 87 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. A total of 281 Members voted on Article 88. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 88 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. A total of 281 Members voted on Article 89. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 89 has therefore been accepted as majority. A total of 281 Members voted on Article 90. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 90 was therefore accepted as a majority. A total of 281 Members voted on Rule 91. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 91 was therefore accepted as a majority. A total of 281 Members voted on Article 92. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 92 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 93 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 93 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 94 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 94 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 95 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 95 was therefore accepted as a majority. A total of 281 Members voted on Article 96. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 155 Members voted. Against this article, 126 Members voted against. "PARON" voted no one. Article 96 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 97 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 97 was therefore accepted as a majority. A total of 281 Members voted on Article 98. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 98 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 99 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 99 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 100 has voted for a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 100 has therefore been accepted as majority. Article 101 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 101 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 102 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 102 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 103 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 103 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 104 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 154 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', 127 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 104 was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Article 105 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 154 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', 127 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 105 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 106 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 154 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', 127 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 106 was therefore accepted as a majority. A total of 281 Members voted on Article 107. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 154 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', 127 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 107 was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Article 108 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 154 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', 127 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 108 was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Article 109 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 154 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', 127 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 109 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 110 has passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 154 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', 127 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 110 has therefore been accepted as majority. Article 111 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 154 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', 127 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 111 was therefore accepted as being majority. A total of 281 Members voted on Rule 112. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 154 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', 127 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 112 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 113 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 154 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', 127 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 113 has therefore been accepted as majority. Article 114 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 154 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', 127 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 114 was therefore accepted as a majority. A total of 281 Members voted on Rule 115. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 154 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', 127 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 115 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 116 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 154 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', 127 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 116 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 117 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 154 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', 127 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 117 was therefore accepted as a majority. A total of 281 Members voted on Rule 118. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 118 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Article 119 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 119 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Article 120 has adopted a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 120 has therefore been accepted as majority. Article 121 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 121 was therefore accepted as a majority. A total of 281 Members voted on Rule 122. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 122 was therefore accepted as being majority. Rule 123 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 123 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 124 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 124 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 125 has passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 125 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 126 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 126 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 127 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 127 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Article 128 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 128 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 129 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 129 was therefore accepted as a majority. A total of 281 Members voted on Article 130. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 130 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Article 131 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 131 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Article 132 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 132 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 133 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 133 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 134 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 134 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 135 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 135 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. A total of 281 Members voted on Rule 136. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 136 was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Article 137 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 137 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 138 has passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 138 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 139 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 139 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Article 140 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 140 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Article 141 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 141 was therefore accepted as being majority. Rule 142 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 142 was therefore accepted as a majority. Rule 143 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 143 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Rule 144 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 144 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Rule 145 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 145 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 146 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 146 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 147 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 147 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 148 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 148 was therefore accepted as a majority. A total of 281 Members voted on Rule 149. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 149 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 150 has passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 150 has therefore been accepted as majority. Article 151 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 151 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 152 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 152 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 153 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 153 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 154 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 154 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 155 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 155 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Article 156 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 156 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 157 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 157 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 158 has passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 158 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 159 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 159 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 160 has passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. Article 160 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 161 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. Article 161 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 162 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. Article 162 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 163 passed a total of 281 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. Article 163 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Amendment No 1032 and Amendment No 164 of the draft law have adopted a total of 281 Members. In addition to the amendment 'NAH', 172 Members voted. On the amendment, namely 'Notice', 108 Members voted. "PARON" voted for 1 Member. Therefore, the amendment under a general number 1032 and a special 164 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article with number 58A. A total of 281 Members voted on the agenda. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 128 Members voted. It is therefore accepted that the Court of First Instance should have its seat in the European Court of Justice, acting by a majority of its Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u677	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Retirement provisions and modification of the provisions of L.4387/2016, measures implementing the budgetary objectives and reforms, social support measures and labour regulations, the medium-term financial strategy framework 2018-2021 and other provisions’ was accepted in principle and on the articles. We move on to vote on the bill and on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u678	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u679	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u680	The PASOK Democratic Assent - DIMAR is missing. The People's Association - Golden Dawn is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u681	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u682	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u683	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u684	The river is missing. Consequently, the draft Law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Retirement provisions and modification of provisions of L.4387/2016, measures implementing budgetary objectives and reforms, social support measures and labour regulations, the medium-term framework of the Financial Strategy 2018-2021 and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of the articles and of the whole and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u685	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u686	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-18-S1-commons.u687	With the consent of the House, the sitting for today, on Friday, May 19, 2017, at 10.00, on the subject of the proceedings of the House: a) a special session of Parliament on the Memorandum of Remembrance of the Greek Population of the Pontum and b) parliamentary scrutiny, discussion of current questions.
