ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 9-6-2017, the PLB minutes of its meeting of Friday 9 June 2017 were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Statification of the amended Agreement establishing the General Fisheries Commission for the Mediterranean, public pension arrangements and other provisions’.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We begin with the fourth question under number 919/31-5-2017 for the first time in the Parliamentary of Attica of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Giokas to the Ministers for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights and Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on "the condemnation of disciples of the 1st High School of Rethymnon to "social work", due to their participation in student mobilisations". The question will be answered by the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr Gavroglou. Mr Gioka, before I give you the floor, I would ask you to keep track of the time, because he is following a question from the New Democracy following the debate on the topical and urgent questions. Mr. Gioka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the question concerns at least the unprecedented incident in Rethymnon in the last few years, where high school children have been sentenced to eighty hours of social work on the basis of Article 122 of the Criminal Code for the reason that these students have participated, first in mobilisations which have been decided with their other classmates. The whole process was initiated at the initiative of the school director, who informed the prosecutor. After a week, the students ’ parents testified to the police station and then students and parents filed the prosecutor's office. The terrible crime they were convicted of was the destruction of a lock on the school door. They were convicted of the destruction of public property, while both the teachers' association and the parents' association admitted that no damage had been done in the school building. The court, therefore, condemned the students a month ago, and the parents of the students were also charged with neglecting child supervision, regardless of whether they were finally acquitted. The most worrying thing, however, which is also mentioned in our question, apart from the very serious fact itself, is that this year, over the days and your government, there have been indisputable cases of persecution, condemnation of pupils and parents on the charge of neglecting minors, only for participation in mobilisations or in respect of parents, for the support, self-evident support they have given to their children, who have struggled. So we're not talking about an isolated event. There are political responsibilities here. There are responsibilities in both the Ministry and the government as a whole, which you are trying to renounce, hiding behind the supposed independence of justice, behind a strict director or a strict judge. However, because we consider this particular incident and the intensity of authoritarianism, particularly in schools, to be a political issue, we are therefore asking what measures the government intends to take to ensure that the unacceptable penalty decision is taken to the students of the 1st High School of Rethymnon, what measures it will take to stop any threat of persecution against pupils and parents and, of course, what legislative measures and initiatives it intends to take to avoid such incidents in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u5	Mr Gioka, I am surprised that you have omitted a very important element in your speech. The important thing is that since May 11, 2016, the SYRIZA Government has abolished the law, which criminalises student mobilisations. Based on this logic, Ms. Xeni Demetriou, Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, intervened precisely in this case and asked for his re-examination. I, personally, have just made this situation public, with a statement which does not raise many interpretations, made it clear that the Ministry of Education does not only adopt such practices, but also condemns them unequivocally. Authenticism in schools does not seem to be part of the educational process. In a democratic school there are rules. Obviously these rules also include the mobilisation of pupils. So here we are dealing with a very strange phenomenon, where after so long, when, as you said, there were no material damages, as you said, there was a referral to the prosecutor of this particular incident by the director. As I said to you, for about a year and a half, the government has abolished the corresponding provisions and we, with very specific intervention, condemned this fact.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u6	Please, Mr Gioka, you have the floor for three minutes again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u7	Minister, first of all I think that the disapproval of this particular incident, made on the part of the government, was not honest - and I will tell you what I mean - and it came as a result of the outcry that broke out on the basis of this particular incident. In fact, the Ministry of Education made a statement that changed it in the course of the course, removing the pieces of the communication from the body, which concerned the condemnation of the judicial decision. They only lived in the convict of the director's attitude. And, of course, the second communication was not about the need to change the legislative framework, which the first communication from the Ministry did. That is, your attitude, your conviction, at least, contradictory. Secondly, as I said before, in my prototype, the incident of Rethymnon is not an isolated incident. This year there have been uncertain cases of such incidents with the police in the schools in Lamia, Heraklion, with the conviction of students in Thessaloniki and with the imposition of a penalty of reform measures there, regardless of whether or not he saw the light of publicity. We had asked a timely question then, Minister, and it had been answered by the State Secretary, Mr Baxvanakis. So it wasn't an isolated incident that we were talking about and it happened in Rethymnon. We're talking about a lot of cases we had this year. In fact, this year, if I'm not mistaken this year, is the first year after 2001 when there is a conviction of students in Thessaloniki and the recent one in Rethymnon. Thirdly, you referred to the act of legislation that you abolished, as you said. That's right. It was also our request to abolish the legislative act. Nevertheless, despite the fact that the act of law has been abolished, there are persecutions and convictions on the basis of intangible criminal laws. It is not a question of abolishing an act of law and continuing authoritarianism on the basis of other criminal provisions. The question is that there should not be such persecutions and such convictions. What I am going to do if the act of legislation has been abolished and the convictions are not only going on, they are also intensified. In fact, I told you that this conviction is about the destruction of public property. There was an incident in Kilkis, still pending court proceedings, where a student is charged with the basis of a post-election law. So the question, Minister, is not just the act of legislation which you have done well and abolished and was a request for years. The question is that there should not be such practices and behaviour which, in our view, intensify authoritarianism.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u8	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u9	I shall conclude, Mr President. I shall be presenting to the Minutes, so that everyone can have the debate on the topical and urgent question, which we had tabled in November and discussed with Mr Baxvanakis at that time on the relevant incidents of that period and, in particular, on Thessaloniki. From the Secretary-General's answer at that time, not only did there arise condemnation of these incidents, but there was - if you like - at least silence - not to say tolerance - for such practices, which give the green light to continue with such phenomena.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u10	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u11	In our view, authoritarianism is a complement to a policy aimed at the people and the people. Regardless of the various krone, sooner or later, anyone who follows such policies will also resort to authoritarianism.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u12	Mr. Gabroglou, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. It's not clear what you're asking. Because if you want to have a debate - which is a very serious debate - on the issue of authoritarianism, we should do so. But we're going to do it all the time. We will do it for how it works within the parties, outside the parties, in society, in the various institutions of society.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u14	In the House...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u15	Of course, in the House. But we are going to open this whole thing up. Because I hope you know that the issue of authoritarianism goes far beyond the issue of legislation. It would be a wish, but it has not been done in the history of mankind, that the laws should be applied in such a way that their content and spirit immediately take place. So here we really have a lot of such phenomena. Democracy fortunately has ways of dealing with it. I have said publicly in an interview that I had done that there is another thing about respecting the decisions of justice as a state and it is another - and that is very important - that the citizens, the ministers and the judiciary should have an opinion. I believe that it is an authoritarian behaviour that does not help neither the educational process nor the efficiency of justice. And because there are such examples of authoritarianism, that doesn't mean anyone can do whatever they want. So there's a framework. This framework is laid down by laws and by our Constitution and within this framework - fortunately it is too spacious - we can all coexist. I conclude by saying that the debate on authoritarianism is an interesting debate. We have abolished this act of legislation and condemned such phenomena that may indeed have a very negative impact on the lives and daily lives of pupils, and let us not forget that they are usually minor children, on which this authoritarianism applies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u16	We move on with the fifth under number 947/6-2017 a topical question for the Second Cycle of MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "To reopen the Integrated Information System for the Management of Personnel Primary and Secondary Education (OPSYD) for those who did not have time to do so". Please, Mr. Delis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, today's question is about the wandering and most vulnerable work part of the educational world, the substitutes and the matures. This year, therefore, the Ministry of Education changed the application time for the candidates to join the lists of alternates and wages for the school year 2017-2018, starting in September. And while so far this procedure of applying has been done in the summer and after the end of the school year, every July, this year the Ministry of Education suddenly set the time limits for this process much earlier and specifically within April, from April 13 to April 28th. We note that at the same time schools were closed because of Easter holidays and they only opened on 24 April, with all that that means. The result of this year's selection of the Ministry of Education was that hundreds of teachers who, as revealed every day, are becoming more and more aware of themselves, were not informed in time for various reasons and did not submit their documents within this deadline set by the Ministry, so they risk being unemployed, because many of them worked this year. We think it is far beyond unfairness, Minister, to exclude teachers from the possibility of applying for work, but also to exclude them from work. However, this particular decision of the Ministry has had three other side effects, which are not at all trivial. In particular, on the basis of this year's Circular of the Ministry of Education for April, as I said a little earlier, the graduate students of the educational departments are excluded from their application, since April had not, of course, been able to obtain a degree, which was not done in the previous years, such as those who are studying at ASPATE, while in addition it is not counted as a pre-service time in May and June of the school year which is just over. Our request is that you should reopen the information system, give all these people the opportunity to submit their applications so that they can regain the right to work. Behind these people are hiding families with too many obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u18	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u19	Mr Delis, you said that it was so long in July, and this year this application procedure took place. This, as a citizen and as a Member of Parliament, should have applauded, because if we want schools to be opened up on time, certain things must also be done on time. Secondly, I want to ask you something else. Do you know how many applications they made? Do you have the number? So I'll tell you what. More than a hundred thousand applications have been made. It can't be a hundred thousand people to whom we said "go, apply" and the four hundred thirty three, who didn't apply, to be the ones we blamed. We have said since the beginning of the year that everything will be done before, because they have to pass through the AACC so that the legality of these applications can be checked. Over a hundred thousand people - and I have here very detailed information - applied for when this system was opened. We cannot open this system because, as I have said to the interested parties, if that is the case, then the whole process is being delayed to open up the schools. You can understand that the issue you raise with the graduates of educational schools again is an issue, which will actually lead to the school not opening in September. I would therefore ask you not to join a movement of impression, where everything that seems reasonable and sympathetic should be adopted. In this case, if this happens, we will be delaying another two months, which will bring all kinds of problems to the opening-up of schools. At some point a regularity has to be in the procedures and they must be observed. As it turns out, over a hundred thousand people were observed. Indeed, if I'm not mistaken, about four hundred forty-three were unable to apply. Also, do not make it dramatic, although it is very serious. But they lost this deadline because they thought it would be in July, while we have said when it would happen and could be updated by the Ministry's site. I would therefore ask you to contribute to ensuring that this type of impression is not created that we want to exclude a world from applying for assistant teachers and teachers in schools.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u20	Mr. Delia, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u21	You said, Minister, and you even asked us if we wanted to open the schools properly in September and that it depends on the requests made in April. I would like to tell you, Minister, that it does not depend on this alone - or above all on this - the normal opening-up of schools - with what this means - to teachers, with all the equipment that they need, in the process. It is the responsibility of the Ministry of Education and this requires brave funding, an increase in operating expenditure on schools, which, as you know very well, are very narrow and have a very serious economic problem. In any case, what we want to say, Minister, is that this application was made for the first time this year. This is a world that you said is four hundred. We say there are several more, several hundred. Every day, young people come out.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u22	How many? Tell us the number, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u23	I'm speaking on the basis of articles. These people have been opened and a website on the Internet, which is updated every day. In any case, we do not understand this insistence, which I do not know if it is a demonstration of force or analgesia of four hundred, five hundred or six hundred people, to whom you deny the right to apply, saying that this will delay the process for two months. We believe that this excuse is not correct, Minister, because it is just a matter of justification - and you have a great responsibility towards them and their families to now open up the system for a reasonable period of time so that these people can get the right to work. I have to tell you here - and I said it in my prototype - that when this process started, the schools were closed. The Ministry's announcement came out in the Ministry's press releases and not in the announcements. There are also a number of irregularities which have not helped these people to be informed. At the same time they had health problems themselves or their relatives and lost this deadline. So I do not understand this perseverance and this refusal, Minister, and anyway you should assume your responsibilities towards these teachers' families. We're talking about substitutes, we're talking about people who have a suitcase in hand and who go around Greece, who don't have the same rights as permanent teachers, and now you come to a piece of them - it doesn't matter if it's small or large - you're not able to work next year. You have a responsibility and we invite you to take it one more time. People have also made mobilisations, too many are asking you, and we need an explanation why you so stubbornly refuse to open this system in order to be able to submit their applications.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u24	Thank you. Please, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u25	First of all, this is not a personal matter. I hope you understand that. Isn't that right? Because the way you spoke to it is like it's up to me to open up and close systems electronically. That's not what this is all about, Mr. Delis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u26	I spoke for a political decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u27	These things can't be done. I want you to know that. Society has gone a little further than such misery of ministers. Secondly, you said: 'Fortunately, the normal opening up of schools does not depend only on it'. So you accept that it depends on that, too. Thirdly, you say schools at that time were closed. But the hundred thousand who applied were not people who worked in schools. So they made the application both from their home and from their friends and from wherever there were computers. How is it possible a hundred thousand - if I'm not mistaken, I may be wrong, but more than a hundred thousand candidates - to know it, to have applied, etc. And don't these people have applied for? It is not - and you may not really know that - that moves forward, opens up the system, puts the others in, closes the system and keeps moving. It is that if the system is opened, any procedure is cancelled and you must start from the beginning, not those who applied for, but I mean for the study of applications. But to agree on something you said and you are absolutely right there too, as you know, we do what goes through our hand, unfortunately not too much. I hope, however, that we can say more when the evaluation is closed. The status of assistant teachers and teachers is an unacceptable scheme. The conventions are inconsistent with humane contracts, such as most of these people, in the educational work, and they should indeed have more decent contracts and, of course, the road to permanent appointments should be opened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u28	They will not be debated as a result of an impediment to the competent ministers, as the Secretary-General of the Government informs us, Mr Kalogerou, and the following questions will be redefined for discussion: The fifth under number 929/2-6-2017 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance on the theft of electricity. The sixth question under number 931/2-6-2017, first question by MP, Athens, Potamios, George Amyras, to the Minister of Finance, on the 'Siemens' case. The third, with number 924/1-6/2017, is a topical question of the second-round Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zaroulias to the Minister of Finance, regarding the appointment of judge to the administration of the Supreme Court. Also, the fourth question under number 948/6-2017, the second question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece, Sakis Vardalis to the Minister of Finance, concerning the Greek Vehicle Industry "EL.V.O.B.E.", will not be discussed due to a workload of the relevant Minister, obviously due to the Eurogroup. The first under number 942-6-2017, the second time question from the New Democracy MP, Christos Boukokorous, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "A dramatic situation in the Second Pathological Clinic Volos", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paul Pavlos Polakis, on account of unsuccessful obligations. The second question, under number 943/6-2017, is the second time of the Member of Parliament's Layer of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "There is a national and regional strategy for the development of medical tourism?" will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Minister of Health Mr. Xanthi, because he will be out of Athens. The second, with number 933/2-6-2017, topical question by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdus to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, concerning the conspiracy of children, will not be discussed due to the sickness of the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights Mr. Kontonis. Finally, the third, with number 923/1-6/2017, is a top-stage question for the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christou Papa to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "fulfilment of the Order of the Nation", is not discussed. Next is the question asked by MP Rodopi of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Ahmet Ilhan to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the preservation of the 'dyspherics' category of secondary school units of the Soaps and Iasmos Rhodope. Mr Ilhan has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, my question concerns, as the President has said, the maintenance of schools in the Sapphi and Jasmou districts in the difficult category. You've issued a circular with which you've been remodeling. It could have some sense in other areas. As far as the region of Thrace is concerned, however, you know that there are various problems. First of all, the school units of Sappon and Iasmos are located in a border area and in these schools 90% of the children are in the minority. As you know, Rhodope does not have an airport, nor is it easy to access these schools from all the teachers. It may have improved the road network a little, but this does not mean that it is a competitive area. Minister, as it seems in my question, the schools that are being spoken about will not be attractive in the preference of teachers, whether they are permanent or permanent, and they will have to provide the extra molecules for them to be incapacitated in order to choose them. In any other case, if the Ministry continues the same practice and we do not maintain them consistently as inaccessible, these two schools - as ELME Rhodope says, with a decision that I shall table in the Minutes, as well as a resolution of the Municipality of Maronia and Sappas - will be forced to close. These children will be required by Iasmos to go to Xanthi and the Sappon region to go to Komotini, and even when there is no public high school or high school in the Municipality of Arrianes next to the Municipality of Sappon. You know very well that the children of the whole region go to school. We want to ask if you will ultimately maintain the privilege of the disobedient in these two schools in the Rhodope Prefecture. As far as school in Organy, which is a special case in the mountainous volume, is concerned, not only to maintain its molecule as an inappropriate, but also to provide additional molecules.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u30	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u31	Mr. Ilhan, you're right. It's a serious problem. You know that the process of remodeling takes place in a lot of schools. These schools aren't targeted. It shall be made of the training directors, going to the regional director and then, on a proposal from the relevant senior central board, shall define schools operating in difficult and isolated areas. Indeed, the schools you refer to are in difficult areas. As far as I understand it, the document continues to characterise it as schools in difficult areas and I see no reason why it should not continue to be described as such if today's data are still there. I think there is no point in worrying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u32	Mr. Ilhan, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, first of all, I am pleased that you recognize that there is indeed a problem in these two schools. That is very positive. Nevertheless, I would like to table in the Minutes and the resolution of the municipal council and the report by ELME, to be aware of. I believe that the Ministry should generally consider the education policy in the region and not just in the light of difficult schools, because this whole region has a particular need for attention to various educational problems. I am pleased again that you will respond to the request from the operators.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u34	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u35	It is serious what you said, namely that the region has many problems. As you know, we are trying to deal with several of the problems, not all of them. There are difficulties in that. I do not want to come back because it is another question of the educational problems that exist in Thrace and need to be resolved. I'd like to tell you something. Among the infinite pathogens we've been trying to cure for decades, it's to be able to put some rules on unprocessed people again, because you know that various toys have been played on this issue, not on Thrace, but there were schools on paper that were unprocessed, and they weren't at all inadvertent. So the rigour that has come about has to do with an attempt to settle the whole system of unavoidable ones. However, as I told you, it has nothing to do with the schools in Thrace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u36	We move on to the first with number 941/6-2017 in the first cycle of the Member of Parliament, Mr Spyridonos - Adonidos Georgiadis, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The deterioration of classical education in Greece is taking place. Please, Mr Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u37	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to say at the outset, of course, to all the inhabitants of the islands affected by the earthquake, especially the inhabitants of Lesbos, which seems to have been the biggest damage there. I would like to comment on something, Minister, because I cannot help doing so because I have heard your interviews on the Rethymnon issue. Students must learn that there are laws and laws. If you disagree with one of the laws, you are government and you can change the laws. But blaming a school teacher and, in particular, a director, because he applied the law or a court, because he decided according to the law, is completely unreasonable. In any case, students must learn that the laws must be respected and their non-compliance has consequences, because if they learn that at that age, Minister, Greece ends up in West Attica and we want to create a normal European country. This should not be the case for you as Minister of Education to let it spread to Greek society as a concept, namely that children can violate the laws and remain unpunished because they are children. Let us take a closer look at this question. Minister, I will then submit to you in the minutes the successive letters sent to you by the Greek Association of Greek Philologists, a company with a very long history in Greek letters, which demonstrates a huge anxiety about the continuous deterioration of classical studies in Greek middle education and primary education during the SYRIZA administration. I am referring in particular to the lessons of the Ancient Greek and history. I say this in contrast, as we live in a time when there is a great deal of frustration for the success of Macron and I am giving you the first statements by the French Minister of Education, your colleague in France, a very progressive country, on the same subject a few days ago. Asked by some newspaper and by some channel, the new French Minister of Education, Jean-Michelle Blanque, spoke about the first priorities of his ministry and, as he explained, wants to restore bilingual classes, restore the courses for the European Union and make more use of the Latin and ancient Greeks from which our culture comes. "We must stop believing that these studies deepen social differences. They are propulsion tools for everyone," the Minister of Education said. This is what the French Minister for Education said. We would like to hear such a statement from the Minister of Education in Greece, but we hear it, Mr President, from the Minister of Education in France. On the contrary, the Minister of Education of Greece, your predecessor in particular, removed from the 3rd High School the work "Priclous Epitafios", the largest text of democracy on the planet. You have set up a committee - I will explain to you in my dentistry and on the basis of the complaint by the Greek Association of Greek Philologists - where if all these proposals on history are implemented, then only history will not teach the children in Greek schools. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, too. Minister, here you go, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u39	It is what they say 'Where to start and where to end now'!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u40	Well, I'm just sitting here listening to you for a long time, if you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u41	Firstly, let me not go back to Rethymnon, because I think we have discussed it and taken us elsewhere. Look, first of all, I have not heard the "Greek Philologists' Company" complain about how the lessons are being learned, because children often have this language poverty, especially because a disobedience is created in Ancient times. In order not to have any anxiety, his teaching comes back from 2017 and 2018.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u42	That's very pleasant.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u43	But, you know, I don't want to be a spit because the "Eptafios" has been cut. Here was a take news, if you remember, about "Antigon" and no one came out to say that it didn't cross anyone's mind! Okay? Now look! Shall we both accept that papaya has done students who go to universities because of the way in which they prepare to enter universities, people who have nothing left of history? Nothing! You have to find out from the outside, perfect! Out of the way! That's not a way to teach history. That is why a committee was held at the Institute of Education Policy - it is not the Ministry - and the first job that this committee has done is that it raised the question of teaching. In fact, there were two meetings. One with representatives of all departments, whether historical, archaeological or pedagogical, teaching history. Another meeting was held with all scientific bodies. Apart from one vehicle, which objected to the project, there was a consensus that the new programmes could contribute to a new direction, in terms of historical education, because that is what it is all about. Because, look, for too many decades there has been a match between information and knowledge. It changes this relationship anymore and the information doesn't match knowledge. We therefore want to see what it means in today's period, which children with very great ease can find the information, gain an essential knowledge of classical education. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] To stop here, because I'm sure you'll come back with other things and I don't want to repeat myself.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u44	Please, Mr Georgiadis, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u45	I'm sorry you didn't answer for Rethymnon. I would very much like to hear the answer to the need for laws to be respected or not and for children to know whether or not the laws should be complied with, because that is the major one.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u46	I'll answer you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u47	Whether or not he likes the law, Minister you are, change him! But let's go a little bit and see them in a row. First of all, to the parrot! Listen, at the National and Kapodistrian I entered with pan-Hellenics. I'm a third-block kid. So the parrot and how it works, unfortunately, I've learned it very well. From abolishing the parrot, which is the one end, until we don't know any history, I'm sorry, there's a lot of distance. As to whether the Greek Association of Greek Philologists has submitted protests, I will testify to you both. They also have a protocol number at the Ministry of Education, which they have sent to. If you want an opinion, you can invite them to see them. You will not lose at all if you have fifteen, twenty minutes to see the "Greek Philologists Company". Winned, you're going out. University teachers are the people, on a long route to Greek letters. They are people who have been through the Ministry of Education. Something useful may be heard. Well, let's go check it out a little quick. For the fourth grade, the committee's proposal says: "The teaching of ancient and Roman history must be replaced so far with the teaching of family, oral and local history, such as the historicalization of the environment, the creation of family trees, interviews between students." Yes, sir! Now how we're gonna do this to kids who don't know history, you know that. At first grade - I tell you as a science historian - the committee proposes to be taught, be careful, Mr Minister, the historical development from prehistoric to Ottoman conquest. From prehistoric to Ottoman conquest! In other words, you put the neolithic cultures, the Cycladic, the Minoan, the Mycenaean, the geometric times, the archaics, the classical, Hellenistic, the Roman rule, the protobyzantine, the mesobyzantine, the late Byzantine and the Ottoman period. But can you do this in a year?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u48	What does it say about later?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u49	This is for primary school. There's no later. "The emphasis," he says, "to be given to major social and cultural changes." But now we're kidding! If you manage to do this and even learn a proposal from children, then you are not Minister, you are a god, you are more than Minister. You're obviously not! In the F' Municipalities it is proposed: "The teaching of the Greek Revolution to date is to be replaced by the teaching of historical evolution from the 15th century to the present time, focusing mainly on social and cultural changes and less on the examination of specific persons and events." That's great for the theory of history. I don't anticontrast, it all needs to be. When? When you know history. First you learn history and then you go do what you say. We're in danger of having kids out here who won't know a story at all. In the program of high school, 1st to 3th grade and 1st grade, "although reference is made to the time periods of antiquity, Byzantium, modern and modern history, the centre of gravity is given to European and global history." All right! And the Greek history shrinks very much on a few lines. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In order not to take any more speaking time, Minister, you said about the parrot. Do you know where we have arrived in Greece and what the experience of the past is, a past that you defend with the law on universities? It was a time, if I remember correctly in 1987, when they put an issue to the pan-Hellenics, perhaps remember it, which had two horrible and unknown words,'relief' and 'flame'. It took two hours of clarification from the Ministry of Education, to make sure that children could understand what the word "relief" means in Greek and what the word "fairness" means in Greek. The KYR, the well-known cartoonist, had written an amazing cartoon at that time, with a hair with a bag - and I do not make any further comments like some, I do not say more - and he wrote: "The premeditated nomenoplatura of the proletariat dared to put two unfamiliar words in the report of our children: "saving" and "grooming". So, in fact, the models you're defending are not working. I therefore welcome the reintroduction of the text 'Inclusive Epitaphis' in schools. It is a step in the positive direction. I asked for the same thing last year by the Deputy Minister of Education, Mr. Peglerin, and my professor, who had come to answer me and had promised that it would be done. I'm glad it's done. I tell you, call the "Greek Philologists Company". Talk to the "European Society of Philologists", which has made you two protests. What does the European Society of Philologists write? That in all the other European countries, the study of classical languages is also increasing in Greek. To tell me that you will use learning techniques for living languages with you. This does not mean that we will be taught less hours and less. This means that we will be taught the same hours or more, in a different way. There we should discuss it and leave the parrot and the grammar and editorial, which you mentioned earlier. Emphasis on classical studies, Minister. Classics make societies better. Classics make people think more about Greeks as well - why hide it? - they are also an element of pride and national identity. I testify for the Minutes for the two protests. [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u50	Here, Mr. Gavroglou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u51	I think the kids at school should learn to respect the laws. That's clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u52	Okay. We've got it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u53	We didn't find it, unfortunately. Because, between teaching children to respect laws and respecting the fact that they are young, it separates us with an abyss. Because I think of you, when you were young, dedication to the laws was not the first thing you thought about.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u54	We've been through this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u55	I'm coming to second. You have read some proposals from the Committee of the Institute for Education Policy. It is precisely these proposals that will be discussed in society, debated with experts, debated with teachers, and we will end up where we are going to end up. However, you should know - and I hope you understand - that you are not a good historian, knowing only the historical facts. You only become a good historian if you have a historical conscience. That is why we think it will be of enormous interest to acquire this historical consciousness of the past when very small children study the history of their family and the history of their neighborhood. It's not a given to a young child, to a small child, that I have a past as history, I have a past as a neighborhood. That is what we think is an extremely radical step, which will help very much to understand history later on by these children. With regard to the second issue, one of the major problems of teaching history in all countries, but also in us, is that too many times the results of scientific research are not reflected in the school manuals. That's a huge problem. You can't fund research and have excellent historians - we have different approaches. Among the members of the historical community, we have historians who do not agree to their approaches. The whole project, however, is actually an impressive corpus. We therefore say that history programmes should be reformed every time, precisely to take account of the results of historical research. The results of historical investigations are not just because we found a new file. Let me remind you how many times we have renegotiated the issue of the Greek Revolution, the French and many foreigners of the French Revolution and others. New questions, new interpretations, new results. I'm done. I should like to make sure that we do not get rid of the subject of classical studies in only language education. The subject of classical studies is a much more complex project. You referred to these two words of '87 and indeed it was something you should not be very proud of. But let me remind you that in '87 there was not even a SYRIZA. So it was the result of another educational system. That's what we're going to change.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u56	You're defending it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u57	No, I'm not defending it at all. Why should I defend the system that could not teach them two words, which, in any case, if they read a novel, were in the novel. So I say that this is a pathogen for decades that we have to correct. What I would like to say to you, however, is that classical studies must be included in a more general context, what we call 'humanist studies'. It's also in history, it's also in literature, it's in artistic arts, it's in singing. It's in too many things. So what we are saying is to intensify consciousness in society that humanitarian studies are not a luxury in this place. That is why we think we have a lot to say in Europe, because in Europe all this is in a context of upgrading humanitarian studies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. The question of the New Democracy will be followed. There will be a slight interruption, because the Minister is on the way because of the earthquake. So we'll be back in a few minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, following the completion of the time-consuming questions, I continued the adjourned - because of the earthquake in Lesbos - a meeting. Minister, we hope that there are no victims.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u60	There are not so far, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u61	If you have anything official, I will give you the floor to inform the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u62	Thank you very much. Let us reassure the citizens, but let Parliament also be informed. So far there have been few minor injuries. There's nothing to worry about. Seismologists tell us that the seismic sequence is progressing smoothly. From the very beginning we have been in cooperation with the regional, mayor and local authorities. A step has already been taken by NIC, headed by Nikos Toska, the Secretary-General of Infrastructure, with step by step from the Natural Disaster Directorate and special engineers for port infrastructure and road infrastructure. In the evening with the regular flight, there will also be a step in the CCTB for schools and, in collaboration with the Ministry of Education, we will address the issue of the pan-Hellenic examinations currently taking place. There is no need to worry so far. There are old buildings in Mytilini, as you know. He needs some attention. We're in full mobilization. The district has sent all the machines to the south of Lesvos and the mayor is on the ground.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u63	Thank you very much. It is gratifying that there are no victims and there are only injured with such a strong earthquake above six shooters. We hope that by the end of the day everything will go well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY The question under Rule 134(2) of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Senate of New Democracy Mrs Constantine Ah will be debated. Karamanlis to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: ‘Concerning the control of the procedure for the collection and reimbursement of funds to SSH, from the availability of tickets’. Because of Rule 134(2) of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Karamanlis will have 10 minutes for his prototype and five for his denology, Minister Spirtz will also have 10 minutes for his prototype and five for his denology. Mr. Kefaliannis, Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, will have six minutes for his prototype and three minutes for his dentistry, Mr. Karanastasis, Parliamentary Representative of the SYRIZA three minutes, Mr. Theocharopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of the Democratic Association of Greece, Mr. Papachristopoulos, three minutes for Mr. Aivatidis, Parliamentary Representative of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, three minutes, Mr. Katsotis, Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece, three minutes for the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Mr. Karamanlis, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. To wish for the New Democracy, too, the best. We know there's a locked woman in Lesvos. We hope it's all right. And because this is not a controversy point, to say a good reason as Opposition - it is scarce in this Chamber - that the activation of the government was immediate and that is, of course, something positive. Mr President, Minister, the government is unfortunately trying to hide its failure in the urban transport sector as well as in an uncontrolled parafiscal and scandalology. To be more specific, on 16-6-2016, during the debate in the House of Mr Hatzidakis' timely question, the Minister then argued, among other things, that the size of the scandal with the non-performance of ticket and card revenues, which is being investigated, told us that it was around 20 to 30 million euros. I am presenting the quote from the Minister's speech to the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Ah. Karamanlis submits the abovementioned document for the minutes, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Stenography and Practice Directorate.]] Later, on January 31, 2017, a audit report was issued by the General Inspector of Public Administration. According to it, the total amount theoretically not assigned to SSY amounted to EUR 1,166,000 for the year 2014-2015. At that time, we have reports that SASY is carrying out internal audits with the auditors of the Ministry of Finance, i.e. with an independent body. This conclusion of the auditors is forwarded to the Minister on 14 February 2017 and shows that the total that has not ultimately been attributed to the company is EUR 16,981. Today, we see that the KPMG was investigated. The amount for the period 2011-2016 is EUR 3,7 million. For the ultimately criminal prosecution period, that is, for 2014-2015, KPMG calculates the deficit at EUR 291,000, when the General Inspector for Public Administration insists on its own number of EUR 1,166,000. I am presenting in the minutes an excerpt from the findings of the “KPMG”, which was published in the pro-government newspaper “HAY” on May 29, 2017. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Ah. Karamanlis submits the abovementioned document for the minutes, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Stenography and Practice Directorate.]] In our original questions of the New Democracy, therefore, we have seen a number of very reasonable - I think - questions: What is the total amount that has not been assigned to the SAC? The 20 to 30 million referred to by the Minister in Parliament? The EUR 1.2 million report of the Public Administration Inspectorate? The 17,000 euros invoked by the internal control of the STAS, or by the end of the 291,000 euros of the KPMG? Unfortunately, the Minister has not answered us all this time. Radio silence. I hope he will give us answers today. On the contrary, what did the Minister do? He rushed to proclaim in a celebrity manner the exercise of criminal prosecutions before they even became officially known. And I ask directly: is the government trying to gain some political benefit from this story? I want to be clear. If there are criminal offences, let us let the scandal and let justice take care of the case, as is done in every favoured state, and here we are, Minister, to draw political conclusions. All in light, then, from our side. Let's let justice do what he knows to do. But you, on 27 April, announced persecution and the summons were finally delivered a few days ago. And I ask the obvious: is this an interference in justice or is this not an interference in justice? Let us be judged by the citizens who are watching us. But there is one question here: why did the government do that? In our view, I think you are doing this to cover up an undeniable fact, that your Government has transformed a functional surplus, a functional profit of PSY into damage. I am presenting in the Minutes an excerpt from the position of the Minister on 16 June 2016 that recognises this very fact. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Ah. Karamanlis submits the abovementioned document for the minutes, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Stenography and Practice Directorate.]] So you receive urban transport with functional profitability. It is precisely because of this surplus that the administrations were able at that time to do something that is unprecedented for European data, to relieve SSH from the need for state funding and indeed at a ticket price that it was, from 1.40, going to 1.20. The ticket prices today, where are they? It's from 1,20 to 1,40. The buses are immobilized, vandalism and theft of cancellation machines are, as we all know, a daily phenomenon. So you're a left in complete confusion. The ones you're supposed to protect, that is, the non-preferential ones, who every day use public transport, you're finally punishing them. And deportation, unfortunately, will lead to a ruthless privatization, a privatization without any beginning. The figures of the 2017 PSY and SSY budgets are revealing: Damage to both these companies estimated at EUR 58.2 million. Damage to STASY 22.4 million and UCLAF 35.8 million euros. I would remind you that the situation has also been negative for 2016. For the past year, the total damage has been budgeted to reach EUR 77 million. I'm putting down the relevant VECs in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Ah. Karamanlis submits for the minutes the abovementioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Stenography and Practice Directorate.]] So let us also see some elements of the OSH and see where you have led urban transport. Of the two thousand four hundred buses and trolleybuses today, there are thousands of two hundred. They have been cut and we have a reduction of 60%. And more than two hundred fifty urban buses circulating have not been checked for CTEO and have no insurance cover and the company is threatened by fines. And because obviously the government and Mr Spirtz are absolutely satisfied with this situation, you said to solve the problems in the co-chair. For two years you have done absolutely nothing about the OSH case and you are now coming to cover your omissions and that is what you are doing, you will allow me to say, in a stubborn and provocative way, because for months you have been talking to the OTAs of central Macedonia about a particular bill. You have probably received, Mr Minister, comments and remarks. And you're actually coming in at the last minute and depositing a different text to the General Accounting Office of the State. If that's not what it says, then I don't know what it's called. Let's see what the Minister suggests. It proposes the creation of two new public bodies, at the same time as I am sure, because the Minister is very diligent, that he knows that there is Regulation 1370/2007, which says that after 2019 it is a European obligation to open competitive procedures. So, automatically, the new public bodies are being 'dissolved'. So this is a substanceless firework and that's only to show that you're supposed to hit the private monopoly in Thessaloniki. And don't tell us that the New Democracy does not want the rationalisation of the OSH, because in its government in 2014 a rationalisation had begun and we had proposed and made a series of substantial reforms. Mr President, I mentioned all of this to show just one simple thing: the SYRIZA Government does not only devaluate STASY, which is, if you like, the subject of the question under discussion, but also the whole of urban transport both in Athens and Thessaloniki. That is why I have used the elements that completely degrade the argument that the government is trying to build, that for today's unprecedented in the history of urban transport, the former are responsible for the previous ones. It's not always the previous ones to blame. Those who govern today are also responsible, because the previous administrations - and I have shown this to you with very specific figures - have managed to achieve an operating surplus in SSH, which, as we have said before, relieved SSH in particular - of the need for state funding. On the contrary, it is your policy that has led OSCE, OSCE, STASH and "ATITAL MEASURES" to the superstition. This is the proud work of supposedly left-wing governance. The facts show that within two years you have led urban transport to a tide, a stumbling block affecting the non-preferentials. If that is left-wing policy, then words lose their meaning. It turns out once again that the ticket to populism is expensive and, unfortunately, the people pay for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, first of all I would like to thank you for your question. At least this is a matter for the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, unlike your colleague from the same county, Mrs Arabatzis, who asks questions about other ministries to me, but we will overcome this. Mr Karamanlis, you know that I appreciate you very much and that is why I would like to say that I will not answer you, but in the New Republic of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. The first comment I'd like to say is that you're scratching on the chop gum. In other words, what you did in the urban transport of Athens, you extended it to Thessaloniki as well. There are not enough years of scandal in Athens, we want all seventy of Thessaloniki, the OSTH. Whatever you want, we'll say. I would therefore like to thank the New Democracy, because you are giving me the opportunity to show in my answer so much what has happened to urban transport in the governments of the New Democracy and Democratic Incorporation and to show how the communication tactics of your party, with the help of always specific media, always attempts to disguise those who are exposed and at the same time to distort what our Government is doing. In fact, I wonder about the purpose of your question. Do you want to show what's happened all these years? Do you want to show that we have not changed administrations to establish a party state, as you accused us of, but to streamline urban transport? Do you want to show that the administrations you had in public bodies are your hard party mechanism? Do you also want to show that your space at best covered, lifted and maintained public-private violation groups? Do you want to point out, too, that the so-called reforms that your President has invoked are deplorable proposals for the preservation and cover-up of old-fashionedism? Do you want to prove with us that the only real reforms, the only deep areas and changes that the country needs, are made by the current government? I wonder. So if you want to show these you have made two mistakes: the first is the leadership of your party, in which it serves, and your party mechanism. The second is the institutional problem of questioning. You asked me two things in the question: the first is why I notified you of the answer of the Public Administration Inspector General and not of the controller of the SAS, who is a private person. And I answer the first question. Just, Mr Karamanlis, not to be part of the depreciation of the state institutions, not to contribute to the operation of hooding thefts of money, tickets and cards by specific persons, not to discourage inspectors who have done their work zealously in response to their duty, not to be a link to the maintenance chain of clericalism, the counter-reformation of reformists and the preservation of circuits. You know that internal auditors under the 2005 Act are private, do not belong hierarchically to any civil servants unit of the public enterprise, provide services with hired orders and do not acquire employee status or a dependent employment relationship, contrary to the institution of the Public Administration Inspectorate, where a person of known prestige with high scientific training and broad social acceptance is designated. But let us take things from the beginning, since we took over from the government, so that everyone can understand why you are insisting on this institutional blow, as if you were not watching all the media, but just what Piraeus is working on. Haven't you been informed about the guarding of a S.H.I.E.L.D. strain? Haven't you been informed about the ban on country S.H.I.E.L.D.'s? Didn't you watch on Saturday on Mrs Papadakou's "ALPHA" show what the inspectors said? Any of this? A channel we see near Piraeus?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u68	We see it all, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u69	No, we're talking now. Well, let's see what happened. First government SYRIZA - ANEL February 2015. The capital controls were imposed in the summer of 2015. You were blaming us at that time and until today that it was the government's fault for the 20 days of free movement to Athens and for the introduction of the free movement of the unemployed, which is a leading social policy and political sensitivity to us and to you deficits. In January 2016, the elections in September have taken place, if you remember them too, because you forget them - one year later, we changed the administration of the Athens public transport agencies. So we have replaced the administration of the STASY, which, as chairman and CEO, Mr Papathanases, was appointed by you. If you see the Minutes of the House and the publications of your very friendly media site, then you blamed us for the establishment of a party state because of the change in the administrations of the institution. A week later, Mr. Papathanases was placed by your new President, Mr. Mitsotakis, Director General of the New Democracy. In 2016, the search for the ticket theft was launched. In November 2016, in an investigation into the presence of the prosecutor, a second printing circuit for counterfeit tickets and forged regular tickets was detected. In January 2017, the first conclusion of the General Inspector for Public Administration was issued, which, in addition, reported a deficit of EUR 1.516.321.20. For the existence of the finding, I had spoken to the House at a timely question from the Member, Mr Amyras - it is here in Potami - on 9 February 2017. I did not put it in the Minutes out of respect for the justice procedures. I have even asked the Bureau, whoever wishes, to inform and read it. In February 2017, the Managing Director of S.S.S.S.S.S.H. was sent to me the report requested by you that had a deficit of EUR 16,981,10 exactly. The report was supposed to be classified as confidential. Written by the internal auditor, a private person, who is fully randomly working with SSH as of 1 November 2011. It's just luck, too. That is why the New Democracy today insists despite the revelations, persecution, condoms, the same fairy tale as the question we are discussing. I mean, it's not the millions you say. It's 16,000 and let go of justice. Justice did this investigation, we didn't do it. We didn't say anything before. We'll go to the announcements later and see the dates. Subsequently, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, the well-known media of the New Democracy rushed with reports on the communication cancellation operation of the report of the Public Administration Inspectorate General. Some people, in other words, were trying to mislead the public, as the Greek people today, that the deficit is not a million or more, but that it was a EUR 16,281. I'll give you all the relevant papers. You know the channels you're cooperating with. Mr President, I will give it to you so you don't have to trouble each other at the end of the day. It also concealed that this deficit resulted from incomplete data since they had been destroyed by a specific strain of the SSCE, when carrying out an audit. In other words, at the time when the Public Administration Inspectors went and checked, someone called and said: "Destroy information at these stations." And it's in that finding. I also note that a second conclusion was subsequently issued by the Public Administration Inspectorate, who confirmed the original, taking into account the report by the Internal Auditor of the SAC. When this was also done, then, the new contractor's covert operation of the well-known media in the New Democracy was creating a blurred picture of whether persecution had been carried out. In this effort, therefore, the Athenian News Agency was denounced and, as known and commonly known, me and the government for false news and a premise of persecution. I'll give you the papers. So that you do not have any questions in New Democracy, despite the fact that I tried to avoid it because of the judicial procedure, I am presenting the following to you: The findings of the Public Administration Inspector on January 31, 2017. I'll give it to you. The second conclusion of the General Inspector on 28 March 2017. The findings of the private internal screening officer sent me by the CEO on February 14 in between, that is, after the first conclusion. He's here, and you're gonna get what he says about the 16,000. My briefing on the exercise of criminal prosecutions. They're reported, Mr. Karamanlis, some persecutions. The prosecutions took place on 264-2017. The publications are on April 28th. How have I announced persecutions that had already been done? You should explain that to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u70	I'll answer you. You can also give us KPMG. Let's see the numbers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u71	We'll give you everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u72	It's SYRIZA's shop.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u73	From SYRIZA's store, we're really having a hard time finding. From your own shops, we give them the papers. Simple-handed!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u74	Let's see if the numbers agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u75	So listen, why should you be placed. One of the persecutions - because we will not cover anything - is your director-general. It is a duty intervention, Mr Karamanlis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u76	Flood!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u77	You're the ones talking of wounds. One million and, it's not a flood.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u78	Legal science says it's a flood.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u79	Yeah. Legal science.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u80	Are you condemning him before he goes to court?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u81	I say what persecution has been conducted and there is another question, and we will have and I will tell you why. Because then the findings of the "KPMG" came out, which is not a million. And it's all on Mr. Papathanassis's term of office. Don't cause above. So now that you have it all, and the dates and the unprecedented announcement of persecution and the denial - badly - of the "Athinian News Agency" and the complaint of my own and the Greek Government, we expect you to place yourself on how there were such circuits of confiscation of the Greek people's money in urban transport. Because it is not only the figures revealed within the audits, it is the lack of procedures and controls on public bodies, which allowed for the creation, development and maintenance of such circuits. Mr President, I have tabled two reports on the Minutes on 9-2-2017. One is 2012 and the other is 2014. These reports show the lack of procedures for rational management, which, if any, would not allow thefts of money or tickets. At that time, you and your partners were government and Mr. Papathanassis president and CEO. He knew it. He's your general manager. I'm going to testify these two again, so you don't have to say you didn't have them. One for 2012 and one for 2014. As you can see, you must respond to a political issue that has arisen. The President and CEO you had placed on the SSY, the current Director-General of the New Democracy during the Presidency of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, Mr Papathanases, knew about the two reports I'm presenting to you. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The New Democracy, whether alone or with others, has been a government over the years. She had and has executives in the public transport area. You've got full information. Do you not feel the need to tell us, to inform the Greek people, what do you mean when you say'reform', what do you mean when you say 'political responsibility'? So, for what was going on, you don't have political responsibility? Aren't you going to tell us something here? Do you not feel the need to apologise for the unreasonable things - I am not saying the things I do, I take the good news of your director-general? Between 2015 and the conclusion of the General Inspector of Public Administration, a number of topical questions have been tabled by members of your party, the New Democracy, from former Transport Ministers, as well as by officials of other parties, for ‘losses’ in public transport. Because what you said to us as deficits do not exist. The stock you said there was the subsidy under the table directly to the STAS and not through the OSCE, Mr Karamanlis. Let your ministers know better about how they did the trick.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u82	That's not true. You did this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u83	The state subsidy will not be baptised by a surplus. They were never surpluses. What a surplus occurs in urban transport worldwide - and in our country - is the State's subsidy. I say, however, because you have stopped asking timely questions about deficits, that you should start asking again about deficits, but not the government. Your executives in Piraeus ask about the deficits. Ask your former ministers, who have reached both urban transport and the country in the land, not only the economic crisis but also the crisis of the values of our society. The rest I'll tell you on my second. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u84	Mr. Kefaliannis, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u85	Mr President, I too should like to begin by wishing that there are no victims of the current earthquake in Lesvos and, of course, making an appeal to the government to do everything in its power to deal with all aspects of the issue as quickly as possible. Minister, from your answer you gave me the feeling that you might not understand why we are in control of Parliament today. So let me remind you again of the dates. On 2 May 2017, the Inspector General of Public Administration shall inform the press that, as of 26 April of the same year, a criminal prosecution has been carried out for twelve officials and officials of the FASY, on the determination of a financial deficit of EUR 1 million. You yourself - I think you also accepted it from your position - just a year ago, you were suggesting an estimated amount of about EUR 30 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u86	Yeah, I'll tell you about that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u87	Yes, but you're going to have to answer, Minister, that's why, because you know, from 1 million to 30 million is a huge distance. Even assuming that $1 million is true, this is subject to judicial investigation. Things for me, at least, are very simple. I would really like you to answer what these assessments are beyond the conclusion of the General Public Administration Inspectorate which speak of this amount. That is how we reach the amount of estimates that you make in this Chamber of EUR 30 million. There's a couple of things going on here. Whether there is any early control on your part or someone else you know but you hide it, and as a result you can cover even greater amounts of embezzlement or what we at least believe in, you are engaged in a very favourite game of your Government, that is, dispersing false news, where something will be left in the end. We are hearing about 30 million, we may end up with 1 million, it may be, in the end, a few thousand, and, anyway, there may be this bulwarks and this blurred picture to the public. A second matter. The news of the criminal prosecutions became known on April 27 through a publication of the state, undeniably, Athenian News Agency. So that's where we're talking about prosecution against executives and employees, but also with directors of the SAC. In fact, in the same way, your own statements are also hosted, where you neither deny nor confirm that a prosecution has been carried out, at least to directors of FASY, if I have read the post well. Of course, a good observer would assume that you obviously do not know and that you are not interfering with justice and that you have not even taken into consideration - Irrespectively - the case-file, in order to know who has been or have not been subject to criminal proceedings. The question, however, Mr Minister, is why you are asking for the resignations of the current members of the company's board of directors as soon as the news has been known.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u88	That your government has appointed you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u89	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u90	I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u91	You'll answer. But a question arises. It is an administration which about a year ago in Parliament, on your own initiative, has been accepted and then you ask for its resignation. I ask: do you know anything more about what this House is aware of? Do you have anything to add to today's administration, for example on the issue of the misappropriation of this amount by the SAC, which we do not know and which is why you are asking for their resignations? And if you don't ask for their resignations for this reason, then why did you do it? I think you should tell the Chamber. Are you not happy about the work that the administration is doing at the moment? Is the fact that the SCHF is now talking about deficits of around EUR 22 million? But there is another question, Minister. Are you asking for their resignations, precisely because it did not satisfy you with the finding of internal control, to locate the amount you have in your mind and, perhaps, would you like to arrive in order for these charges to exist against these persons? We ask you directly: Do you consider this finding valid, yes or no? If you do not consider it valid, then you will have to answer us, why these members of the administration remain in their place, which I imagine you are not surrounding with confidence or at least losing your trust in the past period and I repeat, it is an administration that has been proposed and accepted by the government majority, SYRIZA and Independent Greeks, on your own initiative. A third matter. You have rushed - and we will repeat it, you may be disturbed by the term - to discount with your statements that the finding is not only about officials, but specifically about the former administrations of the New Democracy and of the PASOK. In view of the fact that the General Inspection of Public Administration is a very specific period, in 2015, you are obviously referring to a very specific administration, which you mentioned in particular Mr Papathanassis. You referred, in fact, in person. You know, there's the presumption of innocence, and I think that should be respected by everyone. I ask you: do you have anything specific or know of - but not a case or a speculation - something specific to go to Mr Papathanassis? Oh, no. Do you have anything specific or do you know - but not a case or a speculation - something specific to go to Mr Papathanassis? Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u92	I did.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u93	I'd like you to state directly, if you have anything specific to say about the person in question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u94	But I did. I spoke in particular.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u95	I don't think he covered us. I would like, Minister, to stop this process of fading faces. I will repeat what our rapporteur said earlier, Mr Karamanlis. We want light everywhere - we state this in every categorical way that there is no doubt - in all administrations in all faces. But to prejudge the outcome of justice, to prejudge persecution and in common to intervene in this respect in the part of judicial authority, is something that, at least, should be outside our own political culture. Come on, really, just be political. I think you cannot withstand, Minister, the fact that the SPA from where it had a functional profitability has now come - we repeat it - in a deficit function. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. You cannot tolerate that based on operational profitability, SAS did not receive any state grant in those years, funding. In other words, it did not charge the Greek taxpayers with any euros, and while the SSY's revenues in the time you refer to increased gradually, unfortunately over the days of your own administration SYRIZA - ANEL we see a steady decline. Again there is the question - and there must be a point - the fact that it had ceased to receive this funding from the state funds, from the state corps in fact, unfortunately later on, while neither of the institutions were in the sight of the cyclone, has now entered an ultraperipheral chamber - as it is said - and we very much fear that it will lead to a depreciation and, in a way, your government will lead it to a misguided privatization at the end of the day as well as the state funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, too. Mr. Karastasis, according to the Rules of Procedure you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u97	I would like a little later, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u98	Good. We can move on and talk at the end. Mr Theocharopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u99	Ladies and gentlemen, urban transport, above all, affects the quality of life of each city and concerns all citizens without exception. Unfortunately, today in our country, we are declining. Their continuous deterioration is evident in the daily lives of the citizens. Citizens are afflicted. More and less means of transport are on the streets. We've given the particulars. The increase in the price of tickets at a time when their income has been dramatically reduced, while overtaxation and new taxes have tightened the loop in their necks, has also been accompanied by a deterioration in the quality of their work. You all remember what Mr. Tsipras said about raising the ticket to 1,40 euros for losing the whole wage. This has also been done with your negotiation with the negotiation of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. You also managed to increase tickets! Of course the budgets are recording deficits at the moment. This is a given and any communication policy cannot overthrow it. As far as the process of collecting and returning money to the CSCE from the disposal of tickets is concerned, we have called on you to give the name of legality directly responsible and first of all to provide clear answers for everything, and not constantly to the amounts you refer to. You have to give a clear answer. At this time when urban transport is falling apart, you need to solve the problems. Why are you government, Mr. Spirtzi, you are not opposition to continue plundering as you did before taking over in January 2015. Of course, legality is being sought and that is your responsibility at the moment too. But you are opposed to opposition. Once again, you do not answer specifically. You are opposed to the specific question of New Democracy, which, of course, also continues to be deeply attached to conservativeism and neoliberalism in this matter. We have also made clear our position and these horrific battles, which you are currently serving, SYRIZA and New Democracy, do not concern the progressive citizens, do not concern the citizens of the country. We are against both your left populism and a so-called reformist populism. Both one and the other are obstacles to the development of modern, efficient urban transport at a high level of service. What's your vision of urban transport? If you do not wish, as shown by your actions, their public or municipal nature, as is the case in most of the European capitals, to say it clearly, and I am referring to both SYRIZA and the New Democracy. Anyone who ultimately adopts a neoliberal model should say so without spins. We do not adopt any state-run and neoliberal models on this issue. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will say one more thing, excuse me, and I shall be coming to an end soon. You asked for it to be introduced - I am referring to an issue which has, in the last few years, dealt with citizens - placement of electronic analogue tolls everywhere, but charging for the use of this road is a national competence. Because you went to Luxembourg and mentioned it. We must make it clear that it is a national competence. That is the first issue. Our position is that we are in favour of analogue tolls. You, of course, have only informed SYRIZA Members about this again, because you have only feared the outcry from your party that the single analogue system will be applied on all motorways by the end of 2018. At the same time the current selection of your Government is the placement of the thirty tolls on the Egnatia Road. Why am I telling you this? Why are you conscious in your government, what did you say in the election and what are you doing? You guys say you won't pay, shouldn't people pay to the tolls, move on to that policy? This policy, do you think citizens don't understand it today? Finally, because I have listened to you, Mr Spirtzi, social policy, we can do it without producing deficits, you know. There is a way of not producing deficits and social policy to adopt. These are not conflicting. Because I have heard you say social policy, and let us produce deficits.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u100	What about me?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u101	You have contradicted the argument in this way. I tell you that we need social policy without deficits. Let's at least agree in here on it. Of course, because you referred to a battle of SYRIZA and New Democracy who has most stores in the press, and I am referring, above all, to what Mr Spirtz said, you have come to say that "from shops in SYRIZA we are having trouble finding". Are you seriously struggling to find stores in SYRIZA and you're just having trouble? Is that what you told the Greek Parliament today? Is that your press policy? Look, many times when you're actually talking to the government. That's why he needs attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u102	Well done, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u103	That is why we need to have the policy on all issues, which will promote the resolution of the problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u104	Please finish, Mr. Theocharopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u105	Mr President, I should like to close by saying that on the subject of Mytilini today, I hope that there will be no victims until the end and in the process of declaring and a brief recovery to the injured. Of course, it will be possible for the state to have direct activity in this matter so that there can be an appropriate response from the state at this difficult time when our fellow citizens live.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u106	Thank you. Mr Aivatidis has the floor for three minutes, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u107	I dare say that the current procedure would not take place if the accounting officer for the scandal of counterfeit tickets and the embezzlement of about 1,2 million euro in 2015 was not the current Director-General of the New Democracy, Mr Nikolaos Papathanases, who, of course, I would not say is illusory to the political events of the country. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] Already in 1989, the so-called "birth-government coup", "the dirty 1989", Mr. Papathanase was a member of the Greek Air Industry until 1991, from 1991 to 1993 he was Deputy Director General at Olympic Air Force and between 2005 and 2009 as CEO of the ESA. He was quoted by the Minister as having been prosecuted for breach of duty. With little experience in legal matters, I know that in such cases it is possible to exercise criminal prosecution for a moral automobile in a felony embezzlement. However, this is a matter of justice and I would say that it should not be the subject of political controversy and, above all, it should be transformed into an instrument of political diversion, such as today's question. Of course, we respect the presumption of innocence, while the New Democracy and other parties do not respect the presumption of innocence on the matter of Golden Dawn. Looks like we're more democrats than they are. And indeed, I do. What is interesting is this: in both the question tabled by Mr Constantine Karamanlis on 24 February 2017 and the question document dated 15-5-2017, there is a key word on the first page towards the end, the word 'final'. The word "finally" is like New Democracy adopting that the authentic and true finding is this conclusion of the internal control of the SACS. However, the New Democracy officials should have read the press releases, which were published by the Office of the Public Administration Inspectorate, in which it is expressly stated that this conclusion, the internal conclusion of the CSCE, is perforated - and I would say it is illegal - because the OSCE is detained in a form of autonomy, using some non papers, as well as a possibility that it gave to the blame, a time window, in order to alter data. These three press releases, which I would like to submit for the Minutes, make it obsolete that this internal SSY conclusion has a covert character. And I think that the current administration of the SAC is accountable for that, too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Aivatidis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned press releases, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I, too, would like to express my support for the people of Mytilini who have been tested by the entrepreneur. Information says the St. Panteleimon's troupe in Plomari has fallen. It would be a good thing if the state, having faced the acute situation, were to restore the dome, as well as to take the appropriate steps concerning everything that is good for the world where it is currently being tested. Finally, I would like to refer to the following: the Russian Federation is celebrating Russia's Day, the Russian national holiday, and it is an official holiday in the Russian state. Golden Dawn congratulates the Russian nation on the occasion of Russia's Day, and points out in every direction that it is of fundamental value to launch a genuine and sincere geopolitical shift towards the Orthodox, homogeneous and friend Russia, which is historically proven to have contributed to Greece and the freedom of Greece. Remind only two names, of Longer Petrovic Hayden, of the Russian Admiral in the Navy of Navy in 1827, as well as General Ivan Ivanovic Dibic, who even accepted, that because of him and his seat in the Peninsula of Aymos he managed to win his independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Christos Katsotis of the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr President. On the occasion of the earthquake in Mytilini, we want to express our support for all residents and once again, Minister, our concern and the demand for the country's earthquake shield, as well as for anti-military protection. They are projects of immediate priority concern to people's own lives and to protect them from extreme natural phenomena. As a party, we have tabled these requests in various ways. For this particular question, of course, because time is not enough to talk about the policy pursued by the government, but also the Civic Opposition to transport, we want to limit ourselves to a number of issues. As a JRC, we believe that the issue of tickets and deficits attributed to mismanagement or fraud must be investigated immediately, clarified and attributed to those who have them. We also want to point out, for the Greek people to know as a whole, that in the name of combating the corruption of the scandals, restructuring, adaptations, in the state sector, to the economy, which will facilitate the activity of large groups and not just. The promotion of privatization also requires the acceptance by at least one section of public opinion as a solution to a problem. And a siege ram to promote this policy is the propaganda that claims mismanagement, corruption - not that there are no, they may exist - and they are presented as the cause of a necessary resolution. The propaganda of the urban media is intended to highlight the privatization policy as the household solution, which will solve the permanent problems of businesses currently in the public sector. It turns out throughout this period that the promotion of liberalisation, not only does not have a positive impact on the containment of transport costs, but has led to it and led to its evacuation. The tickets, their increase, they're confirming what we're talking about. The capitalist way of producing, as is reflected daily and in all aspects of people's lives, has an absolute impotence to satisfy the people's needs. State-owned enterprises, even when operating under a monopoly scheme, do not offer services at a low price, since they actually exist to ensure extended capital reproduction and more or less clearly operate on private economic criteria. The JRC is perpendicular to the liberalisation policy. It supports the need to move workers, pensioners, the unemployed, self-employed from public public transport, safe and cheap, with a solution also to the major problems of workers in them. We call on workers to associate themselves with the class movement in their claims for collective labour agreements, for wages, for employment relationships, for insurance rights and for a number of other issues pertaining to every family, every aspect of their lives. On this occasion, Minister, I had a discomfort today with another member of the SAC, who was beaten up and fired two days ago - you know that - I imagine - by the CEO and the chairman of the SACC, because he refused to degrade his services, because of their transfer and because he revealed various things within the service that are inconsistent with the principle of good operation. We would like you to investigate this further. Of course, it has nothing to do with the political body that we are expressing, nor with your own, but there cannot be an injustice against a man who resisted, reacted to certain things that are incompatible with the principles of the proper functioning of a business.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos from the Independent Greeks has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr President. I really am surprised why this question has been asked. I want to invoke my experience. Thirty-seven years I worked in public hospitals and the CSR reports concerning officials made by officials serving in the hospital, we never counted them. We thought them to be unworthy, because Honestly, I do not understand how it is possible to challenge Mrs Papaspyrou's opinion, which is very clear. We're talking about a huge difference. Another EUR 16,000 and another EUR 1,166,000. It is also the auditors, who raise this difference to 3,7. I'd say here it's a splendid splendid splendid field of glory. I don't blame if a party once appoints someone and he comes out of the carpet. I do not believe that it is the President of the Party or the Party as a whole. Here we should have a common approach for corruption-throwing people who have a very good CV that cannot really deny them a position, but that at some point proves to be the epilepsy of their duty. Honestly, I believe that this is not the right point of confrontation, when we now have tangible elements that cannot be questioned about this issue. I really think this is a bad time for the honourable Member. I don't know what he's trying to do or fix. I, in fact, respect the innocence of the former CEO, but prosecution has already been exercised. I want to believe that we need to be more careful about the good of the community as a whole when it comes to corruption. I'm not talking about some vague cases that may be, maybe not. We're here to say that this case is getting eyes on. Twelve employees are confiscated. How did the papers go down? In other words, anyone who reads the history has no doubt about what happened and swamped the universe into that company about what was happening with the word "underground". Look and you'll understand what I'm saying. I think Mrs Papaspyrou, but also the auditors, are in the right direction and not the internal audit that took place at EUR 16 000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Mrs Theodora, from the Centroz Union, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u113	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u114	Minister, you can talk later. You want to talk now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u115	A clarification I want to give so that there are no misunderstandings.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u116	The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr. Spirtzis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u117	I mentioned in my first speech that it was 1,516,000. It's an arithmetic, it's a typographical error. I mean, it's 1,166,000. And as far as the ten minutes are concerned, there's no mistake.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Big Housekeeper, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I should like to say on behalf of the Centrons that we support the tested people of Mytilini for the injury of the brain. Let us hope that there will be no victims and great material damages and that the state will immediately try to restore them. We must not forget that it is also a tourist season and there must be immediate restoration so that these people too can work. Let's hope everything's going to be okay. With regard to the constant transport scandal, it is another wound for our country. The conclusion of the General Public Administration Inspector is a catapult. In fact, it mentions an unjustified ‘hole’ of more than EUR 1 million for 2015 alone. Also, according to the findings of the sworn auditors, who had been under control for the period 2011-2015, there was a difference in revenues of EUR 3,7 million. On the contrary, we read that the conclusion of the internal control of the CSCE mentioned a difference of only EUR 16,981 from the tickets. And here is where the communication war between New Democracy and the SYRIZA-ANEL conflict begins, as today's Civic Opposition obviously disputes the huge amount, discovered by the Inspector General of Public Administration, that he has been misled, while on the other hand, the government is attempting to bring this whole sinful story to the New Democracy period. But do you know what the real conclusion is? That once again we see that there was probably another agency, which remained uncontrolled, and another case of economic scandal. The only thing for sure is that it is even more burdensome for the Greek public and the total economic situation and the image of the country. The Greek people, gentlemen of the government and of the counterpopulation, are not interested either in the atrocities between you and the old-fashioned kind of logic. It only cares about a real change of attitude and zero tolerance to such phenomena. I do not, of course, know where the investigation of Greek justice, which is under way, will end up, whose work is independent, and we expect it with great interest. But, in any case, any missing revenues for the STD will be certain that sooner or later, they will be clarified and surfaced. I, for my part, would just like to highlight a very worrying issue. In a recent interview, the Inspector General for Public Administration, Maria Papaspyrou, said for a moment: "As soon as our inspectors have gone to investigate, some of those who are now being persecuted have destroyed the evidence that existed at all stations. The only three stations were caught by the inspectors, and they took them, but the rest of them were destroyed. The issuers were ordered to destroy all the evidence.’ I'm tabling the above-mentioned interview for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Theodora Megalonikou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] If all these serious complaints apply, then we are probably talking about a structured criminal organisation, which is methodically covering its tracks. These phenomena are no longer tolerated. As a Union of Centres, we are always against such reasonable and every attempt to deceive the Greek people, who are literally fighting for their survival, and we must move with absolute transparency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, my colleague. Mr George Mavrotas from the river has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to begin by expressing our support for the victims, the earthquake affected in the north-eastern Aegean, which hit mainly Lesvos and Chios. Let's just say there's no room for micro-participation on these issues. It must be said that in general, the state machine was quite effective in its reaction and we hope that there will be no further victims or other consequences. Also, to wish for good success for children who give all-Greek and somehow would be upset by this. Let's go to that particular question. Time is too short. I will not go into what the Minister has said. I will simply say that in general the figures in this case, which are very stubborn and do not give in to populism, have the basic reason. SPA in 2014 had sales of 129.7m euros and in 2015, 103.8m euros, i.e. EUR 26m less. Some of them also increased. From EUR 2,7 million in 2014 to EUR 32 million in 2015. What's that for? Not in the scandals, however, as the Minister, who said to the House, Mr Hatzidakis' timely question, on 16 June 2016 - a year ago - that the size of the scandal investigated by the General Inspector for Public Administration, which has a significant impact on the group's revenues, other estimates say that it is over 20 million euros and more than 30 million euros. Evidently, he said that to cover the big difference in income with a few big words. Scandals, of course, need to be investigated. And all those who prove to have misappropriated or even those who did not do their work well and the checks that were due must be punished. However, the Public Administration Inspector General, Mrs Papaspyrou, in her statement, speaks of a loss of revenue of EUR 1,156 million. With Mr. Danellis we asked a similar question on 31 March 2017. This is what KPMG was mentioned by my colleague from the New Democracy. So, where are these 20 to 30 million euros you call, Minister? When some arguments can be quantified, they either prevail or collapse. And in your case, they're probably falling apart. The other is this 20 to 30m euros hole. The hole is that you have focused a climate of "I don't pay" on the passenger audience either by relaxing controls or by the tolerance and the impunity of those who were vandalizing and destroying cancellation machines. The attitude that has been inspired is that only fools pay, because whoever wants to pays may not pay. However, if everyone were to pay, the ticket price could also fall so as to balance the costs, which are about constant. Finally, those who paid became much less. And it's natural that when you close your eyes to the unwilling to contribute. This is the great fall of some 25 million in revenue. This is not the first time that this is happening. We saw it on highway toll too. And with PPC we had about the same phenomena. With the alibi 'to help undignified people', you are generalizing a situation and creating strategic malicious payers and strategic jams, because, firstly, there are no control mechanisms, secondly, there is no desire to activate them and thirdly, these control mechanisms are sometimes targeted. Indeed, on the occasion of this, I would like to ask you at what stage, in relation to the electronic ticket, which is going on with great delays. He came in February. It'd be full-grown in April. Now, we're going for August. The foreshadows of these four months will be quite big. Also, what is the government's plan and what does it intend to do about the damage to the various machines, such as those that took place yesterday in Ceramic? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I don't have any more time. I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. Generally, to say that S.S.S.H.S.'s services are valuable to the citizens of the city. We need to look after them as an eye daughter. In no case should we let them degenerate. So do not cultivate the idea that in public transport anyone who wants to pay, because in the short term we will simply not have public transport. And this will hurt the weaker ones more. The quality index of public transport is an indicator of culture, quality and development for a city, for a country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Apostle Karastasis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we would also like to express our support for the inhabitants of Lesvos and Chios, who are affected by the earthquake. Let us hope that there will be no problems in their day-to-day operation. Today's debate brings to the fore the serious issue of Athens' many urban transport. I think, however, that on this occasion, the debate also concerns Thessaloniki. I really do not understand the question of the New Democracy. Any citizen of Athens and asking two, three, five years ago, before a crisis, even for the degree of response of urban transport to their demands, would always receive the same answer: Negative, nostalgic, despite the enormous efforts made by all workers in the public transport sector. We have seen citizens abstain - at least as far as they could - from the use of public transport, so that we even have public transport, which is economically problematic, without being able to support social policies, such as the favourable economic treatment of vulnerable groups and excessive use of private cars, so that both the deterioration of traffic problems primarily in the centre and the environmental burden are brought about. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, this was the tip of the iceberg. What we saw, just like the whole world. In the last two years, however, we have been able to see the submerged part of the iceberg that the people have trusted us with for the operation of the state. We have seen that we have inherited a public transport system full of pathogens and deficits that exceeds EUR 9 million to EUR 100 million. We have inherited a public transport system which has been moving rapidly towards the path of depreciation under the responsibility of the previous governments and administrations. The previous administrations had not made any provision to replace the older bus fleet, when everyone knew that after 2019 they would not be able to move half as much as they did due to past times, as well as environmental constraints. A new bus has been launched in Athens for almost ten years. Personnel recruitment has not been carried out for years, with the result that hundreds of drivers and technicians have been missing today from OSH and OSH, which is causing problems in operating the services. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] On the contrary, we have received a plan for a substantial disorganisation of urban transport, which, when we took over the government, the rental of workers, you will remember these, the headhunters, the compulsory movements of workers and their effective privatisation. This and much more can be said about the situation we have received in urban transport. And because, Mr President, when there is bad administration, there is also financial mismanagement, let us go to this part, which Mr Spirtz mentioned. As early as the end of 2012, the previous administration of SASY had given the mandate for checks at various metro stations and other public transport facilities. The findings are well known. I'm not going to mention this. I want to dwell on the effort we are doing, reflecting our view and our vision of urban transport. We have undertaken savings operations of 8.5m euros, involving procurement costs through electronic tenders, cost of service contracts through the development of cooperation with other public bodies, such as the Hellenic Police for the protection of stations. We are acting so that OSCE, STASH and OSH have common headquarters, common services, common accounting, common efforts, procurement and can achieve economies of scale that can help to ensure the sustainability and development of public transport. The paper ticket is gradually replaced by the smart card. We are in search of financial instruments from the European Union in order to renew the old fleet of vehicles and plan to restructure the Athens Transport Charter. The telematics, which has been successfully launched and implemented since last year, and the electronic ticket, are two modernisation and strategic projects. These two PPP projects have been received with many problems and painful efforts have been made to unlock and accelerate their implementation. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot remember the cries of the Anti-Population when we replaced the many sins that have been committed to the previous administration of the SAC. In the committee that we examined the OSCE, S.S.A. and OSH proposed, then also now a MP and former Minister of the New Democracy, he told on 16-12-2015 that these companies are divested in deficits. They say that poor SYRIZA has come to unbundle the transport and install a party state, because we have replaced Mr Papathanassis, who, as we say, has not been unemployed, became Director-General of the New Democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, if it were a SYRIZA official in some region of the country, who had acted like this, you can imagine right now what would happen across the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u124	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u125	They ironed us as boxers, because in the summer of 2015 with the Capital Controls we gave for fifteen, twenty days free movement to the citizens of Athens. This cost 10 million, which at the bottom of the scripture, no one put it in their pocket, nor was there any supply at a higher price.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u127	Wait a minute, I'll close, Mr. President. What can we expect from those who have criticised us, because we have allowed the unemployed to move freely, who have paid more precisely than all of them a crisis that they have not created, but who have been imposed on them by those who are now targeting them? We came to serve the country unselfishly, putting our vision to the service of the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u128	Mr President, can I have the floor for a second?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u129	Of course, Mr Katsotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u130	Apart from the major problems, Minister, workers, the lack of staff infrastructure, etc., I must inform you that the U.S.S.A. has granted the cleaning work to a contractor who, while normally paying him, does not pay the workers. It's a complaint we make here officially.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u131	S.H.I.E.L.D.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u132	They're from S.H.I.E.L.D., but they're working at the S.I.E.L.D. We believe that he must go away, withdraw the agreement, the tender and the workers must be paid immediately. I think you should take care of that, Minister, as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mr Katsotis. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-four students and students and four educational attendants from the 11th Municipal School of Alexandroupolis. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers for Administrative Reconstruction, Foreign and Finance have today tabled a draft law on "Structuring the Memorandum of Cooperation on the National Frequency Initiative (2015-2018)" under the programme: "The French language in international relations". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. The honourable Member of the New Republic, Mr Constantine Karamanlis, has the floor. Please, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr President. I have listened very carefully to the parliamentary representatives, but in particular to the Minister, Mr Spirtzi. Minister, this is not a controversy. This is where we say something clear. We're gonna let justice do her job? Because we have different findings. You may claim that the internal control carried out by the SAC does not satisfy you. That, however, whether we like it or not, is done in all the CEC countries and is done in the countries of the European Union. So don't deceive the checks, because today we have a lot of different numbers. Finally, I would like to ask something very simple: The damage for 2015 and 2016 and 2017, the major damage to urban transport, is our fantasy, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u135	Yeah, it's your fantasy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u136	It's not our fantasy, because I've submitted it to you in the Minutes, and you admitted it on 16 June. In other words, here we have to agree on the basics and speak the same language. Eventually, we didn't get an answer. You said in 2016 that the damage from tickets is 20 million to 30 million. What's the millions? Are they bruises? So what's the damage? Will Parliament decide? Oh, no. It will be decided by Greek justice. And I can't figure out why we have to crash here, and we have to let justice do its job. And whoever, Mr. Spirtzi, put his hand in honey, is sure that the New Democracy will condemn him and make sure of that. But if he has not put it and been vindicated, I would also like you to commit yourself in this Chamber that if this man whom we have expelled, or if any man of the twelve indictees is acquitted, we will accept the presumption of innocence. The prosecutions were persecuted. That's a reality. So should we wait for final decisions? We are talking about a loss of revenue, honourable Members: "KPMG" 291 million for the period 2014-2015, internal audit of 16,000, General Inspector 1.150,000. Can I tell you what the losses were from the increase in VAT? It was 10 million euros. May I tell you what was the loss of revenue from the free movement of July? Dear Parliamentary Representatives, it was not only the unemployed who were then moved. Everyone was moved. Tourists from "Eleftherios Venizelos" in Athens came free. Do you know what that cost? That cost 9.5 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u137	That's good. On foot, would they come?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u138	Is that good? The Greek people are paying for this, however, today, because when you have these huge revenue losses, the state budget will come to cover this. And, finally, this is a reality and should not be lightly said: and what, then, has happened for 19-20 million? "That's good," says Mr. Xydakis, who moved tourists free of charge. Let me disagree with this position. To close, I'd like to talk and say two things, since I have a little time for OSTH. And here, Minister, I sincerely speak to you that I have no desire to come to political confrontation. But I sincerely want to ask a question: there is Regulation 1370/2007. You know that according to him it is excluded - it is a specific conversation - Athens, the urban transport of Athens. You come and say you'll make two public bodies. We disagree with that. In any event, the competitive procedures are opened in 2019. Your department for two years, as far as I know, has done nothing about it. Question: Will you get an extension? What's going to happen to OSTH? When in 2019, the process will be opened and others will be able to participate, these two public bodies will be done, Minister? These are issues which we must finally discuss in a serious and not political manner. Because the state in a favoured state keeps going. And you may not be a minister, be another minister, be another government, even your own government, but if we know what the consequences of this decision will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u140	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u141	Sure. You have the floor for a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr President. I wanted to ask Mr Karamanlis to clarify and place himself clearly and clearly, if he thinks that this internal control of SSY, who is condemned as a perforator, in his opinion, overhears the institutional role of the Public Administration Inspectorate-General.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u143	Did I say that? We will not have a dialogue now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u144	Mr. Aivatidis, we're out of order now. Mr Karamanlis, do not answer or answer out to my colleague, so that we do not violate the Rules of Procedure. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u145	Thank you very much, Mr President. From the start of the New Democracy MPs' speech, we have made progress. For example, they admitted prosecutions have been persecuted. Please also inform the media that support you to publish it. Please honestly, because here I have a series of publications from inside that are near your neighborhood, Piraeus, which do not even publish. I'll submit the relevant documents to the Minutes. I will also submit to the minutes documents on the role of the Inspector General, the Internal Auditor and the law passed on to read them. You'll be telling the truth like a new Republic slowly. You have many years at your disposal in Opposition. You'll recognize your mistakes and make your self-criticism. Ladies and gentlemen, you tell us that we are oppositioning the opposition and that it is not always the opposition to it. Your Honor, friend of the Democratic Association, Mr Thanasis, you have supported these governments we are now discussing as a space for their administrations. So listen to the situation we found. I've got pictures of the OSCE warehouses we'll testify to. That was the picture. Here are the movies that were coming along with the ink, here are the returning tickets, here are the boxes, which when they were opened by the inspectors found another ticket number that they returned, here find various other items weighed as returning tickets, here are the well-known rolls. Take all these pictures to rejoice in the rule of the country and the so-called populism you have denounced us. If that is populism, we are populists and we are grateful for the complaints. So this is the picture we have received. We have seen these before in the Greek Parliament and it is good to read them, now that we are giving them the findings, so that you do not have any gaps at all. We also give you the "KPMG", which you hear what he says, because you also use a few phrases from it. For the "Eleftherios Venizelos" airport you said they were moved in July, supposedly, free of charge tourists. There the report by KPMG, Mr Karamanlis, says it needs further investigation. Because at this station a surplus has been found. I mean, there they sold a thousand tickets, they returned the two hundred, and they didn't give OSCE the eight hundred tickets, but they gave it more. They gave not a few, but a lot more! This, then, relates - probably, because we are neither prosecution authorities, police, inspectors, nor justice - to the circuit of counterfeit tickets that has been caught and possibly more. Because it is very difficult to find an employee to give 800 euros, for example, and to give 2 000, don't you think? It's a lot bigger than numbers. I call it schematically. Also, from what you have read, I had replied that the estimate we make may be 20 million, may even 30 million with other estimates. That's an estimate. Do you know when we'll have the appreciation? When he enters with good - and is not far away, it is very close, despite the reactions of circuits inside and outside urban transport - the e- ticket. Mr Mavroy, there is a delay, because we want to serve exactly the terms set by the Independent Personal Data Authority, there is no doubt that anyone can watch where they are going. It's a constitutional principle. We must ensure that. They must all be convinced - both us and the citizens and the whole world - that we cannot watch the card from the online ticket, where Spirtz is moving, where he goes and whom he is going with. I imagine you all accept that. Besides, it's an independent authority. There's a few numbers in there. Let's see the numbers, to do your assessments too, 1,156 million euros are the deficits for 2015 only what the audit of the General Inspector for Public Administration found. He had evidence at three stations. To the others, they ruined them. I don't know if you understand that. The other seven go bye-bye, the evidence ruined!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u146	Did New Democracy destroy them?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u147	To understand the "bulk" that existed in urban transport, the money from one station to the other, and until the central fund was moved with bags. Go bag with money from a station without numbering and without certificates numbered, sealed. It was a piece of paper. You change it after a circuit like the one found. Go to the next station, next station, etc., he ended up at the main station at the Defense Station, which all accidentally didn't have a TV system. The main fund had no closed surveillance circuit! We gave you both 2012 and 2014 reports that identified these issues. They said how tickets were returned as tickets and destroyed as pounds of paper. That's why bruises were found inside, stones, and I don't know what else and they were weighed that way. That's what Mr. Papathanasis knew. One report at least ordered it to be done, and they gave it to him. We didn't even talk about who put the finger on honey or who didn't put it. Others will find these. We say that we want to hope that Mr Papathanasis has done nothing of this. But you have political responsibility, what about it? He's your CEO. For Christ's sake! If there was no Director General, but a member of SYRIZA in Alexandroupolis who was children, there would be a resurrection here. If the former Minister of Culture goes to ask for a martini, they'll take him out with what's said. Let's go down. The first judge I met is Mr. Papagelopoulos and I met him in the government when we became ministers. You were telling me that I made an intervention in an engineer as former president of the TEI, to understand it. Did I intervene in justice too? If I've really done this, Mr. Karamanlis, what can I tell you? I don't recognize myself, having such cowardices.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u148	Minister, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u149	How can I conclude, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u150	And what can we do, Minister? The question is terms. It's not a free conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u151	They're fighting for the answers. You spoke of two issues. One is for bus insurance coverage. That's not the point. Consider that you were paying insurance cover for buses that weren't moving and were broken. You also said about a consultation with the municipalities of Central Macedonia for OSTH. I am therefore going to give a combination of answers. Mr Kattotis, you are absolutely right that sometimes when we have such phenomena, it is an alibi and we go to other policies and logic. With our own government, it will be an alibi to go to public urban transport in Thessaloniki, because that is what has to be done. It is the second large metropolitan city center in Greece and we pay it multiplely than in Athens that these phenomena occur. So don't tell us what we're going to do. We are going to do public transport both in Athens and Thessaloniki, which will provide a large Community - qualitative and quantitative - work. As regards OTAs, the mayors of Central Macedonia, we sent the bill to the General Accounting Office of the State, to be ready to testify if necessary. But, Mr. Karamanlis, where did you find out?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u152	The Ottas themselves accuse you of that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u153	No, that's not what I'm saying. Where did the Ottas find out? Mr. Kizoglu, your member, where did he find out? I'll tell you where they found out. He said it at the Egnatia Day. Kyizoglou said: "We have received the non-party mechanisms in the state..." - which has never been exploited by the New Democracy - "...from the 25th address of the General Accounting Office of the State". Rejoice with Mr. Kizoglou and any conscientious employee in the 25th Directorate of the General Accounting Office of the State gives classified drafts of law to Mr. Kizoglou and to the officials of the New Democracy. After all, it seems who has exploited the state for his party, whether his name is Papathanassis, Kizoglu, or 25th address of the General Accounting Office of the State.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u154	Minister, you're done. You've been talking for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u155	What am I supposed to do? I'd like to say...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u156	I know, it burns us. You say interesting things, but there are limits to the debate. What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u157	You're right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u158	We'll ask you further questions, Minister, to answer us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u159	Ask me as many questions as you want. I'm finishing up, saying something, to get in touch with. Nor are we going to follow you to justice, nor are we going to follow you. What we are doing is creating that safe climate in control mechanisms and in justice, to reveal the misery that has been taking place for so many years. We're not going to cover anybody either before or from now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kefaliannis, you have asked the floor for an intervention. You can talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u162	Mr. Kefaliannis, if you please, you can get a copy. If you want the photos, I'll give them electronically upload them to the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u163	I'll take it, Minister. We'll have time. Of course, I'll take the pictures too, why not? However, Mr Minister, it is very good to create impressions, but you have not answered a number of questions that both our rapporteur, Mr Karamanlis, has raised you and I again in my protagonists. Mr President, I think that you are politically out of the question: I told you earlier that a year ago, in this Chamber, you threw millions into the air, as if they were really towels. You were talking about 20m euros, about 30m euros as a loss of revenue for transport. Today, at least you have reached the sum of EUR 1 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u164	For 2015 at the three stations.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u165	So, do you repeat that you think the revenue losses are EUR 30 million, as you said in June 2016? You'll answer your tritology.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u166	I don't have one. I used it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u167	I will give you the floor, Minister, just not for another quarter, because otherwise we are lost.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u168	Minister, you know, the difference and distance from EUR 1.1 million to EUR 30 million, I think it's colossal.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u169	You're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u170	You have not answered this question either. Why are you asking for the resignations of the members of the administration which you have appointed about seven, eight months ago? My colleague from SYRIZA a little - very much said that it is a very good administration or, anyway, that we badly blamed her at that time when she was in committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u171	Oh, no. That's all we said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u172	We don't blame them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u173	You will answer, Minister. Let me finish, one or two minutes. I want to say once again to all the tons that we are not a court here. It is good to have a political dialogue, but, unfortunately, and today the government has failed to personally address certain individuals, to imply accusations or, at least, to know certain criminal offences. I think in this case again you're making a political slip. Let go of justice. We repeat, Minister, that there must be light everywhere. That's not funny. We call it the New Democracy. None of us are going to hear the opposite on this matter. You said about the criminal prosecutions. We never said that there were no criminal prosecutions on executives or members of the SAC. What we have said is not to prejudge the procedures. Because you know very well - you will have been informed - that some criminal prosecutions have been committed some months ago, some have been carried out very recently. You, too, had given insinuation to faces, you had probably precedented that criminal prosecutions would be carried out, and these criminal prosecutions have just been carried out. So, not trying to blur the waters. I shall conclude, Mr President, with something that the Minister has not answered. Revenues from urban transport collapsed over your own days. Make a hopeless effort - he made a hopeless effort and his dear colleague from SYRIZA - say it was one week's fault with the capital controls, it was the free tickets we have for tourists. The substance is one: revenues are constantly decreasing, and they are reduced over your own days. And in that, unfortunately, you did not give any answer. I expect you, even in your tritology, to give specific answers, and to be more specific, because I think that is something of interest to the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you don't have a tritology, but I'll give you three minutes. But, three minutes, please too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u175	Mr President, thank you very much. So I reckon: it is a hundred and fifty-six in 2015, three stations. I don't know if you understand. The total number of stations is three. By another methodology, KPMG makes 3,7 out of 2011 to 2014. The evidence has been lost, KPMG says for 2015, and only for December. KPMG confirms the findings of the Inspectorate-General from its December figures. And we have the following nice things.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u176	30 o'clock, though?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u177	I'll get you at 20 and 30 and 40. I won't find it. I say an estimate that exists. I want you to read the minutes, honestly. Thanasis did it before. For others the estimate is over 20 million and for others it is over 30 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u178	Who are the others?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u179	They're executives of the Ministry. This is still the assessment, having regard to the movement made by urban transport every day, of the social policy that is being implemented and of where the revenues of urban transport should be taken into account. But don't you worry about the other thing I'm telling you? Are you actually going to deal with it at all? Ticket counterfeit circuits were found.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u180	Can we talk about it? It's not about justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u181	But it's all your time. Is it now? Suddenly, there were factories that were typically fake tickets from a competition New Democracy had made? I'm sorry, I mean! There was a surplus in 2015 that you had your own administration there at some stations! I'm talking about a surplus, you know?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u182	The House, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u183	Not if you understand. I don't know. Whoever we ask here understands. Whoever we ask!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u184	We understand that, but justice is investigating this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u185	So justice will do its job. No intervention has been made by this government by justice. By others he had in the past. Revenue didn't collapse. We had less revenue in 2015, for we had twenty days, perhaps a little more, free access to Athens. The revenues didn't collapse. You will leave creative accounting in urban transport. Whenever you want to call the CEO of OSCE, the inspectors, whoever you want, to see that even the subsidisation of the Greek state has been reduced. To have an accurate estimate of how much losses are, you'll have a little patience by autumn, which will have the online ticket in full operation. As planned, a test operation, Mr Mavrota, will be in place since June. That's what we're trying to do, despite the delay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u186	August.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u187	No, in June.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u188	We're keeping this!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u189	They may not be the banks ready, but we can move it differently. And by the way, I come to two other things you asked me, you and Mr. Katsotis. First of all, we have ordered individual contracts, because we had the same phenomena in the OSE. The SAC has not proceeded - if it has not proceeded - through the SAAP to the necessary tenders. You also asked why we asked for the resignations of the members of the board of directors. Listen to me. We don't hide behind our finger. We had to do this when the Minister responsible was informed of whom officials were involved and that there is also persecution - obviously not on these issues, perhaps for a bad manoeuvre he made in connection with internal control - for the CEO. It's also been persecuted by the current CEO, and I don't care if it's small or large. We are not a new Republic. We will ensure, whether we have put the administrations in place or you, the absolute way to get light on both of them and everywhere. So I, as the Minister responsible, had to put their resignations to the Ministry's authority and order the movement of certain officials or the availability of the posts they had. Instead of congratulating us, you're asking us? And you moved that there are internal problems in SYRIZA, through the specific...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u190	Minister, all right, we're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u191	That is what has happened, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Thank you very much. It was a very nice and civilized conversation. Be well! The debate on Question No 26/15-2017 on the control of the process of collecting and returning funds to the SAC is hereby terminated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-12-S1-commons.u193	With the consent of the House at 20.00 the sitting on Thursday, June 15, 2017, at 9.30, on the subject of the House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, a debate on topical questions.
